ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u1	The next item is the public finance policy debate for 2018. The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u2	Madam President, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the orientation of public finances, which I have the honour to open on behalf of the Government on the basis of the report submitted to you last week, provides me with an opportunity to explain how we will achieve the ambitious objectives that we have set ourselves at the request of the President of the Republic. The observation is clear: too much expenditure, so too much tax; Too much deficit, so too much debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u3	Too many ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u4	Our road map will be as soon as possible. At the end of the quinquennium, we will have reduced the burden of public spending on national wealth by three percentage points, an unprecedented effort by which we will be able to reduce the burden of our compulsory levies by one percentage point, i.e. EUR 20 billion as of next year, and simultaneously reduce the deficit and debt by two and five percentage points respectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u5	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u6	The message that Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, and I myself would like to address you, ladies and gentlemen, is that our objectives are linked. More specifically, everything is linked to reducing the burden of our public spending. Because we will reduce the weight of our public spending – which currently stands at 56.4% of GDP, the European record – we will be able to reduce taxes and charges, we will free the purchasing power of our citizens and we will free the company. Because we will reduce the burden of our public spending, we will reduce the deficit and hence the debt, which is nothing but a deferred tax on future generations. The public finance policy debate that brings us together today provides the Government with an opportunity to unveil the road map that will enable it to achieve all these objectives that will make the quinquennium a reality. First of all, we will make the original finance bill more sincere, as I have already had the opportunity to say in the debate on the 2016 Budget Settlement Bill. The double observation made by the Court of Auditors in its audit of the latter and in its report obliges us to take urgent measures, on which I will not return, in order to keep France's word and to better implement the 2017 budget, which is due to present at the end of the year – the European Commission will determine this in April – a deficit of less than 3% of GDP. At other times, faced with such challenges, others would have opted for an amending finance law increasing taxes and charges. They would have filled the hole discovered when they arrived, but they would not have realized any savings. Others would have activated the lever so convenient to carry forward charges to the following year, which we suffer year after year and which, according to the Prime Minister's expression, consists of "pushing the big ball", that is to say, to charge the bills by the others. These are not the choices we make. We choose the responsibility of doing everything in our power to reduce public spending in a regulatory way. Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that this first budgetary act is a heavy one; That's why I made the choice to come and present the decrees in advance to you myself by trying to detail them as much as possible. Please be aware that the Government is committed to no longer using such tools, which means treating evil at its root. We will no longer make advance decrees of this importance in the years to come and, I dare say, we will no longer make advance decrees if we keep our goal of reducing public spending. We will therefore put an end to the initial sub-budgetizations which cast doubt on the sincerity of the finance law and lead, through freezing and freezing, to prevent genuine parliamentary control while discouraging programme managers, ministers and public servants. Secondly, budgetary consolidation will be based solely on expenditure reductions. In addition to the immediate consequences of the Court of Auditors' report, the seriousness of the situation calls for decisive action to put in place now the reduction in public expenditure for the coming years. Our country is in a state of quasi-saturation and holds the European record for the compulsory levy rate of more than 44.4%. The government of Édouard Philippe has chosen to base fiscal consolidation solely on savings in spending, which is a very important work that we are undertaking in the context of the preparation of the 2018 budget and the multi-year budget programming. Therefore, everyone will understand that these savings in expenditure will be spread over all public administrations, the state, social security administrations and local authorities. Given the ambition of the chosen downward trend in public expenditure, which aims to stabilize it in volume from next year and for the next two years, what no government has ever done, the involvement of all subsectors will be necessary. It will be all the more so as we intend to rely on these cuts in expenditure to reduce the burden of our compulsory levies, as I said to you yesterday. To achieve this, we will add a new five-year public finance programming bill to the 2018 Finance Bill, which will set a public expenditure target for all public administrations. That is the meaning of my ministry. It will also make it conditional on our European commitments to reduce our structural deficit. How will we achieve these savings? We can no longer be satisfied with the results achieved over the past few years, which are mainly due to low interest rates or to pitfalls that disappoint everyone. The favourable environment, which is subject to hazards, has certainly reduced the weight of our spending in the national wealth by 0.2 percentage points of GDP, but this is largely insufficient in comparison with our European partners. Only major reforms will yield significant results. To achieve this, we have no time to waste. For this reason, we have begun to identify the policies that deserve the most reform. We are working hard on it. We used a very simple criterion to determine in which area we spend comparatively more than our neighbours with equivalent quality of service. Moreover, the Court of Auditors' report specifies these differences in public expenditure, public policy by public policy. All public policies identified by this observation will be subject, in close connection with each minister concerned, to structural reforms which will lead to a reduction in the cost of public expenditure while improving the quality of service to our citizens. We have therefore identified three public policies for which we spend more than others without improving the public services to which French and French people have access: housing, vocational training and social assistance expenditure in the broad sense. The Government therefore announces that all of its reform efforts will focus, at least in the first few months, on the practical improvement of the effectiveness of these public policies for users while at the same time managing to limit their costs. There is no reason why we should do less well than our European partners! We are not trying to do less to do less, but to do less to do better. It is observed, country by country, that this is necessary and possible. Thanks to the savings we will realize, we will reduce the burden of taxes and taxes on every Frenchman and every French company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u7	Especially those from CAC 40!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u8	We want to implement the tax cuts provided for in the presidential programme so that the French get the benefits of their efforts as quickly as possible. We will thus break with decades of unfulfilled promises and will be all the more credible as we detail precisely the financing of the savings we will achieve. We remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the objective we are aiming for the end of the quinquennium: the tax burden will be one point lower than it is now, because we will finance the tax cuts of more than EUR 11 billion decided by the former government, as well as those announced by the Prime Minister in the last few weeks for next year, which are more than EUR 7 billion in net, i.e. a reduction in compulsory levies of EUR 20 billion. Thus, as of January 2018, we will restore purchasing power to the French by reducing the social contributions that weigh on labour and by starting up the disappearance of the housing tax for more than three-quarters of them to the tune of 3 billion euros. Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that this will result in an increase in purchasing power for our citizens, amounting to 260 euros per year for a worker paid to the SMIC and 500 euros per year for an independent who earns 3000 euros per month thanks to the reduction in social contributions. As for the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of households, it will give French 550 euros of purchasing power on average.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u9	What about the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u10	At the same time, we will free up investment and restore confidence in the "Entreprise France", by ceasing to tax productive capital and non-productive capital at the same level – it is the whole meaning of the reform of property tax that Bruno Le Maire will propose – and by submitting, always under the impetus of the Minister of Economy and Finance, the real estate values to a single flat-rate levy. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the corporate tax rate, an attractive element of the "Entreprise France", will be gradually reduced from 33.3% to 25%, according to a trajectory voted this year, and of which Bruno Le Maire will be able to detail at length all the interest for French companies. This is the government's fiscal agenda for the coming months and – dare we say so! – for the years to come. In short, we intend to put public spending at the service of growth and employment, not the other way around. This Copernician revolution must be accompanied by a change in political culture. More public spending no longer means more services to the French. On the contrary: if we refer to the current situation, the increase in public spending has not been accompanied by an improvement in public action for most of our fellow citizens, who did not understand in return why they were so taxed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u11	Sophism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I can count on you to support the Government on this path. I know you will, with us, make this Copernician revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u13	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u14	He is the CEO of the "French company"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to come, following the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, to present to you the broad guidelines of the French economic strategy, which underpin our budgetary and fiscal choices for the quinquennium. The current economic situation is characterized by three points which I believe are essential. Growth is beginning to return slowly, both in the world and in the euro area, where the outlook for this year is 1.7%. Unprecedented technological revolutions are taking place: we do not measure the full impact on the labour market, on employment, on the transformation of enterprises, whatever their size. Twenty years after the software revolution of which the Americans had been the main beneficiaries, we are facing a revolution in data and artificial intelligence, of which France and the European states must be the first beneficiaries. Finally, there is considerable uncertainty about world trade. Protectionism by both the United States and China, the world's first two economic powers, poses risks. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In the face of this situation, what is our economic strategy? We want to take advantage of this growth to initiate the necessary economic transformation of our productive apparatus. We refuse, because "it's better", to step back in the face of the country's economic transformations. This attitude, which has been observed for thirty years, explains that our potential for growth is now less than France could obtain in terms of its qualities, talents and know-how. Because "it's better", you have to decide quickly and make a strong decision, and not delay difficult decisions! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We also make the determined choice of investment for innovation. We must take this technological revolution with us, and not allow ourselves to be led by revolutions that we would undergo. It is not France's tradition to undergo the revolution, but to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u16	The knife between your teeth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u17	He thinks he's Che Guevara!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u18	This also applies to the economic transformations of our country. Finally, we choose to defend trade openness on the basis of reciprocity. We believe in fair world trade, respect for trade rules between major world powers. We reject commercial dumping by some large states. We want reciprocity in terms of rules and standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u19	Is this the case for agricultural products in CETA?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u20	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This applies to all economic sectors – industry, services and agricultural products, dear Marc Le Fur. I have been a great advocate as Minister of Agriculture, and I will also be Minister of Economy and Finance. Our goal is that this economic transformation of the country can benefit all French people, without exception. There is not on the one hand France that wins and on the other France that suffers. There's only one France...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u21	The one who suffers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u22	..., which must take full advantage of the return of growth and prosperity, in the service of employment. France is not on the one hand metropolises, major universities, research centres, pointed laboratories and, on the other, rural France, remote France, isolated France, forgotten France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u23	What about the suburbs?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] There is only one France, which must take full advantage of the return of growth, innovation, training and education. It is this belief that we carry here, on every bench. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Yesterday with Benjamin Griveaux, I went to the GM and S site in La Souterraine to say that we would not abandon anyone in the face of the world's economic transformations: every employee, every worker, every territory – without exception – must have the opportunity to succeed. For this, I have told you, structural reforms are needed to support growth. They will enable businesses, both large and small, to expand employment and hire. The reform of the labour code, defended by Muriel Pénicaud under the authority of the Prime Minister, is a major reform, since it will free up the possibility of creating jobs for the TPEs and SMEs, giving the entrepreneurs their fear of hiring. We will continue with the structural reforms that Gérald Darmanin has just mentioned: the modernization of unemployment insurance, the modernization of pension systems, the modernization of the training system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u25	Modernize training? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u26	For if there is a key to success tomorrow, it is that of an education and training system that enables young people and employees to realize themselves in the world as it is. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We will undertake a package of reforms aimed at thoroughly modernizing the functioning of our economy. We want to facilitate the daily lives of entrepreneurs by simplifying rules and standards. The administration must not be there to systematically control entrepreneurs, but to help them create the wealth and jobs that our country needs. [[Same movements]] We will fight against overtransposition of directives. We will make the growth path of companies more fluid and will introduce in 2018 a bill on TPEs and SMEs, which will allow companies to grow and become medium-sized companies, strong, able to withstand economic shocks and export their products all over the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I count on your recommendations, your ideas, your comments, your criticisms and your proposals to make this text on business transformation one of the great laws of the year 2018! [[Same movements]] We also want to finance innovation. Together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, we have decided to commit 10 billion euros of State assets to invest in an innovation fund. It will be intended to finance break-up innovations – of these innovations that require very large investments, do not pay off immediately but save time ahead of our major European or global competitors. We believe that the money of the taxpayer and the state is better placed when it is used to finance the jobs of tomorrow rather than when it allows to collect the dividends of a company: 10 billion euros for breaking innovation, that is 10 billion euros for the employment and the future of our children. The second part of our strategy is deficit reduction, in order to meet our European commitments. I will not go back to the clarifications that Gérald Darmanin gave perfectly, contenting myself with a few personal and political remarks. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] To all those who believe that the salvation of France, the guarantee of employment and growth lies in the increase in public expenditure, I would ask to explain why our country, which has the level of public expenditure relative to the highest national wealth in Europe, does not benefit from the highest growth, the lowest unemployment rate and the strongest trade balance – on the contrary! When you're in a dead end, you can choose to stay or get out of it. We decide to get out of it, by reducing massively public deficits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u27	By taxing the rich?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u28	On the other hand, I mean on all the benches, quite legitimately, that a number of European Union guidelines should be changed. We are told that the directive on posted workers must be amended and we, together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, reply: "Yes, three times yes! " But when, at the European Council table, you want to convince your German, Italian and Spanish counterparts to amend this unfair directive which leads to social dumping, lowers wages and does not protect workers, particularly in transport, construction and public works...,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u29	You're diving under the table!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... these reply to you: how do you want us to follow you when you ask to amend the European rules, while you do not even respect those which prevail in terms of deficit and debt?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u31	It's all the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u32	Only Germany is telling you that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] If you want our voice to be credible in Europe, then the Government must respect European commitments. We will stick to it strictly, in order to give the word of France the weight it has lost for twenty years. The reduction of public deficits and public expenditure must go hand in hand, as of 2018, with the reduction of taxes. The tax burden is simply unbearable for French households. It is perfectly possible to reduce both public expenditure and the levies which weigh on the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u34	What about the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u35	We are accountable for the commitments made by the President of the Republic in this regard; we are accountable for the fulfilment of European commitments; we are accountable for the reduction of taxes, as well as public expenditure, as of 2018; We are accountable for the priorities that the President of the Republic has set, in all areas, including the rule of law, including defence. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The path set by the President of the Republic is to increase the defence budget to 2 per cent of the national wealth by 2022. This trajectory will be strictly respected, because the Minister of Public Accounts and I are the accountants in front of the French. These tax changes are aimed first of all at revaluing work. All of you, regardless of your political affiliation, hear the same comments and criticisms from employees, workers, employees at modest levels of pay. You have listened to these women alone, who have to have their children and take their cars to go to work, and who notice that, basically, they would live better from the income of redistribution and allowances while staying at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u36	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u37	It's shameful! You have no right to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] All of us on these benches have heard it, and we all know that a nation has no future when it is more comfortable to stay at home than to go to work and live with its work. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] There is no future for a nation in the devalorization of labour and modest wage earners. We must give back to all those who work and receive modest wages the prospect of improving their incomes. As of 2018, we will therefore remove sickness and unemployment contributions. In return, the CSG will increase by 1.7 points. I am assuming this political choice which will allow those who work, the employees, to earn better income at the end of the month. At the same time, we will promote the competitiveness of French companies. The competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE –, which is too complex and causes an unbearable delay in cash flow for small businesses, will be removed from the salaries paid in 2019 and transformed into an immediate reduction in employer contributions. The rate of corporate tax will be gradually reduced to 25% by the end of the quinquennium and will finally be comparable to that of all other European countries, in particular the euro area Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u39	Including for big companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u40	This reduction in corporate tax will take place even as we aim at fiscal harmonisation and fiscal convergence between euro area Member States. The 3% contribution on distributed revenues, recently condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union, will be abolished. The scope of simplified tax regimes for small businesses will be extended. All these measures meet only one objective: to allow our companies to create greater margins to invest, innovate and create the jobs we have been waiting for over 20 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u41	For the dividends, more like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u42	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We will stimulate investment and allow our businesses to better finance themselves. The solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – which discourages investment, will be abolished as early as 2018, and replaced by a tax that will only apply to real estate values.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u43	Is that what you call a fair decision?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] A one-time flat-rate levy of 30% will be introduced on capital income instead of current, complex and illegible schemes. By creating a single flat-rate levy on all capital income, we not only simplify the lives of the French, but we also send a message to all external investors: "Come and invest in France, France is changing, it is welcoming and has regained the taste of conquest, growth and work! " Finally, we will advance the ecological transition through a review of energy taxation. The carbon component of the domestic consumption tax on energy products, the TICEP, will be increased, and the gas oil tariff will be gradually aligned with that applicable to petrol. We will act progressively, maintaining the benefits reserved for transporters and farmers, and providing for compensation measures for the most modest households. That is the economic strategy we want to implement. It's a break-up strategy, and we're claiming it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u45	It's continuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u46	It is a strategy of conquest, and we claim it. It is a strategy based on the economic power of businesses, large or small, self-employed, traders, SMEs, FTEs, very large companies, which are also the pride of our nation. Everyone will be able to benefit from this new perspective and from this new economic will. France must not resign itself to achieving systematically worse results than its major European neighbours. It is not intended to suffer from an unemployment rate of five points higher than that of its major European neighbours, Germany in the lead.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u47	The jobs at 1 euro!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u48	France must not resign itself to the fact that its trade balance is systematically in deficit, driven only by aeronautics and agriculture, with the other items in deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u49	Declinist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u50	France must not resign itself to seeing, on the one hand, territories that succeed, develop, and are flourishing, and, on the other hand, territories that suffer, where shops close, where industries put the key to the door and where employees despair. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. –Exclaims on the benches of the FI group]] France must not resign itself to being systematically placed behind the other great European nations. She has a vocation to be in front of her. The economic strategy that we are carrying with the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, must allow France to regain the only place that is worth it: the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u51	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u52	My point of order is based on Rule 58(1). First of all, the sessions start at 9.30 a.m. The meeting was opened at 9.35 a.m. It is good for the House to respect the timetables.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u54	I also read on the screen that Mr Laurent Saint-Martin is the alternate for Mr Joël Giraud. I did not know that the rapporteur-general for the budget had an alternate. This one has never been designated. I know that we have entered a new era, but we must abide by the rules of this house. In this case, the rapporteur-general for the budget must attend all the sittings at which a financial text is discussed. I am speaking under the supervision of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who has made the effort to be present, and who will be present throughout the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Rules of Procedure of this House have laid down principles that are binding on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u56	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] Thank you for that point of order, Mrs Dalloz. We have indeed opened the sitting late, but you know, like me, the difficulties of traffic in Paris. These are things that happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u57	Take the subway!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u58	But we will always make sure to start on time. Furthermore, Mr Giraud cannot be with us this morning. Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, Vice-Chairman of the Finance Committee, replaced him, without having the title of alternate. It's a substitute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u59	"Alternate" to the present participant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u60	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u61	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, in addition, ladies and gentlemen, in order to correct public finances, we need to have clear ideas, and I will use these modest five minutes to try to clarify the debate. The Government is showing a great deal of voluntarism. At this point, we have more questions than answers. I will therefore ask you fifteen questions about the direction of public finances. Last week, you introduced more than 3 billion credit cancellations: 47% relate to legitimate missions, even though the President is more deployed on the international scene than ever before. Clearly, this is a more political priority than a budgetary one. Why did you focus most of the effort on the Regalian ministries? A simple advance order, inappropriate, was the result of a highly respected Chief of Staff. After these cuts, what will be the budget of the army out of the extra cost of external operations in 2018? You also intend to take "corrective measures" for a sum of 1 billion, but what is really behind these very opaque provisions, especially those relating to state aid for housing? According to the preparatory report, savings will be realized on the decrease in the number of contracts assisted. Yet, you're going to create more than the 280,000 planned. How can you save 300 million with even more assisted contracts? As the European economy gets better, you continue to increase these assisted jobs. Don't you have confidence in your reform of the Labour Code and your tax measures? Will you decrease the number of jobs assisted in 2018? In 2018, you want to reduce the tax burden on households, and I am happy about it, but you seem angry with the numbers. You want to achieve 20 billion savings while the Court of Auditors denounces a drift in public spending close to 30 billion euros each year. And we must add the 11 billion euros of tax cuts in 2018 that you promised, as well as the new spending announced: the increase in the disabled adult allowance, the upgrading of the minimum old age, the activity premium. In the end, $30 billion is missing. So what exactly will be the scale of the effort to be made in 2018? In terms of tax increases, several questions arise, particularly in the field of energy taxation. You announced two distinct devices: increasing the trajectory of the energy climate contribution and aligning diesel prices with gasoline prices. It is not clear: what will be the increase in the price per litre of diesel for French drivers? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the side of the 20% increase in the CSG, nothing is clear either. There is a question of an increase without compensation for pensioners. Why is it an absolute emergency to reduce the purchasing power of pensioners? I still don't understand. It will not be good, in 2018, to be retired, to drive diesel and to smoke. Very bad citizen profile! On the other hand, you said that 100 per cent of civil servants would be compensated, as would 50 per cent of the liberal professions. What mechanisms will be used to compensate for the increase in the CSG? In the preliminary report, you explain that major structural reforms will be launched – housing, social minimums, vocational training and transport. Without any precision, we don't know what your course will be. But there are no savings without reform. We had put in place a review of public policies, because a method of state reform must be sustainable, stable and flexible. What would be the main features of your structural reforms to achieve 80 billion savings in five years? I welcome your willingness to stabilize expenditure in volume, which is difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u63	But in order to achieve this, you also need to review social spending. What are your intentions regarding active solidarity income – RSA – and its management, the national objective of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – and the pension system? As far as local authorities are concerned, you want to remove the housing tax, thereby depriving municipalities of their own resources. Are you going to compensate for the 10 billion that are missing by the increase in the CSG? And is this not the way to implement this old socialist idea, which is the merger of the CSG and the income tax? At the same time, you're asking for a $13 billion effort from communities on the quinquennium. I am in favour of the contract, which was on the agenda of most presidential candidates, but why rush to weaken local authorities? And, in a somewhat pujadist way, why do you always want to impoverish the elected representatives, both national and local? We have also learned that the first stage of the 50 billion major investment plan is expected to begin next year, and that it will be partly offset by a decline in the investment programme for the future. Do you plan to puncture the PIA for five years? Will you substitute for future investments, contrary to what the Minister of the Economy has just said, the planned spending on transport infrastructure? Finally, with regard to the public payroll, we have noted the freezing of the index point, the restoration of the waiting day and perhaps the abolition of some 120,000 civil servants. But that won't be enough. What structural economies do you want to achieve on the public service – status, career development? Are you finally going to reconsider the famous PPCR – career paths, careers and remuneration? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are the fifteen concrete questions, which call for fifteen clear answers from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u64	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteurs-general, present or replaced, ladies and gentlemen, for the first public finance policy debate in this new Parliament, the Committee on Social Affairs, which I have the honour to chair, has taken part in a public sitting. It is simply a question of giving particular insight into social finances. The debate we are holding today is indeed beyond the scope of State finances alone, as provided for in Article 48 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws of 1 August 2001 – the LOLF. Article 6 of the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Acts of 2 August 2005 echoes this, explicitly providing for the integration of social finances into the policy debate on public finances. The involvement of the Committee on Social Affairs in this debate has in the past been of varying geometry. In some years, the committee has published a brief information report, in addition to that of the Finance Committee. At times, the commission has abstained from reports, but also from public expression in the meeting. For this legislature, it seemed more appropriate to us to choose the effective way that some of our predecessors used to intervene in public sittings. I am deliberately using the plural, because, in my speech, I will succeed Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs. Since the rapporteur-general has been responsible for the entire bill on the financing of social security, it is now up to him to speak in our debate. For my part, I would like to stress a few points, without going into detail. I would like to begin by recalling that social finance is the main component of public finances, with almost EUR 500 billion in expenditure and revenue in 2017. These figures are the financial translation of a choice of society, of a political choice which, for the most part, transcends the divisions for seventy years: that of offering our fellow citizens a high level of protection against the hazards of life. This common heritage, the President of the Republic intends to preserve it, and even to provide it with new protections, so that social security can adapt to the challenges of a changing world. The majority will be at the side of the Government to translate this strong commitment into action: essential but costly care will be better reimbursed, a major investment plan will be launched to improve our health system, pension plans will be simplified, and thus fairer. All these measures will be implemented in a spirit of accountability. For the strength of our social protection also depends on the credibility of its financing. In this regard, social security will participate, like other public administrations, in the necessary effort to correct the accounts. The recent audit of the Court of Auditors reminds us of our duty of vigilance: reducing our public deficit and debt means saving our children heavy, too heavy sacrifices. We will have to support the efforts necessary to achieve this. I do not go back in detail to the means presented in the reports of the Government and the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance. As far as the method is concerned, the Committee on Social Affairs can only agree with the idea of a comprehensive approach to public finances, of which this debate is a good illustration. In this regard, I would like to say a word about the Government's proposals for parliamentary scrutiny of financial laws. There is a need to strengthen the link between revenue components of draft finance laws and social security financing bills. This proposal raises important procedural, scheduling and possibly defining the respective fields of the PLF and PLFSS. It is therefore pleased that the Government intends to involve both Houses of Parliament in its deliberations. In addition, the Government's report refers to a refocusing of the discussion of the financial texts on the main measures and guidelines in this area, in order to provide time for the review of other legislation and monitoring activities. Could you, Minister, give us some details on the contours of this proposal? Do not doubt, in any event, the will of the Committee on Social Affairs to be involved in the discussions on financial matters common to the State and to social security. I would also like to take this opportunity to propose to the Committee on Finance joint work on what is to be one of the Parliament's main public finance projects, namely the transformation of the CICE into burden relief. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This is, I believe, a noble ambition for this early legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u66	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, who is replacing Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u67	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u68	Madam President, Ministers, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, after examining the draft regulation on Tuesday evening, which was drawing up the accounts for the financial year 2016, we are debating this morning the direction of public finances in preparation for the draft finance bill for 2018. Here is a perfect illustration of the famous "virtuous link" advocated by the promoters of the Organic Law on Finance Laws. The lessons of implementation must allow us to make the right fiscal and fiscal choices next fall. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to concentrate on a few specific points and to be the interpreter of all my colleagues in the Committee on Finance by sharing with you the main issues that they have raised. As regards first of all the financial year 2017, the Finance Committee delivered an opinion on Tuesday evening on the draft advance decree opening and cancelling appropriations amounting to EUR 3 billion in payment appropriations. In addition, the Government has informed our commission of a draft cancellation decree of 274 million euros. In total, this amounts to €3.3 billion. However, the preparatory report for our policy debate points to additional remedial measures – in your words, "cooling" measures – amounting to €1.15 billion. We expect information on these savings that are expected to occur in the second half of the year – limiting the volume of aided contracts, controlling personal housing allowances. What exactly do these complementary measures cover? With regard to the 2018 financial year, the Government has planned various measures to reduce taxes. I will stop for a moment at the first stage of exemption from the housing tax, for 3 billion euros. The full compensation of revenue losses to local and regional authorities was rightly presented as an intangible principle. However, could you give us more details on the modalities of this compensation? What will be the reference year of the compensation? In addition, the Government's report states that "the fourth instalment of the wage tax will be abolished" in order to strengthen the attractiveness of the Paris financial centre. Could you give us the timetable for this deletion and its encryption? Many questions have been raised about the creation of the single flat-rate levy on capital income, otherwise called flat tax, particularly on its base. Could you give us any further details on this point? Will this levy concern property income and capital gains? With regard to the five-year trajectory, the Government has made an ambitious commitment to reduce the public expenditure ratio by three points between 2017 and 2022. According to the Court of Auditors' calculations, this would represent an effort to save around 80 billion euros, all of which are public administrations. You said during the week that local and regional authorities should be involved in this effort to the tune of EUR 13 billion. At what level do you estimate the effort to be made by the State, on the one hand, and by the social security administrations, on the other? In addition, what mechanism are you planning to reduce expenditure for local and regional authorities? In addition, at the end of the quinquennium, you have planned a convergence of the taxation of diesel and petrol, requiring an acceleration of the carbon trajectory. In total, green tax measures are expected to increase revenues by €2 billion. Could you elaborate on the elements that will allow for this additional revenue and the forecast schedule? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The answers to these questions will enable parliamentarians, in particular the members of the Finance Committee, to discuss the next five-year public finance planning bill and finance bill for 2018 under the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u69	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, this is the first time that a rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, which was set up in 2014 and which I am the first to hold, has spoken in public. I am proud and happy to participate in this public finance policy debate to talk about social finance. What is the social finance situation? The balance sheet is mixed: the overall situation is indeed worse than expected, which justifies the announcement by the Government of a plan of savings of 4.5 billion euros in 2017. I welcome the fact that the social security agencies are exempt from this. What should be borne in mind from the last report of the Committee on Social Security Accounts of 6 July? The deficit in the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund fell sharply in 2016 compared to 2015 – $7.8 billion compared to $10.8 billion – and even more so compared to 2012 – $17.5 billion. These figures show that the real efforts that have been required of all actors in the social protection sector in recent years have not been in vain. I want to thank them here, especially public and private health professionals. For 2017, the deficit reduction projections are EUR 5.6 billion, a result lower than expected by the latest Social Security Financing Act, which was down to 4.2 billion. For the future, what should we do? First of all, we need to think about the tools that have been renewed in the service of a strategy that places responsibility above rigour. The Government has expressed its willingness to reconcile the examination of State revenues with that of social security revenues. I'm glad. It was a recurrent proposal of the Court of Auditors. I would like to associate myself with the question put by the chairman of the committee on the modalities of this joint examination. For an even more comprehensive vision of social security tomorrow, perhaps, in parallel with the law on the financing of social security, consideration should be given to complementary social protection, thus echoing the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. The objective remains, of course, the recovery of social accounts by 2020. Health insurance and the Old Age Solidarity Fund remain the two sources of the social security deficit. The return-to-balance trajectory designed by the Government for 2020, rather than 2019, is realistic in the current context. It is logical to expect social security administrations to contribute to the consolidation of public finances, but this participation must be smart, because social finances are a vector for boosting growth through supply and demand. With regard to supply, the recovery requires the conversion of the CICE into permanent reliefs of charges, a system that is simpler, more legible and long-term. As for the demand, it is planned to give employees purchasing power by considerably reducing sickness insurance and unemployment insurance contributions. This promises us a good debate for next autumn. What says recovery without rigour, says real social security policy, because the return to balance is certainly an accounting necessity, but not a political ambition in itself. We need a political ambition for our pensions: a universal system, simpler, fairer, without any deterioration in the level of pensions, and without any increase in the duration and rate of contributions. We also need a clear course for health expenditure: as rapporteur-general, I will plead for a legislative contract for health insurance, because structural economies will only be possible if we invest first in the long term. This approach is preferable to the plan logic that prevails every year, to the detriment of insured persons, caregivers, health care institutions and industry in the field of health. During the campaign, the President of the Republic voted in favour of a multi-year ONDAM. It's a fundamental choice. While ONDAM increases spontaneously by 3.5 to 4% due to population ageing, population growth, increased chronic disease and medical progress, PLFSS has become a difficult exercise every year, close to the circle's quadrature. We must substitute a logic of structural reforms for the logic of planing, which weighs on our hospitals: when the activity of hospitals increases each year by 3 or 4%, while the rate of activity increases by only 1 to 2%, this creates stress for the teams. The logic of planing is detrimental to companies and industries in the health sector, as budget cuts can eventually weaken innovation capabilities. Finally, it harms patients by altering the proximity and quality of care. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The logic of the quinquennium must therefore be that of deep and lasting structural reforms. This involves visibility, readability and time. I would be happy to argue that, at the beginning of the quinquennium, we should be able to create a margin within ONDAM to invest in fundamental structural reforms to prevent, reduce inequalities and increase the efficiency of care pathways for the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u71	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u72	Madam President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to say everything in five minutes. I will therefore confine myself to a few alerts to our ministers – that they are convinced of their benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u73	We are!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u74	The first alert relates to source sampling. You know our opposition to this reform: complexity for businesses, loss of confidentiality for households, threat to the familyization of taxes. You don't remove it, you move it by a year. In doing so, you are taking a constitutional risk, it seems to me, since you do not foresee it in a law of amending finance, but in an order, and, moreover, in an order of which the main subject is different.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u75	This has nothing to do with our debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u76	You are taking a constitutional risk because this reform affects not only tax collection, but also the tax base. In fact, it was originally planned that in 2017, taxpayers would pay on 2016 revenues and, in 2018, on 2018 revenues. 2017 was in fact non-taxed. The decision is made, as the year is already well advanced, that the revenues will finally be taxed in 2017. Thus, this evolution of the base will, in spite of everything, make losers. Ministers, care must be taken to avoid the constitutional risk. I am also launching an alarm on the housing tax, the reform of which – as the Chairman of the Finance Committee has said – is a real hold-up for municipalities and communities in general. One or two issues were not addressed. The first concerns the threshold effect. You say that 80% of taxpayers will be spared and only 20% will pay the tax. National income will therefore be determined below which it will not be paid and beyond which it will be paid. To a few euros close to income, one will pay or will not pay the housing tax, which can be 400, 500 euros, or even 1000 or 1500. The threshold effect will therefore be considerable – and misunderstood by taxpayers. To avoid this, you have no alternative but to provide a smoothing device. Of course, 80% of households will be saved, but 10% will have to imagine a mechanism to avoid a threshold effect. I'm sorry you didn't mention it at all. A second question relating to the housing tax concerns the link between the rates of the housing tax, the property tax on built properties, the property tax on unbuilt properties and the property tax on businesses. This essential link had been created to avoid excessive tax increases by local authorities: the housing tax was the regulatory element, because, as it concerns a large number of taxpayers, local elected officials are sensitive to it and avoid overly increasing taxes whose rates are linked. Since, from now on, the housing tax will affect very few taxpayers, this mechanism will disappear and some demagogy will be free. Local taxes will be increased all the more as you lower the allocations to local authorities. I will again launch a benevolent alert on diesel, welcoming the fact that the chairman of the committee has done so in his own way. You will probably object that about 50% of vehicles are diesel and 50% gasoline. That's true, if you think about it for sale, but the stock is made up of almost 80% diesel, and it's diesel that drives the big vehicle users. In the end, those who do not benefit from public transport, those who work at night or who belong to the rural world will be penalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u77	Or the students!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u78	The alert is real: you will create many problems. My last warning concerns the reform of the ISF, for which you have chosen the worst solution. Instead of removing this tax, you reserve it for land, which you consider, in your own words, to be "an annuity", "unproductive capital". Land is an investment, and we need investors in the rental, otherwise we will reserve it to the HLM alone. It comes to this paradox that the state, which encourages investment in rental, notably through Pinel, will discourage it by taxation under the ISF, which will cover the land alone. You create a distortion. You're kind of promoting nomadic money at the expense of sedentary wealth. But the fortune that has invested itself in stone, we also need it in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ministers, I invite you to be very careful about these issues. You make a choice of company by adopting this position on the ISF. When you click, to speculate in the moment, you will not be imposed; When you invest your wealth in houses to rent them, you'll be. Is that so reasonable? I'm not convinced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u81	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u82	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate before us is a major one. It lays the first stones of France's fiscal trajectory for the years to come, in the spirit of the project of the presidential majority of which the Democratic Movement is one of the pillars. We are pleased that this trajectory reconciles the imperative of reducing public expenditure with the long-awaited reduction in compulsory levies. This is about France's credit in Europe. We welcome the emphasis placed on investment in education, vocational training and ecological transition. It is about the future of our country. As we open our debates on the nation's budget for 2018, I would like, on behalf of the Democratic Movement, to launch an appeal, a call for a revolution, that is, a sudden reversal of our budgetary habits, a revolution in the evaluation of our public finances. If our fellow citizens have lost confidence in their politicians and in the institutions of the Republic, it is because they too often have the legitimate feeling that the tax they are being charged is wasted on inefficient spending, that the laws passed in this forum do not achieve their objectives, however noble they may be. Their exasperation obliges both the executive and the legislative branches to make this revolution, to evaluate both upstream and downstream the budgetary provisions. And, let us not be mistaken, the task is immense. While the impact studies of the bills, made mandatory by the Organic Act of 15 April 2009, are considered incomplete, insufficient and irrelevant by the Council of State, while parliamentary evaluation reports, often of excellent quality, which mobilize MPs, senators and administrators, pile up in dozens without being followed by effects, while our public finances are subject to unprecedented constraints, the time has come to ensure that every new expenditure we vote can be assessed, and if necessary, repealed. Let us imagine that every new expenditure will be sustained only when it demonstrates its effectiveness. Let us imagine that, from the time of the finance bill, the criteria, and the technical and financial means of this evaluation are foreseen. Let us finally imagine that, whenever possible, any new device can be tested before being generalized. Then we'll be waiting for the French and French. At the same time, we must have the courage to take stock of the existing devices, even the most emblematic ones, to take stock of them and to draw the consequences. Let us take the example of the personalized housing aids, the APLs, whose 40th anniversary we are celebrating. The objective Raymond Barre had given them was noble. The aim was to facilitate access to housing for all, thereby promoting social cohesion. [["Exactly! » on the benches of the REM group]] [["That's right! » on the benches of the REM group]] Forty years later, the goal is still the same, it is still as noble, but the world has changed, and the effectiveness of the APLs is contested by all serious scientific studies. Rather than benefiting tenants, they lead to an increase in rents that benefits landlords. We therefore spend EUR 18 billion each year, including EUR 600 million in management costs, on a policy that produces effects that are contrary to those we have set for it. The time has come to reshape our housing policy to make it more efficient and equitable. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] Ministers, on housing as in many other areas, we can do better with less spending but more courage. You know that, we know that, and we will be at the side of the Government to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u83	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u84	Ministers, the reading of the report in preparation for your government's fiscal policy debate over the five years 2017-2022 encourages the Constructive Group to provide you with three comments and three preliminary observations. The three preliminary observations are as follows. First, the legacy is heavy, you recalled. Not only were budget documents insinuating, up to about 8 billion in 2017, but public deficits are no longer shrinking, and even increasing in 2017 and 2018. Secondly, without far-reaching structural reforms, there will be no lasting reduction in public spending. However, it is very uncertain about such reforms, which are very simple. As far as pensions are concerned, not only must there be a single system for all public and private employees, all special schemes, including those of parliamentarians, be terminated, but the retirement age must continue to rise slowly by one quarter a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u85	No! No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u86	If you don't, the deficit will be $15 billion in 2022. I'm not saying that, but the Pension Guidance Board. Read his work! Unemployment compensation must also be reformed. I know that your line is close to ours. It is simply not worth extending unemployment insurance to self-employed workers, who are neither applicants nor resignations, who, in a society of responsibilities, assume their responsibility by resigning. Let's start degression, as you propose. We will then be able to tackle certain derogations such as the interim arrangements, which cost the regime $1 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u87	And that of the intermittents!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u88	I'm talking about the interims – but we could also talk about the intermittents of the show. Let's have some courage in this area! Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, you have referred to housing policy without telling us your intentions in this area. Do you share the analysis of some economists, according to whom the housing policy carried out over the last 30 years would have considerably increased the price of real estate and that housing allowances would have encouraged high rents, at least in large cities? You did not talk about tax expenditure reform, which amounts to 89 billion. We are talking only about the CICE, but if we withdraw the cost of this measure, the tax expenditure still amounts to over $74 billion. Here too, it would take a little of that courage that we never had.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u89	Tax evasion amounts to 80 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u90	And then, ladies and gentlemen, why not extend to the public sector the measures proposed to us in the field of labour law for private employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u91	We're coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u92	In the name of what would it be in the sense of flexibility for each other and not for others? A little courage! I come to my third preliminary point: potential growth will be slow and gradual. I have found that you are very careful in this matter: at present, whether we like it or not, the order of magnitude of the potential growth of France is 1.1%. You are assuming a slow increase of up to 1.5% or 1.6%, possibly 1.7%. That is indeed prudent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u94	Why? The rate can only be raised by a considerable investment effort, by redrawing competitiveness and margins for businesses, because I have never seen a deficit company invest. That is why we have fallen far behind in terms of automation and robotics. It must be made clear that the priority is for the company. Otherwise, we will not straighten our country. These are the three preliminary remarks that I wanted to make. Now come to three remarks on your path of reducing public deficits. It is insufficient, too delayed and not compatible with our European commitments. The trend in the structural balance, which starts at 2.2%, is reduced on average by only 0.2 percentage points per year. It remains stable at 2.2% compared to 2017 and then falls by 0.3 percentage points from 2019, 2020 and 2021. The European Union is asking us to make an effort of 0.5 percentage points of structural deficit. We're far from it, since you're different from the structural effort. They're your numbers, they're not mine! The second reason why your public deficit reduction trajectory is insufficient is that you reduce mandatory levies by 1.5 points between 2017 and 2019, but you climb them by 0.4 points between 2019 and 2022. This is not a reasonable strategy to reach 1.1 points! Let's start with a sharp drop, then go back up. Don't do that! These are the figures in the rapporteur-general's report. Finally, the 2.5-point decline in spending in five years does not go far enough, because you do not go far enough in structural reforms. My second point concerns your tax reduction measures. There is everything, although they are generally insufficient, since, as you have pointed out, it is quite insufficient to reduce the compulsory levies by one point in five years, that is to say, by 22 billion, even though we have the second compulsory levy rate – and I think that in two or three years we will no longer be a silver medal, but a gold medal. Among your proposals, a whole series of measures are in the right direction: the removal of the 3% dividend tax, the reduction of the corporate tax rate, from 33 to 25%, the partial elimination of the ISF, although it is totally inconsistent to maintain this property tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u95	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u96	What will real estate owners do? Sell them, to convert them into shares. And don't tell me that real estate is not productive property! This produces housing services, allowing our fellow citizens to live. We must therefore remain balanced in these matters. The single 30% levy on wealth income is very good, as is the abolition of the fourth instalment of the wage tax. As for the abolition of the intraday tax on financial activities, we have consistently said that those who voted for this measure were demagogues, since there would be no longer any basis – the intraday will simply be in London or Frankfurt. So that's common sense. On the other hand, three major measures are moving in the wrong direction. The first is the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of our citizens. You will not hold on to this 80%: the whole housing tax will pass there. If the housing tax is an unfair and inappropriate tax, I would remind you that the tax on built land has the same basis. So be logical until the end, also remove the tax on built land! But what I blame you for is removing the housing tax for 80% – and eventually 100% – of our fellow citizens without inventing any new tax, substitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u97	Wait a second! We're coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u98	You're not proposing anything in this regard. This is completely contrary to a principle to which our group is extremely committed, the principle of responsibility. If you finance the territorial authorities massively by means of State endowments, an impecunious state which is more so, since you will not hold the compensations in time, what will you result in? To de-responsibility for elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u99	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u100	Yes, that's the problem! The second step in the wrong direction is the increase in the price of tobacco from 7 to 10 euros without European coordination. We have kept saying that, not only will you not have 500 million extra recipes, but you will have a massive substitution effect. I would remind our colleagues that 27% of tobacco consumed in France already comes from abroad and does not pay taxes. It costs us $2 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u101	Not to mention the illegal market!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u102	Cigarette trafficking...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u103	[[Smile]] Smoke French!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u104	Don't do that! In terms of public health, you will encourage an increase in consumption. Today, the smoking rate is no longer decreasing; they will buy their tobacco which in Belgium or Luxembourg, which in Spain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u105	[[Smile]] In Corsica!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u106	You who are deeply pro-European, like myself, do not do this without European coordination. If you don't, you'll go to disaster. The last step in the right direction is the elimination of social security contributions for sickness and unemployment, which will cost 13 billion, financed by a 1.7-point increase in the CSG, which pays 17 billion. So you have $4 billion to compensate – but you won't compensate. There are 8 million pensioners – out of 13.8 – involved. When you receive an average pension of 1230 euros, this 1.7-point increase is not reasonable! The same applies to self-employed workers and public servants: you will not be able to compensate for many of them. I come to the last point...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u107	Thank you for closing, Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u108	...which concerns savings. You are very cautious: we don't know where you save money. On the other hand, we know where you want to spend extra money! But you will not stand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u109	Thank you, Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u110	I'm entitled to ten minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u111	The ten minutes are up, Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on some benches of the LR group]] So here are a few comments on these budgetary guidelines.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u113	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u114	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the speech of the President of the Republic in Versailles, the Prime Minister's general policy statement and your speeches earlier, ministers. I also listened to what the various ministers said at the territorial conference last Monday. Almost none of you have spoken of city politics, priority neighbourhoods of the city, urban politics. There is a lot of talk about rurality, a lot about metropolises, but the suburbs seem to have disappeared from the priority themes of this government and this President of the Republic. So let me be worried. I can be, because you never used the word "equalization" in debates about local government reforms. But equalization – it is not the former mayor of Tourcoing who will contradict me – is fundamental and indispensable for these communes. Without sustainable, dynamic equalization, which allows us to cope with the necessary social and educational spending in these difficult neighbourhoods, we cannot meet our obligations. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG and GDR groups]] So what is your vision for equalization for 2018 and subsequent years? Will the allocation of urban solidarity, the DSU, evolve at the same rate as in the previous five years? What of the National Fund for the Equalization of Communal and Intercommunal Resources, the FPIC? What about the Fonds de solidarité des communes de la région Île-de-France, the FSRIF? Are you going to keep it? Will you possibly imagine a new form of equalization so that the priority neighbourhoods of the city's politics can benefit from the revenues they absolutely need? You know, I'll talk to you about urban renewal, too. During the election campaign, I heard the President of the Republic announce that he would double the envelope of the National Agency for Urban Renewal, ANRU.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u115	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u116	MM. Mézard and Denormandie confirmed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u118	When and how will the €5 billion promised arrive in the ANRU caisses? We're told it's coming, but we're waiting! A major step had also been taken last year: the State had to contribute again to the Agency's funding. EUR 1 billion had been committed. This year, we had to have, out of the 100 million, 15 million. Now, if I understand correctly, minister, you have taken back those 15 million. How high will the state finance the ANRU in 2017? And, starting in 2018, will the 100 million promised over ten years be well on the date? Other measures that have been announced concern not only local elected officials, but also our fellow citizens. You talk a lot about reforming housing policy, and you're right. Of the EUR 40 billion that it costs, there are certainly rationalisation measures to be taken and savings to be made. But when you look in detail at what you're proposing, there's something to worry about. You're talking a lot about APLs. Yes, we spend EUR 20 billion on allowing our citizens to pay their rent every month. It's a big expense. There are measures of rationalization and economy to be found, we are all convinced. I had submitted a report to this House last year proposing substantial savings, but without penalising the purchasing power of our citizens. The aim was to make better use of the funds invested to save money and return to simpler measures. Let's stop spending $20 billion for the French to pay their rent! Let's make the cost of rent lower! I had proposed that students whose parents are subject to the ISF should no longer be affected by APLs. This measure had been voted on; This is the only one for which the implementing decree has not yet been adopted. Today, students whose parents are subject to the ISF therefore receive APLs. It seems to me that good management measures can be found to ensure that this is no longer the case. We are extremely worried about the APLs. To follow President Woerth's example, imagine a retired person who smokes...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u119	He's got to stop smoking!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u120	It's not good for your health!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u121	...that runs on diesel and touches the APLs. How can he perceive the measures that have been announced? We talk about it with a certain humor, but imagine that it receives 850 euros of retirement per month...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u122	He's not concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u123	...and get rid of some of his APLs?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u124	He's voting on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u125	He will not benefit from the reduction in the housing tax, as he already pays no more. The positive measures you are taking do not, therefore, affect all the inhabitants of our country, while much of your actions will directly affect the most vulnerable populations and communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u126	I invite you to conclude, Mr. Pupponi.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u127	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I say it with a little humor, but I don't want to laugh, because when I look at in detail what you're proposing, especially about APLs, I'm extremely worried.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u128	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u129	Madam President, ministers, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the alternate – I no longer know how to say – of the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, after closing the accounts for 2016, the day before yesterday, and while the 2017 budget is being implemented, we are today entering an important debate, which concerns the orientation of public finances and which will allow us to prepare for the consideration of the draft finance law for 2018. In just a few hours, unfortunately, we discussed the main directions and options chosen that the Government decided to commit to the country as early as January next. These guidelines are hardly surprising, but remain very worrying. Here is the programme: austerity cure, cuts in public service quotas, dry bread and water from local authorities, which are also put in competition, tax reform that benefits the most fortunate of us. Minister, in your preparatory report, you say that "beyond 2017, the Government wishes to engage on the quinquennium a profound transformation of the economic and social model of France". Indeed, you do not waste any time, and start very symbolically by unblocking the labor code and consecrating – alas! – the reversal of the hierarchy of norms. Of course, there will be tax cuts: the reform of the ISF, the flat tax on savings and a first phase of exemption from housing tax, a total of 11 billion reliefs. The Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, the OFCE, confirms, however, that these measures will be extremely favourable to the richest, but that the poorest will still leave feathers there. The Government wants to finance its reforms through drastic cuts in public spending, and it's going to hurt a lot. For 2017, it is already less than 268 million for Bercy, less 160 million for the Ministry of Justice, less 526 million for the interior, less 75 million for national education, less 50 million for culture, less 280 million for foreign affairs and less 331 million for research. All of this seems to be right for you, Minister of Public Action and Accounts. You said recently before us: "So the observation is very clear: too much public spending is too much deficit, too much debt and too much tax. Our roadmap for the next five years will be equally clear, as we will reduce our deficit by reducing our spending and mandatory levies in order to combat excessive debt. » To justify this austerity cure, then, you are once again putting the threat of debt at risk. As you know, the Members of the House of Commons of France do not accept this blackmail, because France has never been richer – its GDP has doubled since 1990. Moreover, debt is not an insurmountable problem. What impoverishes the state is tax gifts to the richest, to finance and to large groups – and it continues! Is the CICE challenged? Are there any counterpart requests? Not in the least! Tax evasion and tax evasion represent a shortfall of €80 billion for the State. On page 4 of your report, you talk about "consolidating solidarity". That is good, but I have not found any concrete proposals in this direction. In France, today, 30,000 children are homeless; nearly 1 million people do not have housing and 4 million people are poorly housed; Finally, 9 million people live below the poverty line. The decline in public services and the deterioration of living conditions have caused poverty to explode. As the OECD Secretary-General says, "by not tackling inequality, governments are weakening the social fabric in their countries and undermining their long-term economic growth." You have suggested a renewal, but in reality the figures and guidelines for 2018 show – I regret it – that you will not go in the direction of the general interest, solidarity and fraternity, but that you will serve particular, if not very particular, interests. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the NG group]] The direction of public finances that you are proposing places us, in a way, in the situation of mice described by Thomas Douglas in his parable: these mice elected white cats, then black cats, cats that imitated the cry of mice and, finally, mid-black cats, half-white, before realizing that the laws good for cats are less so, alas, for mice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u130	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I would like to point out to those of our colleagues who are called upon to speak after the discussion that they can address Mr Saint-Martin as Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control. That is indeed his title.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u132	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u133	Ministers, since the opening of the special session, we have been deeply concerned about the succession of announcements and information on budgetary matters. We therefore intend to make a few suggestions. As of this year, your budget foresees a reduction of 4.5 billion in state spending, with clear cuts in all budgets, and not just, as has just been pointed out, in that of the Ministry of Armed Forces. This budget also proposes a decrease in revenue, due to the gifts given to the richest, of which 3 billion, you announced, as a result of the disappearance of the ISF. You intend to reduce the public deficit to a forced pace, to bring it back to the famous 3% imposed by the European Union. This is your budget triptych: from gifts to the most affluent, from public spending to the dry system and a total submission to the rules of Europe. If you add to all this the increase in the CSG, not compensated for pensioners receiving a pension at least equal to 1200 euros, the freezing of the index point of the civil servants, the abolition of 120000 posts of civil servants, or the reduction of 13 billion euros in allocations to the communes, you will get an explosive situation without anything to revive the economy. However, as you know, the situation on the ground is already unbearable. The rise in unemployment, the decline in purchasing power, the savings imposed on our communes, our health care system, our public services, all have been going on for far too long, and you are in the process of continuing in this direction. In parallel with all these efforts demanded of the greatest number, a tiny minority of the population has accumulated enormous fortunes, I would even say indecent fortunes in view of the poverty that is growing in our country. The economy has continued its unbearable transformation, becoming increasingly financially financed, increasingly cut off from the real life and needs of the population. The world of finance is home to multinationals and an elite who capture an increasing share of the national wealth, the wealth produced by the employees of our country. Thus, the 500 largest professional fortunes have increased in the last twenty years four times faster than France's GDP. That is why the debate on the sharing of wealth should be reinvigorated. Between 1996 and 2016, the wealth of the 500 richest families increased from €80 billion to €570 billion, more than the state budget. These 500 families now account for 26 per cent of our GDP, compared to 6 per cent 20 years ago. Yet you want to remove the ISF and offer 3 billion more to these multibillionaires. You are also considering removing the last tranche of the wage tax, which affects the high wages of traders and bankers, introducing a flat tax of 30% on household income, and burying European and French financial transaction tax projects. This is nothing more than the marked tax injustice, especially since large groups are now using all the tax niches at their disposal and playing the map of tax optimisation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In fact, Minister, as you propose to reduce the corporate tax rate to 25%, I hope that you will verify that these large multinationals will actually pay 25%, not, as at present, between 4% and 8%, while SMEs pay 30%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u135	That's largely not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u136	We are ready to set up a committee of inquiry on this matter. You could also invite these multinationals, these big families to participate much more in the recovery of our economy, in the national effort, because these big industrialists are getting richer during this period of crisis. Besides, instead of selling our family jewels, you could ask them to invest the €10 billion announced for innovation. First, they would benefit from it; Then they would be no less rich; Finally, our country would be better off, as would our public spending. If they do not participate more in the national effort than they do today, we must stop paying them public money, in all its forms. This is a proposal for savings, which would not only contribute to a better distribution of wealth, to better use of public money, but also to finally send a real signal of tax justice. As far as tax justice is concerned, what are your real intentions in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion? What are you going to propose to deal with tax havens? If greenhouse gases create holes in the ozone layer, tax evasion is opening holes in the state budget: France lacks EUR 60 to 80 billion each year, and Europe lacks EUR 1000 billion. Everyone says that, everyone is aware of this here, but it is the employees, the pensioners, our communes that you are asking to produce more and more effort. These figures show that we are dealing with a real scourge. What diplomatic initiatives will you take to bring to the international level the beautiful idea of a fiscal and financial COP, which was defended here by Alain Bocquet and was the subject of a resolution adopted almost unanimously by the National Assembly last February? Following the model of the environmental COP, it would be for France to be at the initiative of a major international conference on financial regulation and tax harmonisation. If the planet is overheated, global finance is overheated. Now is the time to act. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the means and all the assets to build a united France, strong, respectful of all its territories, in metropolis and overseas, and a France that prepares its children's future. The French need to live with dignity, with a real salary, a real purchasing power from their work; We're far from it. What you are going to give them on the one hand, Mr Darmanin, with the abolition of sickness and unemployment insurance contributions, at least for those who are going to benefit from it – 21 euros a month for a worker at the SMIC, as you said – you are going to take it back on the other side, with the disappearance of public services, a health system that will work less well, savings in housing, the increase in taxes on diesel and tobacco, the increase in the rates of the municipalities or the abolition of some of their services, due to the lack of adequate allocations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u137	Not everyone lives in Saint-Amand-les-Eaux!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u138	Calculate, Mr. Darmanin, what the paid workers at SMIC will lose in the coming years with what you're proposing to them. Secondly, our fellow citizens also need to find local services, which over the years have suffered and will continue to suffer from unbearable savings: I am thinking of the permanences of family benefit funds, pension and occupational health insurance funds, primary health insurance funds, municipal treasury, taxes, post office – until the issuance of national identity cards, which is now only carried out in a few communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u140	This is the concrete translation of these austerity measures, which are becoming unbearable. Mr Minister, why not declare a moratorium on the gradual declines in public services, especially in rural areas, for the time being? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group]] Finally, we must support our France des villages, which needs a solid agriculture, better sustained to meet our food needs, but also those of a planet with a galloping population. In some regions or departments, both in metropolitan France and overseas, it is the question of a contingency plan that arises, with a strong intervention by the State to reduce inequalities and poverty, and to enable every French citizen, simply, to live decently. We have all the assets to meet these challenges, but this requires a better distribution of the wealth produced in order to put money at the service of the real economy, at the service of all our fellow citizens. The political leaders we are have a duty to take over this outrageously financed and uncontrollable economy. Together with other peoples, other countries, in Europe and around the world, we can meet this challenge, meet human needs, reduce famine, poverty, intolerance and wars. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We can discuss a draft budget here, mainly to find out where we cut and where we cut, and thus follow the recommendations of the European Commission and of the markets in a docile manner. But we can also decide to give ourselves the means to have a budget to meet the needs of the French, of our country, and to restore hope, awaken the smiles, prepare the future of our children. This is not incompatible with rigorous management, provided it is fair. You can count on us to make proposals that will put at the heart of our priorities, and of the priorities of France, the human, the human first, to place man and his happiness at the heart of all the choices of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u142	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u143	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the history of reform is covered by a fundamental conflict between the modernisers and the budget. Budgets are constrained. Their golden rule is not necessarily to be stupid and wicked – it is not necessarily an insult, in this case – but it is certainly to be brutal, immediate. The strength of the budget is to move quickly; His weakness is to strike where it is easy and not necessarily where it is useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u145	The reformer, the moderniser, is the opposite: it is someone who believes that reform is the mother of expenditure and not the mother of reform. It is someone who knows that, if we want to go very far in progress, in reducing spending, we must change everything, review missions, targets, modus operandi, so that the essentials, the fundamental values that we defend, can remain. The reformer's weakness is the time he needs: time is the place of all the traps, the permanent temptation of "tomorrow, we shave for free". As a man in the centre, I share the idea with the government that we need a little restraint and a little ambition, a little budget spirit and a lot of modernizing spirit. I believe that good politics resembles a sculpture seen by Paul Valéry, that is, a compromise between the artist's will and the resistance of the material. When I look at what is being proposed to us, I note, Minister of Public Accounts, that you have come before us in the uniform of the budget. You hit hard, you hit fast, and I congratulate you. You had no choice: from the moment you were confronted with massive budgetary under-evaluations, imperative and untenable international and European commitments, and the political, moral and economic requirement not to increase the tax burden, you had no choice but to make painful cuts in areas that, at times, were not the most suitable in the short term. I hope that you think that what has been done this year will, in one way or another, and in particular in defence, be compensated in subsequent years. But, as much as you have been right today, as much as you will have to act differently tomorrow, and your comments testify that you think so. You must embark on a thorough reform. You have given assurances in this respect; Of course, everything is in the details and in the way the commitments will be fulfilled, and our colleagues have asked you a thousand timely questions on this subject. It seems to me that you are carried by a dynamic and exposed to a risk. As a former European parliamentarian, I am well aware of the dynamics involved in the reform process. You are there: what you do in tax matters, in the local and social fields, will force you to do more. You've already gone too far to go any further. I welcome this because we need an in-depth overhaul of the system. You're on your way, which means you're not at the end of the way. We expect you to progress and nurture reform; What you are doing today is legitimate what you will do tomorrow, I hope, even more ambitious. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] The risk would be to make a perimeter error. If it is necessary to reform everything, the regalian must not be sanctified, abominable conservative word, but must be energized and protected. It is elsewhere, in intervention policies, in an ill-favoured social system, in a less and less providential and more expensive welfare state, that you must change everything so that everything is better. Don't be misguided: you have arrived with Emmanuel Macron, brought to power by audacity, and you must now move from boldness to courage, which is not the same thing. We are waiting for you on this transition and we will help you with all our heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u146	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u147	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this majority is not angry with taxation. We know all the imperfections and we want it to participate in the reconciliation of the French, households and companies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u148	And the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u149	...with growth. Because yes, to reconcile with taxation and tackle it without taboo, it is to reconcile with growth. Minister, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, you want to reduce the level of compulsory levies, in order to support the purchasing power of the middle classes, to enable employees to live better from their work, and to encourage productive investment. It is on this last point that I wish to address you today. Two measures of the President of the Republic's programme, which you are going to implement, ministers, and which are supported by this majority, show that we have understood the need to make taxation a tool for France's attractiveness and for the competitiveness of companies: on the one hand, the reduction of corporate tax and, on the other, the adjustment of the tax on financial transactions. Our corporate tax is known to be one of the highest in Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u150	Not for multinationals!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u151	... when he has a low yield. This can be explained by a cyclical effect, but also by generous provisions to reduce the bases by tax credits and reduced rates, which can sometimes create a boon effect for large companies. But General de Gaulle said, Mr Roussel, that there is only action in the truth. You said that the effective tax rate for large businesses was sometimes 7 to 8 per cent: let's say the truth, it is not 33 per cent, but it is around 24 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u152	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u153	The high facial rate of corporate tax undermines France's attractiveness and commits some of our companies to relocate their activities to other states, including members of the European Union. If the reduction in corporate tax, which will affect all businesses, from 33% to 25%...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u154	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u155	... is fast and accompanied by a European and French will to bring to fruition the draft consolidated common base for corporate tax, the CCCTB, our companies will be able to gain competitiveness, hire, and France will attract more foreign investors. Growth is back, and we must give it the means to settle: that is why we must act quickly. I understand, minister, that we will only be on track in the fall, but I have no doubt that it will be ambitious, and I expect that from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u156	Cirage!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u157	As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we must not only talk about rates, but also about taxable bases. If convergence towards the European average rate is a first step, we will also have to harmonise the bases for ending tax competition between Member States. In 2011, after five years of joint work between tax administrations, the European Commission presented the CCCTB initiative in order to harmonise corporate tax rules within the European Union; In the absence of unanimous agreement from the Member States, the project remained a dead letter until the OECD BEPS project – base erosion and profit shocking; erosion of taxable bases and transfer of profits – stimulates the debate. A new dynamic, more realistic in its content, has begun, and we must complete the work and reach an agreement. This is in keeping with your desire to move towards a fiscal union, Mr. Minister of the Economy. For how can we imagine a common budget without resources based on shared principles? It will be necessary to anticipate the effects of such a reform on the budgets of the Member States, in particular France. The financial transaction tax has been implemented for almost five years, and its rate has been raised last year in the 2017 Finance Act from 0.2 to 0.3 per cent, in order to finance development aid in particular. Today, this tax pays almost EUR 1 billion. Its base covers the purchase of securities from listed groups headquartered in France and capitalisation of more than EUR 1 billion. The Finance Act for 2017 provided for the extension of its base to intraday transactions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u158	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u159	I would like to ask ourselves today about the enlargement of this tax, since the objectives initially set have not necessarily been achieved. Beyond these technical tax considerations, companies expect, first and foremost, to invest and hire, a secure, trustworthy and responsive environment for our economy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as a young Member who wants to protect future generations, I think we should have the audacity to think of the future of our tax system as a system anchored in the current economy, that of the circular economy and digital economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u160	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u161	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, you spoke of a "break-up strategy." This speech can be agreed in the election campaign, but we should now clarify the most and the least in terms of revenue and budgetary expenditure. To date, you have announced cancellation and advance decrees amounting to €3.5 billion, as well as the freezing of the public service index point and the restoration of the deficit day in the same public service, which represents 2.4 billion; If we add up, we come, rounding up, to a total of €6 billion in savings by the end of the year. However, according to the Court of Auditors' latest estimates, the trend growth in public expenditure in volume amounts, excluding tax credits, to 1.5 points per year, i.e. EUR 20 billion. In addition, the Government considers that the measures adopted under the previous quinquennium will result in an additional expenditure of EUR 10 billion in 2018. So you have to make 30 billion euros of gross savings if you really want to keep spending at its current level. This is a difficult exercise, and you do not tell the French the truth. If you do not have sufficient control over spending, you will increase revenue, with two measures: the CSG and the faster increase in the carbon tax. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] You see the increase in the CSG as a measure of purchasing power: you had to dare to present an expenditure for households as a measure to promote their purchasing power! It is quite innovative and it is indeed a rupture. With this 1.7-point increase in the CSG, you will penalize 8 million retirees. I do not consider, unlike you, that a monthly pension of 1250 euros is a comfortable income. The increase in the CSG will represent a loss of purchasing power of 255 euros per year. To sum up, 60% of retirees will see their net income, most often modest, decline as of 2018. I don't forget the independents, but I think you haven't forgotten them either. With regard to the faster than expected increase in the carbon tax, the French fuel, gas and fuel consumers' energy bill will jump by €2 billion in 2018. It's a tax club thing, but you're not presenting it as such. The tax on the tonne of fuel today amounts to 30 euros, and you will raise it to 56 euros in 2020. In addition, you can imagine the convergence of diesel taxation with gasoline taxation. All of this will have a significant cost to households. I will conclude with the two flagship measures that are undermining the future of our territorial communities. The first is the exemption from the housing tax for 80 per cent of households, motivated by false pretexts. You have planned to compensate for the disappearance of this revenue, which represents 20 billion euros for local and regional authorities, to the tune of 3 billion for the first year, in 2018. How? Who will benefit from it? What are the calculations? The local elected representatives are rightly very concerned about this measure. How will you compensate for this loss of revenue? They are aware that their compensation will remove any momentum from this recipe for their future budget. On the other hand, last Monday, the President of the Republic told the representatives of local and regional authorities that they would again be put to work, not to the tune of 10 billion, as his programme provided for, but to the tune of 13 billion euros. There is something new: it will be done on a voluntary basis; We're gonna ask them to get hara-kiri! They have already suffered a loss of 11 billion of the overall operating allocation, and you are going to ask them for an additional 13 billion euros. Go to the end of your gait, remove them, have that courage! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These measures announced within a few weeks of a senatorial deadline remain deliberately blurred: the big voters will be able to draw all the consequences, and this debate on the direction of public finances does not seem to me sufficiently precise and documented. We must now go beyond the announcement effects, because we are no longer in the election campaign. In a word, concrete, ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u162	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u163	Ministers, you have just presented us with the ways in which we can restore public accounts and get out of the excessive deficit procedure that has been targeting us since 2009. In recent days, the majority has referred to the flattering opinion of the International Monetary Fund – IMF – and to the Court of Auditors' report. For my part, I would like to refer to the note published on 12 July by the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques. The OFCE has just analysed your guidelines and its verdict is severe on the reform of the taxation of savings and wealth. The richest households, those in the tenth decile, would be largely successful. Let's start with the wealth tax. The idea behind the reform of the ISF is that risk must be promoted, so that securities, shares and bonds can be removed from the tax base. Figaro revealed that of the three billion euros that this reform costs, two billion would benefit 3400 households, which would benefit on average from a tax reduction of 600,000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u164	Nice gift!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u165	If I understand the need to encourage the French to invest in our SMEs and ETIs, our middle-sized companies, which create jobs, I cannot endorse such a measure: no, the purchase of shares or bonds is not necessarily a risky investment. As regards the single flat-rate levy, more commonly known as flat tax, under the guise of simplification which I do not dispute the need, you set its single rate at 30%. According to the OFCE, ensuring the neutrality of this measure for the state budget would require the rate to be set at 41%. Otherwise, the cost to the State budget of full implementation would be around EUR 4 billion. And who would benefit from the crime, if I dare say so? There again 2830 households, i.e. 1 in 10000, would receive 1.3 billion euros. I would also like to mention the increase in the CSG to finance measures to promote the purchasing power of employees. The aim is to eliminate sickness and unemployment contributions in order to promote the purchasing power of the assets. Here too, the gain will be all the more important as the salary is high: for a salary of 1500 euros per month, the annual gain will be 264 euros, but for a salary of 4000 euros per month, the gain will be 708 euros. And I'm not even talking about civil servants, independents and retirees who, on the other hand, will lose every time. I have heard that compensatory measures are under consideration. The problem is that for now it's the Arlesian: we talk about it but we don't see them. "You have to take the money where it is, that is, among the poor. All right, they don't have much money, but there are a lot of poor people," said Alphonse Allais. At home, it was humor; With you, it will become the reality of the French. I now turn to the announcements made by the executive at the first National Conference of Territories that met last Monday in the Senate. The Head of State indicated that he wished to establish a relationship of trust between the State and local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u166	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u167	I fully agree with this objective, but here too I do not agree with the means he intends to use to achieve it. The President said that local authorities had to cut their spending by EUR 13 billion over five years. If they do not execute next year, they will be punished on their endowments. Do you really believe that you can build confidence through what is like blackmail? Do you also believe that it is by removing some of the elected representatives concerned that you will be able to restore a link of trust with them? To achieve savings, it is envisaged to reduce the number of local elected officials, but of the 550,000 that our country counts, only 40,000 are compensated. So you're going to have to explain to us, minister, how you intend to make business savings by removing elected volunteers. I have to admit, I'm having a hard time following your arithmetic logic. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, LR, FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are never too many elected officials, never too much democracy, never too much citizenship, and the elected representatives are their representatives. Rather than stigmatizing local elected officials, let us pay tribute to them for their dedication to the service of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u169	Finally, you propose to exempt 80% of French households from housing tax. Last Monday, the Head of State said: "This tax increases the injustice between territorial inequalities, so it is not a good tax". That is true: the housing tax is an unfair tax that does not take sufficient account of each person's ability to contribute. Cadastral values are one of the main causes of this inequity. But you have just announced that they would not be revised. As for the outright abolition of the housing tax, it will of course not solve the question of territorial inequalities. The question also arises of its legality with regard to the constitutional principle of local self-government. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We will meet in the fall to discuss all of these issues and your real proposals, ministers, during the discussion of the 2018 Finance Bill. Yes, France has a higher level of public spending than other European countries, and we need to evaluate our public policies. But it also has better social protection: the Gini index is there to prove it, as long as we are interested in indicators other than GDP and compulsory levies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u171	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u172	We're finally going to talk politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u173	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are being told of a break in this new budgetary direction; Quite frankly, I see nothing original or even new here. The decline in public spending continues: €4.5 billion from this year onwards, €18 billion announced next year. As for the so-called structural reform of the labour market, it is a deregulation with exemptions and a fall in the revenue of the State. In reality, you are proposing to aggravate what is not already working. It's not a Copernician revolution, it's Molière's Imaginary Sick. Dr. Diafoirus always advocated more bleeding to treat the patient while in reality it weakened him. With such a policy, the patient will die. On the question of revenue, I will mention three elements. First, you continue to weaken the redistributive role of tax, while consent to tax underpins our Republic. It is noted that the share of tax households that pay income taxes has been declining for years. And what do you propose? To transfer this tax more and more to fixed-rate taxes: the CSG, a flat tax that you create, the VAT, which has compensated a lot of the tax gifts made to businesses through the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment. You say you want to lower taxes, but in reality you enrich the rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u175	Nor is this new: this tax "counter-reform" was launched years ago by Ms. Thatcher and resulted in a trend reduction in the maximum tax rate of twenty-five points. You say that it is to increase purchasing power: I take it that for you popular consumption is the fact of the richest. I'm not saying it, it's the OFCE: according to the Board, 46% of the tax cuts you're proposing for next year will benefit the richest 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u176	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u177	Why such a policy? Wouldn't there be enough rich people in France? They're suffering in this country? It is curious, when we know that it ranks third in the world, after the United States and Japan, in number of millionaires. Last year, billionaires saw their incomes increase by 21%, as my communist colleague said earlier. And this is obviously not new, since in twenty years the ten largest fortunes of France have seen their wealth multiplied by twelve, while the national wealth was multiplied by only two. And it would be very surprising if we were told that we want to reward those who rise earlier, while the share of heritage inherited in the global heritage has continued to grow: it was 40 per cent in 1970, it is now 70 per cent. With this policy, the nobility of money becomes a new nobility of blood. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You weaken the state, you weaken the tax only to enrich the richest. Mr Darmanin, you said you had to attack evil at the root. The evil that strikes us today is rent and finance. But you're spoiling them even more. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] However, the share of cake has continued to grow: national wealth is much more important than in 1946, when social security and other mechanisms of national solidarity were invented. To all those who say that pensions, health would cost too much, I answer that the problem in our country, as in other industrialized countries, is the ever greater transfer of income from labour to income from capital. It has been found with the CICE, of which it is difficult to say how many job creations it has allowed – in any case they are very expensive, between 300,000 and 600,000 euros. However, you propose to maintain it in the form of a reduction in social contributions. You're telling us it's to raise wages, but it's a scam! You are actually proposing to remove their socialised salary from the employee's pocket in order to make it look like giving it back to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u178	Give me your watch, I'll tell you the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The results of this policy, Mr. Le Maire, you who did not say the word "unemployment" in your opening remarks, are two curves that continue to rise: that of dividends and that of unemployment. For what is expensive in our country, as elsewhere, we say very clearly, it is not work, it is capital. In the face of such a finding, I wonder: either it is complicity with the financial oligarchy, and I think that for some it is exactly that; or it is ignorance, in which case, ladies and gentlemen, we have all summer to reflect on this proposed budgetary stance. For my part, I do not think that there are any groups in this Chamber that are "valued", as I heard on the radio this morning. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I shall sum up this budgetary stance as follows: for the rich, it is always more summer; For the poor, it's season 7 of Game of Thrones: winter always comes faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u180	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are discussing the construction of our future accounts, it seems to me necessary to feed into the discussions that we have just had on our past accounts and on the plan of savings that was submitted to Parliament recently. The Court of Auditors' report and the advance decrees presented in recent days have shown that many public service tasks are clearly under-budgeted. I will take an example of the current situation which makes the link between the past and the future: that of the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration", of which I will be the Special Rapporteur and which is directly concerned by the recent decrees in advance. Of the only "Immigration and Asylum" programme, 217 million euros of additional commitment authorisations have been opened for a total budget of 935 million euros voted in the draft finance law for 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u182	It was necessary to take account of the increase in migratory flows!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u183	With the additional EUR 122 million for emergency shelter for migrants, the budget gap exceeds one third of the budget voted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u184	If not, we'd ruin the sleep shoppers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u185	Should these additional appropriations be made available?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u186	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u187	Yes, of course, and to do so we had to make bold savings. Is such a budget gap acceptable? Of course, it is difficult to anticipate the arrival of an increasing number of asylum seekers. The Court of Auditors, however, points to structural sub-budgeting on this programme. If these are legal, they nevertheless pose a problem of transparency for the elected representatives of the nation and for our fellow citizens, which can only affect confidence in our accounts and in our institutions. With regard to the future, the Prime Minister recently presented a plan to guarantee the right to asylum and to control immigration flows. It includes important commitments that will have strong budgetary consequences. I will mention three of them: creating 7,500 places of accommodation for asylum seekers, including 4000 from 2018 and 5000 places for refugees...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u188	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u189	... reduce the time taken to process asylum applications by OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – finally increase the proportion of applicants who have been rejected returning to the border. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Through this concrete example, ministers, I wanted to stress the obligation that we have vis-à-vis our fellow citizens and our European partners to put an end to these sub-budgeting practices which sometimes cast doubt on the sincerity of our finance bills, but also to build our future accounts taking into account not only our budgetary history but also the future tasks that we commit ourselves to fulfilling with our fellow citizens. Parliament and the special rapporteurs in the Committee on Finance will have to play a very active role in this, and you can count on us to take our full part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u190	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u191	The meeting was resumed. Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance – he is not here – the rapporteur-general – he is not here either – and ladies and gentlemen, this report on the orientation of public finances proposes to us, without doubt, like all the others before him, a trajectory of public finances that will not be respected because it is untenable. It is so true that you pretended to discover a budget slip now two weeks ago, justifying new budget cuts, which led us to the biggest political-military crisis in the Fifth Republic with the resignation of General de Villiers yesterday morning. How can the President of the Republic make it appear that he discovers a budgetary slippage by accusing the government in which he participated without taking the French for fools? How can former Prime Minister Manuel Valls, who sits on the benches of your majority, make it appear that he discovers a budgetary slippage from his government without taking the French too for idiots? You present yourself as outstanding managers and visionaries, while you are only the applied students of Brussels. So now you are looking, in disaster, for 4.5 billion euros to get into the nails of the European financial coffin, and you are announcing a decrease in expenditure of three points of GDP in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that hospital managers and hospital staff can no longer ask their services to cut their budgets to the detriment of the sick and to have to manage hospital beds as we run a hotel with an eternal fullness?Do you realize that patients can no longer be regarded as burdensome rather than as patients to be treated and that every year the long list of medicines that are not reimbursed is extended? Families can only be asked to do so, particularly on family allowances. Students can no longer be denied housing because there are not enough student residences for them, while, as we have just heard, accommodation solutions for migrants are found. Researchers can no longer see their public research budgets decline year after year. Residents of rural areas can no longer lack access to mobility because infrastructure is missing or deteriorated. The French forgotten in the peripheries of the metropolises can no longer afford to pay for the same internet subscriptions as the inhabitants of the metropolises without having access to the same services. The police can no longer work in deplorable and understaffed conditions. It is no longer possible for military personnel to be unable to carry out their missions with high-quality equipment. Citizens can no longer have time for endless justice due to the lack of sufficient public resources. Local elected officials no longer accept being pointed out as an inexhaustible source of economy. In short, the French can no longer do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u193	We can't do it either!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u194	They can no longer do so imposed austerity, which reduces their quality of life, and these dark cuts that you announce without attacking the real possibilities of savings and, ultimately, without a true spirit of reform. And when they can't, the French ask themselves questions: all these efforts for what? For who? They want a profound change of model and not the worsening of the one that is in place and that has led to these terrible results. They want the state to invest in their quality of life, and you owe it to them. The French are not fooled: they understand that it is the sovereign functions of the State – health, education, justice, security – that are affected and ultimately transferred by whole sections to an unelected European administration. In reality, you have no ability to change things or imagine a "new world," contrary to what you are trying to make believe. Your savings proposals are only dictated by others. The increase in the CSG, to which you yourself were opposed, Minister, is an example. Your logic is always the same: to weaken the nation-state in favour of a supranational structure, the European Union, which, moreover, punctures us eight billion euros a year. For the austerity imposed favours the dismantling of public services to which the French are attached; It leads us to their constant dismantling. Because austerity prevents the return of growth. After the 2008 crisis, the Americans were the first to launch a massive investment plan. But you are refusing to implement such a plan because of the Maastricht dogma. One example is the finally announced, or rather murmured, abandonment of the Seine-Nord Canal project. For austerity, at last, favours only a handful of privileged people living in the metropolises, the others being ordered to bear the effort on their own. Ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes! This European convergence you want is only a façade. It impoverishes Southern Europe for the sole benefit of our German partner. It destroys our social model. As you know, there will never be any European convergence towards the French social model. Instead, you claim to make our tax system fairer by draining the local authorities, who are the only ones to invest still where the state has given up. Or you reform the ISF in a very clumsy and ultimately counterproductive way. You are refusing to tackle social fraud, the costs of immigration – recalled at the moment by our colleague Stanislas Guerini – the inepties of city policy, the structural costs of regions and agglomerations. For our part, we will refuse this trajectory of public finances until the general interest of the French people, who are constantly asked to make efforts, is respected. Because we still believe in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u197	Madam President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the alarming state of affairs in our public finances has been highlighted, in particular by the Court of Auditors. For 2017, for example, three instruments of budgetary regulation were used to keep the deficit below the 3% of GDP mark: advance decrees for three billion euros; cancellation decrees, for about three hundred million euros and additional reorganization measures. With regard to the cancellation of appropriations, three ministries to the Regalian missions concentrated almost half of the total budgetary effort, which was surprising and worrying, in a context of counter-terrorism and a state of emergency: the amount of appropriations cancelled amounted to 850 million for the Defence Mission, 244 million for the Security Mission, and 160 million for the Justice Mission. On the additional recovery measures, amounting to €1,153 billion, we have repeatedly requested clarification from the Government, and again last Tuesday, during the consideration of the settlement bill. We were told that we would have elements on Thursday on the measures relating to personalized housing subsidies – APL – and the reduction of the volume of contracts assisted in the second half of 2017. We still don't have those details.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u198	Neither do they!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u199	We're waiting for clarification!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u200	I stress the concern raised by these additional recovery measures, which are relatively important: 1,153 billion euros concentrated over six months of the year, is almost the equivalent of 2.4 billion euros in the full year!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u201	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u202	It is therefore important that we have some clarifications. I now come to the year 2018. The Government plans to reduce mandatory levies by €20 billion by 2022, and by €11 billion by 2018. Moreover, with a neutral effect for the State, you decide to increase the CSG by 1.7%, which would be compensated for only part of the French by a removal of the sickness contribution and the unemployment contribution. In addition, last Monday, in front of the National Conference of Territories, the President of the Republic stated his intention to impose on local authorities a reduction in their spending of thirteen billion euros, in addition to the 11 billion savings achieved in previous years. Ministers, I have many points of agreement with you, in particular on the reduction of compulsory levies and expenditure. We need to spend less, and better – everything is always perfect. But I'm worried about the device you're proposing. I'm worried about rural life. Two billion euros will be taken directly from the pockets of rural areas, and only from them, since, you know, it is mainly in these territories that diesel is used, and in the first place the families and professionals who live there. Again, no solid compensation is foreseen for rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u203	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u204	I am concerned about the self-employed who are today announced to increase the CSG by 1.7%. However, the burden of the RSI, which is far too large, weighs on the self-employed, the farmers, the artisans, the traders, our TPEs and SMEs on a daily basis. To date, no specific compensation has been proposed. Will there be compensation? Will it be partial, of the order of 50%, as has been mentioned? There is no clear announcement. This is not acceptable to all our self-employed workers, who are fighting on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u206	I am also concerned about our communities, which will suffer from the removal of the parliamentary reserve, to which 13 billion additional savings are requested, while their spending has already fallen by 11 billion, and which will lose housing tax revenues, and thus financial self-sufficiency. Of course, ministers, your intentions are commendable and your will is honourable, but we have points of disagreement. I would mention only two of them in the context of my conclusion. First, it is absolutely abnormal that, under the guise of sub-budgeting, funds for legitimate security, justice and defence missions are simply cancelled, while the security of the French must remain a priority objective. Each time, in such situations, it is the pilotable credits that are undermined, never the non-pilotable credits. Secondly, the rural areas are the most forgotten of your guidelines: the reduction in appropriations, the savings of EUR 13 billion, the uncertain future of the parliamentary reserve, the levy of EUR 2 billion for the harmonisation of taxation on diesel and the increase of 1.7% of the contributions of the RSI for a large number of SMEs and TPEs and the contributions of the MSA for our farmers, which will cut their incomes all the more. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am therefore calling for an alert and I look forward to the consideration of these concerns in the 2018 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u208	Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, as the General Food States of the President of the Republic begin this morning in Paris, I would like to take advantage of this policy debate on public finances to draw up a picture of the fundamental issues at stake for our agriculture and agri-food industry. The agricultural sector suffers from a particularly degraded economic situation: the years 2015 and 2016 and the successive crises affecting most animal sectors, the climatic hazards in the cereals sector and the health difficulties in the poultry sector have led many farmers to earn indecent incomes. One third of farmers earned less than EUR 354 per month in 2016, according to the MSA. Net earnings per asset decreased by 27% compared to 2015. The figures presented by INSEE on 6 July last at the Committee on the Accounts for Agriculture of the Nation challenge us: the value of French production, excluding subsidies, estimated at €69.5 billion, has decreased by €4.9 billion, a decrease of 6.6%. Even today, the lack of prospects for improving the economic situation in the milk, sheep, meat and poultry sectors weighs on the morale of our farmers. It is not Brexit and the new reform of the CAP post-2020 that today bring elements of peace of mind for the profession. In particular, French farmers aspire to reduce or cushion price volatility. It is still too early to know what will result from the European negotiations and the new regulation resulting from the Sapin 2 law aimed at moralizing the relations between our farmers, the agri-food industry and large-scale distribution. Another subject of inquiry, societal expectations rise in power, year after year. The development of alternative eggs, organic farming and the various specifications for territorial products accelerates and disrupts our sectors, which are not always sufficiently reactive. Consumers are now interested in the origin of the products, animal welfare, the consequences for their health, the modes of production, and that is very good. These constraints can become an opportunity for our agriculture if we collectively meet these expectations. The plan for the competitiveness and adaptation of farms put in place by the previous Government to modernize our production tools meets the expectations of our farmers. Despite the crisis, investment in buildings increased slightly, by 0.8%, in 2016, compared to investment in equipment, which decreased by 4.8%. This effort must be continued, if not intensified, because our production tools are ageing compared to our German or Polish competitors, and do not achieve performance levels, both in terms of energy and technology. The ambitious €5 billion investment programme for agriculture over five years proposed by our majority will allow access to new funding for projects to modernise environmentally friendly farms. It will also cover projects for the development of processing and distribution activities that promote short circuits and cooperative projects. Farmers are also, and above all, entrepreneurs, and they will benefit from the announced measures to free up work. They do not want the creation of added value to be immediately dilapidated and crushed by the price war waged by the large distribution. The re-evaluation of the Young Farmer staffing, the ADI, is also expected. Agricultural fiscal policies are not intended to be formulated in the course of successive crises. They must be part of a sustainable and stable model that gives our farmers more visibility and protection. On the other hand, I agree with the Minister for Action and Public Accounts about the need to evaluate public policies in terms of their results rather than means. I believe that greater ex post checking is all the more appropriate as we are going through periods of crisis, which call for a change in budgetary expenditure over the course of the year. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Budgetary policies are not the only ones that have a concrete impact on agriculture, but they represent an essential part of the actions that can be taken. France has many assets, thanks to a very diversified agriculture. Let us give it the means to be both competitive in Europe and to respond to the major challenges posed by the Twenty-First Conference of the Parties – COP 21 – and the aspirations of consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u210	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u211	Madam President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee, first of all a point of method: we are talking about the recasting of the budgetary procedure and the debate on the orientation of public finances, but perhaps it would be time to review the procedure: since this morning we have been witnessing less a debate than a succession of monologues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u212	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u213	If we want to modernise the functioning of Parliament, it may be necessary to ask what is the point of mobilising Members who do not listen for hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u214	They're listening to each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u215	I'm coming to the bottom of the subject. The starting point of this public finance policy debate is distorted. The Government announced a savings plan of €4.5 billion in 2017, in the State sphere alone, in order to meet the famous 3% GDP deficit target. The €850 million savings made on the Ministry of Armed Forces relate to the acquisition of equipment that will have to be purchased sooner or later, given the level of engagement of the armies – I will not recall the epiphenomena of yesterday and the day before. The EUR 160 million savings on the Justice Mission relate to real estate projects, a number of which are under way. This could therefore be a simple carry-over of invoices to 2018. A total of EUR 256 million in savings is made on the Ministry of the Interior. In detailing this plan of economy, we find that this is not really a right-wing policy. If I was a little teasing with the two ministers, I'd say they didn't learn the best lessons from Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium! The budget of the Ministries of Justice, the Interior and the Armed Forces should not be reduced. The Government's financial policy is therefore misleading and short-term: it makes some 1.5 billion euro carry-overs for 2018, which distorts the starting point of our debate. Then what is the orientation? At the budgetary level, you promise to lower the amount of compulsory levies, to stabilise public finances, to save 2 to 2.4 billion euros. The freezing of the index point in the public service and the restoration of the deficiency day represent just over one-tenth of the savings needed in public administration. All of this casts doubt on the announced fall in compulsory levies, especially since, as Mr de Courson said very well, the rise in tobacco prices does not translate into an increase in revenues, due to an eviction rate of 27%. Whenever the government increased the price of the cigarette package, the revenue received fell the following year. Of course, this decline stabilizes after some time, but this provision is not necessarily the martingale. With regard to the 2018 budget, the audit of the Court of Auditors' public finances identified a risk of an increase in State expenditure of EUR 7 billion. It focuses on the risks related to payroll, in particular due to the agreement "Professional paths, careers and remuneration" signed by the previous government at the end of the mandate, which provides for the transformation of premiums into index points, which will have an increasing budgetary impact: €2.4 billion in 2018; EUR 3.1 billion in 2019; EUR 3.7 billion in 2020. As a result, the wage bill will increase mechanically. This is a subject on which we should have a real debate. It is therefore time to rethink public finances intelligently, and my conclusion will focus on five points. First, the well-being of the economy, i.e. the objective, must pass before the means, i.e. the rule. Debt is not, in itself, good or bad. What matters is the trajectory and the reason for the debt: if it's to invest, it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u216	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u217	Secondly, I am totally opposed to the idea of moving towards greater integration of the European Union with the creation of a European Ministry of Finance. We did not hear the message of the last presidential election: in the first round, half of the country voted for very widely Eurosceptic parties, not to say anti-Europeans. It is necessary to put an end to fiscal pharidianism, which is to prefer the law in the sense of the Bible message. The important thing is the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u218	It's just so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u219	Secondly, we need to rethink the tax system in order to adapt it to the 21st century, in particular by focusing on the taxation of digital byte flows. When the car was invented, we thought of taxing it and stopped taxing the diligences. Thirdly, we must maintain fiscal coherence – when I see that entrepreneurs are going to do the tax administration's work on income tax and that the social partners are going to manage the CSG's product! Fourthly, communication measures must be removed. We're unable to reform the housing tax, so we're removing it. In these circumstances, since we have been unable to reform the state for 30 years, are we going to come up with radical solutions? Since they are unable to remove levels of local government, they are forced to massive economies, while the real solution would be to make the status of the civil service more flexible in order to give them room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u220	Please conclude, Mr. Aubert.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u221	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, there is a need to rethink the economic balance. With regard to the social system for the self-employed, we must obviously expect an increase in contributions, which will be bad. With regard to energy policy, the abolition of oil exploration permits and diesel measures are not in favour of refineries and the petrochemical industry, and at the same time the nuclear industry is being scared.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u222	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u223	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this first five-year public finance policy debate gives our majority the opportunity to reaffirm its budgetary commitments. The debt accumulated through successive renunciations is an economic and moral burden that we do not have the right to bequeath to our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u224	The catechism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u225	A reduction in public spending by three points of GDP is inevitable in order to maintain our financial sovereignty and credibility with our European partners and to offer our children a future. Good management is a virtue that must also prevail in the French political world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u226	Austerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u227	To the army?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u228	As Special Co-Rapporteur of the budget mission "Relations with local and regional authorities", I will focus on their financial future. What effort is required of them? Is it sustainable? How to implement it? Local and regional authorities are affected by this effort to control public expenditure to the tune of EUR 13 billion. I hear here or there that only local authorities will be involved: that's not true! The savings plan will mobilise all public administrations, including the State, operators and social security agencies. Are savings at this level sustainable? I believe it. Of course, the local authorities have already made great efforts in recent years. Thus, an increase in operating expenditures in 2016 of 0.9% illustrates their responsibility. However, containing expenses one after the other is no longer sufficient. We need to go further in our capacity for reform, rupture, reorganization and rationalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u229	It's a purge you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u230	I will take three examples. First, the creation in recent years of new strata of communities without any real clarification of their skills or control of their spending has significantly reduced the cost of public action without increasing its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u231	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u233	The Court of Auditors noted last year that the number of territorial staff increased by 405000 between 2002 and 2013. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] As far as skills are concerned, let us take the example of tourism, which you know. How many directions per territory, metropolis, region, department, intercommunality, or even by municipality? Beyond the problem of costs, the issue is above all one of the effectiveness of public action. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, the elected representatives have a fundamental role, recognised by all here, in the functioning of our territories, in democratic life, or in social cohesion. If we want to reduce its number, it is not to make savings, it is to increase efficiency and responsiveness in a world in continuous transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u234	It's not enough to make beautiful speeches! Which elected officials are targeted?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u235	It is a question not of savings but of efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u236	Which ones, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u237	There is one elected person per 100 inhabitants in France, while in Germany there is one elected person per 500 inhabitants. Thirdly, how can this transformation be implemented? Emmanuel Macron, at the National Conference of Territories, drew up a favourable framework to accompany these elected representatives and their territories in their transformation over the next five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u238	The knife under your throat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u239	It's a profound change of method.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u240	Purge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u241	The confidence pact proposed by the Government aims to give more freedom of organization and management to the territories. There will be no unilateral decision; no single decision for all, no centralised decision. No: Local authorities will be best able to propose savings that will preserve their investment capacities while taking into account their specificities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u242	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u243	To help them, an investment plan of fifty billion will support, among other things, the economic development of these territories, the acceleration of the very high-speed plan, the development of mobility and the creation of a territorial cohesion agency – these are just a few examples. One of the red lines of the framework set by the President of the Republic is inequality between territories: special attention will therefore be paid to equalization mechanisms in order to guarantee genuine equality of opportunity between territories. An increase in the envelopes for the allocation of urban solidarity – DSU – and the allocation of rural solidarity – DSR – as well as a reform of the overall operating allocation – DGF – seem essential to me in order to mitigate the impact of the savings requested from the most fragile municipalities and to reduce the inequalities of wealth between territories. Community taxation is also part of this confidence pact. It has become illegible and a source of inequality. The housing tax is the perfect illustration of this. It is doubly unjust, from a social point of view and between the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u244	What will replace it? By a state endowment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u245	Minister, we will be vigilant about compensation to communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u246	By whom?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u247	They will have to be with the euro in the near and long term and allow for the dynamic establishment of the base. Of course, a major effort is required from local authorities. It is, however, consistent with what is being asked of all public administrations, and imperative for our future. There are opportunities for savings and transformation, within the framework of an unprecedented confidence pact between the Government and local communities aimed at achieving the best solution for all. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ministers, you have understood this: you can count on the support of the majority The Republic on its way to finance and fulfil the presidential commitments while ensuring that our debt is controlled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u248	On the road to austerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u249	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u250	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as we reflect on the direction of our public finances, I think it is useful to recall two fundamental principles. The first is that our public finances interfere in three directions: supply, demand, our public services. The second is that the emphasis, more or less pronounced, on one or the other of these directions depends on the economic situation. At the beginning of the quinquennium, my conviction is that, without neglecting the supply, of course, the construction of the budget for 2018 must not forget neither the demand nor the public services, starting with education. Don't ignore the offer, I said. Of course this is better, it is indisputable. The Ernst and Young barometer's figures on France's attractiveness published last May pointed out that after an already more favourable 2015 year than the previous one, foreign investment projects jumped by 30% in 2016 compared to 2015, increasing job creation by 24% and even by 61% since 2012. That is to say, if the trend is positive, especially since the fall in the price of raw materials since the beginning of the year will curb the rise in prices and will strengthen the competitiveness and thus the attractiveness of our manufactures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u251	We had to keep Holland if it went so well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u252	Similarly, the CAC 40 Financial Profile study released this month points out that large companies have strengthened their balance sheet, de-indebted themselves and improved their profitability and cash flow. Of course, I agree with the measures announced by the Government to strengthen the Paris financial centre and the tax arrangements and tax cuts for businesses, especially SMEs, defended by the future President of the Republic during the presidential campaign. They are all the more useful since, unfortunately, despite the good results I have recalled, the figures for our exports and therefore for external trade remain disappointing. At the same time...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u253	The macronian lexicon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u254	... I think it is important to stress that, at the stage of the economic cycle in which France is located, while it is essential not to lose sight of the conditions for the competitiveness of supply, we must at the same time support the engine of growth with measures to support demand and therefore with tax measures of purchasing power. The household consumption indicator, which fell by 0.4 per cent in the first quarter, is also of concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u255	This is worth a break in the rise of the CSG!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u256	In this regard, in view of the commitments that our majority made during the legislative campaign, it is essential, Minister, to provide for a reduction in the housing tax from Budget 2018, particularly for the most modest of our fellow citizens. Unfair and unequal taxation between cities, neighbourhoods and even streets in the same neighbourhood, the housing tax is a tax of another time which, each year, in the autumn, represents a heavy expenditure for many households that does not take into account income.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u257	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u258	The time for its reform has come, and for rapid reform – I hope as early as 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u259	Replaced by what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u260	Finally, a budget is also expenditure for the operation of public services. We all have the necessary defence priorities in mind...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u261	Did you say the defense?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u262	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u263	...security, justice and employment. For my part, given the scope of the special report for which I am responsible on behalf of the Committee on Finance, I would like to stress education. The draft budget for 2018 will have to bear the mark of our commitments for primary school, namely the reduction of the number of pupils per class in the priority area, without dismembering the equally useful scheme "more teachers than classes", support for educational success actions or the "Informatique pour tous" plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u264	Above all, we should stop closing classes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u265	I would add that the effort to integrate and train people recruited to accompany children with disabilities will have to be continued. Ladies and gentlemen, we all wish a society that can find a place for all its children. An inclusive society begins with an inclusive school. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] A budget proposal must have clear political priorities. These seem essential to me for 2017 and 2018. Thank you, Minister, for hearing me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u266	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u267	Ah! We missed that word!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u268	Madam President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to congratulate the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u269	A little brush stroke for the road!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u270	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] ...which, for the first time in many years, obtained a positive opinion from the International Monetary Fund as part of its annual review of the country's economic policy, published this Monday.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u271	It is the IMF that decides our policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u272	For example, Christian Mumssen, Deputy Director of the IMF's Europe Department and Head of Mission France, considered the economic programme "ambitious", "complete" and "balanced", adding that it could "help solve the long-standing economic challenges facing France".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u273	We must put the IMF at the head of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u274	Those blood suckers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u275	As announced by the Prime Minister on 4 July, in his policy statement, the five-year public finance trajectory pursues two objectives: to lower the tax burden by one point of the gross domestic product and to reduce public spending by three points of GDP. On this last point, the Government is planning an effort of EUR 80 billion on the quinquennium. This trajectory was considered "appropriate" by the International Monetary Fund since, as its report points out, "public expenditure is at the heart of the long-standing problem of French public finances". It is also widely advocated by the Court of Auditors following its audit of public finances. To this end, numerous tax measures have been announced, one of which has had a particular echo during the presidential campaign: the exemption from the housing tax for 80% of French citizens, which will be progressively implemented from 2018. Having direct action on the purchasing power of the French, this exemption is all the more welcome since the housing tax is, as has already been said on several occasions, an unfair and outdated tax. Indeed, calculated without any consideration of income and based on a cadastral rental value based on criteria largely unchanged since 1970, or for more than forty years, this tax is misunderstood and inconsistent. However, I hear the concerns expressed by the local authorities, for whom the housing tax represents more than EUR 22 billion in revenue if we add the amount of the State's rebates to the EUR 19 billion paid by households under this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u276	The housing tax is the condition of the tax autonomy of the communities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u277	For example, the housing tax accounted for 35% of municipal tax revenues in 2015. As such, the statement made by the President of the Republic at the territorial conference held last Tuesday in the Senate is an additional element of the response to the State's commitment to compensate for this loss of revenue. Thus, aware of the need to rethink the system of local taxes, the Head of State announced...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u278	New taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u279	... the establishment of a working committee on the reform of local taxation, which will consider, inter alia, alternative measures to the housing tax. Although this announcement is recent and, as a result, no clarification has yet been given as to the actual modalities for the establishment of the Commission, this measure demonstrates the Government's awareness of the magnitude of the problems and financial difficulties faced by the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u280	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u281	Having myself been mayor until last week, I know these difficulties. I will therefore pay particular attention to the work carried out by this committee. All of the tax measures announced to date respond well to the major challenge we face in the area of public finances: to correct the country's public accounts. As our rapporteur-general pointed out in his information report, France has been the subject of an excessive deficit procedure initiated by the European Commission since 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u282	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u283	While 15 countries have been the subject of such a procedure, only two countries are still involved today: France and Spain. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The roadmap I have drawn up therefore seems to me to be an adequate and effective response to restore, in the long term, the balance of our public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u285	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u286	Madam President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Deputy Vice-President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, a very legitimate concern, at the heart of the action of the President of the Republic and of the Government, is highlighted in the various exchanges that we have in this House in particular. It can be found both in the positions taken by the ministers responsible and in the communication and pedagogy efforts carried out in the context of the debate on the orientation of public finances. This major, well-founded concern concerns the use of our public funds: it is a reflection – an inflection, I should say – on how to make our spending more effective. Many of my colleagues have just recalled this: today we are facing a very serious budgetary situation. The audit carried out by the Court of Auditors revealed the risk of a sharp slippage in the public deficit in 2017 that would further distance France from its European commitments. At present, we are faced with a categorical imperative of preserving confidence, which is a condition for maintaining our economic sovereignty and our credibility on the European scene. No, it is not now a question of blindly cutting spending at the risk of penalising programmes whose action clearly benefits many of our citizens. But in the difficult budgetary context of ours, we have an obligation to restore the balance of public accounts, and therefore to identify and reorient the least relevant, least efficient expenditure. It is a global effort that is required. It will be a long-term task, and we are fully aware of that. To do better with means forced on a global level, to optimize public action for all while preserving protections for everyone and rethinking the processes: that is the challenge we have to face. Previous quinquennats have been marked by the major initiatives of the general review of public policies – RGPP – and the modernization of public action – MAP. Despite the noble intentions that guided them, it must be noted that they have not yet found a sufficiently concrete translation...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u287	They've been arrested!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u288	... in the area of State reform, rationalisation of public action and reduction of expenditure. For my part, I wish to return today to a particular issue which I have had the pleasure and opportunity to know, on the same footing, I am sure, that many of my colleagues from civil society in this House. This is the social protection of the self-employed, on which consideration is being given. A key measure in the campaign of the President of the Republic was the abolition of the social system of the self-employed and the attachment of persons subject to the general system of social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u289	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u290	With the same retirement as the MPs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u291	This was in response to a well-known situation: the RSI was difficult to read for its beneficiaries, often faced with computational errors, drifts and substantial complexity. A survey published by the self-employed union in February 2017 revealed that more than 76% of respondents had a negative opinion of the RSI and that half of them had had difficulties with the organization in the previous two years. How not to hear them, how not to understand them in the face of the complexity and shortcomings of a system which last February asked a retired carpenter from the Loire to repay him no less than 2 billion euros? I'm sure you remember.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u292	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u293	[[Smile]] The refund could still be spread over time...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u294	Today, such a system deserves to be reformed, not only to try at all costs to achieve management savings – even if this will be a happy and fundamental consequence of a reform of the system – but above all to offer a better solution to the first concerned, the self-employed, and to give serenity to those who are too often afraid of having to face mistakes, to the outstanding RSI. In order to reduce the complexity of its operation and to put an end to the turpitudes it has generated among traders, artisans, self-employed, TPEs and SMEs, we need to find a solution that allows us to achieve management savings while guaranteeing a reasonable price offer. Of course, the stakes are complex. On Tuesday 18 July, the Minister of Solidarity and Health announced that a mission had been entrusted to the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – IGAS – and the Inspectorate General of Finance – IGF – on this subject. This is what we are doing today: offering quality services at the most reasonable cost possible, in order to ensure at the same time the efficiency and sustainability of our social model and our collective choices. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, I know and I want to believe that our House, the self-employed and businesses, will find in you, as long as necessary, high quality interlocutors, open to debate, bearing in mind the dual imperative of safeguarding the state's accounts and improving public action for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u295	They're the ones who set up the RSI!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u296	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] "The company manager is considered a man to shoot or a milk cow," Churchill said beautifully. Few people see him as a horse pulling the plow. There are many independent horses, ministers. They're lonely, they're counting on you, they need you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u297	[[Smile]] It's better to be a trait horse than a milking cow!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u298	Please, Mr. Aubert...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u299	You're not raising the level, Mr. Aubert!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u300	Your point is sexist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u301	[[Smile]] It's better to be a trait horse than a Trojan horse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u302	I remind you that Xavier Bertrand set up the RSI!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u303	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u304	Madam President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, who is responsible for replacing our rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the draft regulation for 2016 at first reading last Tuesday, comes the time for this famous budget orientation debate which we have already largely started during the first sittings of this extraordinary session. The challenge, both for the Government and for the majority, is to create in this legislature the conditions for a return to growth, a consolidation of our public finances and, above all, a sharp reduction in the number of job-seekers. No one here will be able to dispute the relevance of these three axes! The Court of Auditors has recently detailed the difficulties of our country. We have had enough debate on this subject, so I will not go back to it. In order to bring our public accounts back to balance and reduce the tax burden, the Government has decided to cut taxes and public expenditure at the same time. I will focus on some topics. As Special Co-Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance on the mission "Relations with local authorities" and former elected, even if I no longer have a local executive function, I will discuss three subjects in relation to local authorities. In this area, the first lever, which has been mentioned a great deal and which you have retained, Mr. Minister for Action and Public Accounts, at the request of the President of the Republic, is the exemption of 80 per cent of households from the housing tax. As the Head of State pointed out last Monday in the Senate, the housing tax is not based on the contributing capacities of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u305	Neither is the CSG!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u306	It is therefore unfair territorially and socially – that has already been said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u307	What do you want to replace her with?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u308	With this broad tax exemption, our majority will therefore give our citizens a first breath in tax matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u309	And their last breath to the local authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u310	I am coming to the communities, my dear colleague. Of course, the Government has undertaken to ensure that these exemptions are compensated by the State to the euro. As far as the modalities of this mechanism are concerned, I imagine that Messrs. Ministers reserve their statements to the Local Finance Committee: this is simply the best way to discuss with our local elected representatives. In any case, the Head of State confirmed that this financial compensation would not deprive the communities of the freedom to set the rate of the tax – it is important for them! I would like to stress this point, which is essential to me, because it allows us to address the subject of effective compensation by the State and, more generally, the subject already mentioned last Tuesday of the financial relations between the State and local and regional authorities. This subject, which has never been addressed, is also one of the issues at stake in this quinquennium. Last Monday, the Head of State also spoke on the reform of the rental bases and on the failure of the latter for forty years. Minister of Public Action and Accounts, this statement requires two clarifications. Last February, the Directorate-General for Public Finance gave Parliament a report based on simulations of five departments – Charente-Maritime, North, Paris, Orne and Val-de-Marne – totalling 5.5 million homes. I invite everyone to read this report because, even if the study deals with the property tax, the results are instructive: the losers of a reform of the rental bases would be the owners of small apartments, while those with large homes would be winners. I therefore understand that the Head of State is considering abandoning this reform. Minister, will you confirm this abandonment in the coming weeks? In this regard, the revision of the cadastral rental values of business premises has been effective since 1 January 2017 for the property tax, the household garbage collection tax – TEOM – and the business property assessment – CFE – and is expected to be effective in 2018 for the business value added assessment – CVAE. Minister, can you tell us whether this reform will continue or whether the Government intends to amend it? Pending a final decision on these issues, it will be necessary to make use of solidarity – we have already talked about it – through equalization within the departmental bloc. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] These three financial subjects, be they political, technical or structural, represent a panel of work that awaits us on local finances. We could talk at length about taxation, various compensations, endowments and many other issues related to communities. Ladies and gentlemen, our common thinking and the vision that we share in this Assembly, whether we are experienced or less experienced, must inform the Government's action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u311	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u312	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the last election, twenty-four million voters – one in two voters – abstained, reflecting a lack of confidence in politics. We are thus at a crossroads. We must make new resolutions and show sincerity and responsibility in the discharge of our mission. In this sense, we need to be more accountable for budgetary construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u313	[[Smile]] Stay polite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u314	Why could the state do what French households cannot afford, i.e. irresponsible management of its money? The tax burden is too high and the situation is no longer tenable for millions of French. At this stage, it is necessary to avoid breaking a still fragile recovery in growth. A policy of compulsory levies that is too high is ineffective, especially if the primary aim is to boost investment. We need to be able to better choose where we invest for the future. In order to achieve this, appropriations should not be removed in a simple accounting logic, but rather be able to evaluate public policies and have the courage to stop those that do not fulfil their objectives, in order to concentrate the appropriations on the arrangements that work and those that are necessary, including health, the environment, security and national defence, and education and training. Education is an investment that requires human and financial resources to meet the challenge ahead. Under the Third Republic, the Minister of Public Education, Jules Ferry, has made school education free and compulsory, thus assigning to the school of the Republic an important mission: to strengthen social cohesion. At the time of self-absorbing, the rise of extremes and the rejection of others, we have a duty to train enlightened citizens. A well-functioning educational system...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u315	And free!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u316	... is therefore essential for our democracy. The massification bet was successful. Nevertheless, in today's France, one in five students leave primary school without mastering basic knowledge – counting, writing and reading – and 100,000 young people leave the education system every year without a diploma, without training and without a job. The public authorities have a responsibility to reduce the inequalities that exist between our children according to the territories or their social origins, in order to achieve a real democratisation of education. The challenge is great. It is up to us to act accordingly. This is one of the many realities to be taken into account because, behind public policies, there are women and men, those of whom we are neighbours, colleagues and forced to do so because of the trust and responsibility that they have given us. In this House, too often this has been forgotten: when we create or remove credits, we influence life paths. The Court of Auditors' report is very clear on the underbudgeting of public policies and the recurrent overvaluation of revenues over the last five years. These practices must disappear. We must end this situation where, months after the vote on the finance law, we find that essential expenses for our compatriots have been under-budgeted – I will only mention recent examples of the emergency plan for employment or emergency accommodation. We are committed to making purchasing power by removing the housing tax and reducing social contributions on wages, but also to giving businesses air by reducing taxes and standards and facilitating the use of digital procedures. There are also a number of areas that need to be improved, such as ending the overlapping of responsibilities that are still too common at the territorial level, continuing the development of digital administration and, finally, better targeting of tax and investment expenditures. This will make our public services more efficient. We are asking local and regional authorities for a lot. Let us recognize their efforts by respecting our compensation commitments. We cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of successive governments. Let us be vigilant and attentive to the word given. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I also support the Government in the measures it proposes and in the direction it wishes to give our country. Ministers, we will be with you to carry out the necessary reforms and to take full account of our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u317	The last speaker on the list is Mr Laurent Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u318	Madam Chair, Ministers, Mr Chairman of the Finance Committee, too complex, poorly targeted and unchecked: it is in these terms that a parliamentary report presented to the Senate by Mrs Beaufils just a year ago pointed to the difficulties of implementing the employment competitiveness tax credit – CICE. According to France Stratégie, this scheme represents 22.7 billion euros of actual expected claims for salaries paid in 2017, or about one point of GDP. The principle of the CICE is now well known: through this tax credit, beneficiaries are granted an indirect reduction in charges. The amount is allocated to increase the cash flow of enterprises in order to finance new investments, to explore new markets, to innovate, to hire or to finance training activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u319	It's a multiplication of charges!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u320	Indirect, this decrease in expenses is also deferred, resulting in a mismatch between the return and the collection of the tax credit. As Esope's fable teaches, don't count your chicks until they're hatched! However, in the framework of the CICE, entrepreneurs have to pay the costs...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u321	These are contributions, not expenses!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u322	... before their cash actually regenerated by the tax credit. Companies are then forced to pre-finance the latter – which obviously has a cost. For one company, and especially for TPEs and SMEs, immediate burden relief will always be better than a future tax credit. That is the meaning of the measure put forward by the Government. As you will have understood, if we acknowledge the good will of the CICE, its implementation does not seem to us to be optimal. It has proven to be a tool for complex management, adding to a diverse spending landscape and tax mechanisms that complicate our tax system and undermine its readability. Public policy analysis is at the heart of our mission, ministers. The reform of the schemes in the light of the analyses produced is the logical and imperative follow-up. The transformation of the CICE into a reduction of free and sustainable charges would allow 16,000 net job creations by 2020 and 40,000 net creations in five years, according to a study by the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – OFCE – published, Mister Coquerel, at the beginning of July. Prime Minister Edward Philippe announced the coming into force of the decrease in expenses for January 1, 2019. This, declining to 1.6 SMIC, would be 6 per cent, up to 10 per cent of the minimum wage. Its immediate effect and the administrative simplification that this evolution will bring will be useful levers in strengthening the investment and development capacity of our companies. By restoring readability to businesses, this burden reduction also significantly alters the business climate. Many entrepreneurs, starting with those of TPEs and SMEs, remind us of this. This is also highlighted by INSEE in its latest study: "In June 2017, the business climate has reached an unprecedented level in six years, further accentuating its good direction since 2016. There is a momentum here, ladies and gentlemen, which we must extend and accentuate. Our action, however, cannot be limited to these devices. We will work on employment by encouraging change and securing mobility, protecting people rather than jobs. It is in this sense that we will also reform vocational training and apprenticeship and work towards the universalisation of unemployment insurance. We will also support the purchasing power of the assets by lowering unemployment and sickness contributions. These devices, as you know, will now benefit all French people. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Colleagues, the job is not decreed: it is created. In the fight against unemployment – which I am sure unites us all here – it is important to put aside the political postures in order, together, to support employment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u323	And this isn't a posture?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u324	I have heard the frustration of some, very diligent in this debate, that they were unable to respond more reactively to the discussions this morning. I hope that the Government's responses to the many questions will compensate a little for this frustration. That is why I propose that we extend this morning's sitting from 10 to 15 minutes, at most, in order to be able to hear the ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u325	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u326	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u327	Well done, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u328	Excellent presidency! Mr. de Rugy should be inspired by it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u329	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u330	Don't worry, Mr. Aubert, there'll be plenty for everyone. I wouldn't want to offend you, and that's all the less so since you had the kindness and politeness to stay after you asked your questions. I am at your disposal to respond to all the speakers, including those who have not stayed – I am confident that the proceedings will be of interest to them and that their colleagues will not fail to discuss these issues with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u331	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u332	Of course, Mr. Roussel. I didn't expect any less from you. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Roseren for the satisfaction he expressed in referring to the IMF's intervention earlier this week. I would like to thank the Finance Committee of the National Assembly and the Committee of the Senate – where our majority is perhaps less solid – for having given positive opinions on the decrees in advance, both before and after the advice of the Council of State, which undoubtedly shows that not only was this decree in advance detailed, but it also corresponded exactly to the spirit of the LOLF, with an amount of less than 1% of the budget. This is the first point on which I will not go further. I shall briefly refer to the remarks made by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who has asked questions which we will have the opportunity to answer now and in the coming weeks, as well as to the statements made by Mr Aubert, Mr Le Fur and Mrs Dalloz. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I did not understand exactly where the savings you offered us were. At least Mr. de Courson has proposed – although the addition of the proposed measures does not completely reduce the burden he refers to – a number of savings, some of which are common to those proposed by the Government and others not. Perhaps a third set of measures is coming, Monsieur de Courson – after all, it is only seven weeks since we are here. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I have retained interventions from the members of the group. Republicans who should not be affected by the armies, the interior, the justice system, the local authorities, the health system, culture, research, personalized housing aid – APL – or aided contracts
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u333	What about the ministers' salaries?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u334	[[Same movements]] We could continue to remove collaborators in ministerial offices, but I'm not sure that would fund all the tax cuts you proposed. From this point of view, Mr Fillon's promise of a 20 billion reduction in the allocation of local authorities is clearly no longer there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u335	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u336	You no longer propose an increase of two points of VAT, or the abolition of 500,000 posts of civil servants. We will probably have the opportunity next time to talk about the savings you are proposing, and we will be delighted to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u337	It's bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u338	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As you have defined yourself, all oppositions are constructive. However, I have not heard a single proposal for savings and I very frankly regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u339	I did it! Three billion ISFs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u340	Let them talk to each other, to the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u341	Each one's job!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u342	[[Rires on the benches of the REM group]] Thank you for that fine confession, Mr. Aubert. I would like to twist the neck to two or three false news, or at least to answer, as I have already done in committee, questions from the chairman of the committee that deserve immediate answers – but Mr Le Maire will probably point that out better than I am. There is no desire to merge income tax with the CSG, nor to increase the number of contracts assisted. The current figure is 110000, instead of 190000 budgeted. So these contracts are falling, so there's more money. I have not understood correctly the defence of tobacco, and even diesel, by the opposition, even if I understand perfectly that, as Mr de Courson has said, a European commitment is necessary – it is not the frontier elected party that I am who will say the opposite. I know that customs are doing a very important job in the fight against smuggling.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u343	Why then remove customs posts?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u344	We will return to that, particularly as part of the review of the Social Security Funding Bill. Bourguignon and Mr.Véran were pleased to stress the Government's strong commitment to the adaptation of the health system – without a plank, but through investment, especially in innovation. I know that they will work on this, in particular the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, in the context of the Social Security funding bill. The rapporteur rightly stressed the issue of the housing tax and local authorities, which was also raised by many speakers. I will answer a few questions in this direction, even if the speech of the President of the Republic is still very recent and we are working – as will be the case in a few moments with the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior – on the implementation of the content of this speech and the confidence pact. It seems to me that I have already taken a first step in this House in accepting the idea of working on Mr Coquerel's proposal – and finally of all the members of this House – to know exactly what transfers there are or may have been between the state and local authorities. In this regard, the State's spending effort will exceed 50% in 2018, i.e. the State will contribute more than 50% to the reduction in public spending. This is an unprecedented effort. This does not mean, however, that other actors, including local authorities, will not make this effort, but the proportion is significant and I wanted to say so to the Special Rapporteur. In the coming years – because we are here in a debate on the direction of public finances – the state will make an effort of the order of 40%, as important as it can do. Moreover, the State is not the only contributor to the increase in public expenditure and to these difficulties. I would like to point out that, while the DGF experienced a decrease of more than EUR 10 billion in the previous term, local public expenditure has increased more in volume for local authorities than for the State. We must also be able to hold this speech of truth. From this point of view, local authorities will participate – this is the commitment made by the President of the Republic – in the reduction of public expenditure in proportion to their share in the "stock" of expenditure, all public administrations combined, i.e. about 20%, or a little less next year. Of course, these are not reductions in staffing, but savings to be found. There are several avenues for doing so, and we are working with all local communities and their elected associations. One of those avenues that we could imagine, and which we are discussing with the rapporteur and with all of you, is that we may not be dealing, in spite of our taste for well-defined things and our Jacobinism, with a French garden, but with an English garden, and that it may be appropriate to enter into contracts with each of the communities. We will discuss this with the Minister of State. In fact, the 150 largest communities are responsible for 60% of public spending. We are therefore not obliged to attack the most rural or difficult communes, which may experience fairly severe difficulties because of their enclave or centrality, position or history. So one could quite imagine – and this is the meaning of the President of the Republic's proposal – to contractualize community by community, instead of simply making a systematic reduction in endowments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u345	At the head of the client!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u346	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is what we refuse: to reduce the endowments for everyone, as in a French-style garden, without taking into account the territories and the commitment of the elected representatives. It's a possibility; There are many more. It will no doubt give an advantage – a virtue lacking in the reduction of staffing – to those who make operating savings, to those who choose to favour investment The problem is not to get into debt to make investments, we all agree, but to get into debt without looking for the right investment at the local level, for schools or public services. This English-style garden may be more interesting in terms of savings for communities than a French-style garden. It's a change of political culture. This may not be the final choice of the Government, elected associations and Parliament, but it has at least the merit of being an avenue to explore and of allowing the establishment of a trust agreement between the largest communities and the State regarding the reduction of endowments. As far as the housing tax is concerned, we may still want to do nothing, but who here can say, most honestly in the world, that this tax is fair? This tax is unfair to local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u347	Why keep it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u348	There are more unfair taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u349	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] No, there are taxes that are fairer than others unless you propose that the tax be abolished, Mr President of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u350	We need to reform the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u351	It seems to me that between rich communes and poor communes, justice is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u352	You're undressing Peter to dress Paul!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u353	It is quite true that for those who pay it the housing tax is unfair because it is not correlated with income, it is not correlated with rental value, it is not correlated with the operation of public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u354	Neither VAT nor CSG!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u355	An average city bears more operating expenses because of its centrality, while its inhabitants probably pay a lower housing tax than those living in the periphery. The housing tax is therefore an unfair tax. On the other hand, and this is the second issue, you blame us for saying that the housing tax is an unfair tax and at the same time to keep it for the 20% of French people who pay it: it should be abolished for everyone. The President of the Republic has made this opening. Let us remember, however, that more than 12 million households are already exempt; up to 10500 euros of annual income, you do not pay it. First of all, we are working to restore the purchasing power of our citizens, by launching next year, I confirm, the first tranche of exemption from the housing tax, for three billion euros, and, in three years' time, its abolition for 80% of those responsible, in line with the commitment made during the presidential campaign. Secondly, we will provide compensation to the nearest euro for local authorities. Thirdly, we are thinking about the possibility of a fiscal renewal for local authorities – as Mr de Courson mentioned – and guaranteeing their fiscal autonomy and their power to modulate rates, while confirming the abolition of the housing tax. We are working on it, and we are working with the elected representatives. To hear some, it would take seven weeks to recast Rome as a whole, even the whole Italian boot! The debates announced by the President of the Republic, although technical and very important, will take place as soon as the 2018 Finance Law, which proves that the Government has not been unemployed. In conclusion, I would like to address the group of unsuspecting France and the communist group. To hear you, it would concern only the rich and the very rich. We've gone from two hundred to five hundred families, Mr Roussel – everything is increasing! – but the debates are the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u356	That's the numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u357	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance will no doubt raise tax and economic issues, but I would nevertheless like to point out that, thanks to these cuts in expenditure and taxation, we will be able, as I told the House yesterday, to increase the disabled adult allowance by EUR 100 per month as of next year – this has never been done! It's not a policy for the rich, it seems to me! We can increase the minimum old age by a hundred euros per month: this has never been done at once! I don't think it's a policy for the rich. We will be able to set up an activity premium for employees of EUR 80 per month: I don't think it's a bonus for the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u358	These are trompe-l'oeil increments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u359	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Thanks to the drop in contributions, we will increase the wage of a worker at the SMIC by 260 euros per year: everyone demands it but no one has ever done it. It's not a policy for the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u360	It's money you took out of their welfare!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u361	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We will give back five hundred euros of purchasing power to the self-employed thanks to the cuts in spending: this is not a policy for the rich! It does not seem to me that the rich are among the 80% of taxpayers we intend to exempt from housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u362	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u363	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Finance Committee, ladies and gentlemen, you are all hungry – I am the first – so I will try to be brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u364	That's very disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u365	We will delight in your words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u366	The chairman of the Committee on Finance, who has a long tradition of parliamentary debates, thinks that this kind of sentence is very worrying: it is not entirely wrong! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Mrs Olivia Grégoire, I will start with a word for the independents: they are indeed at the heart of the economic policy orientations of the Government. We will reform the RSI in depth because we are fully aware that it is perceived by many independents and traders as a racket rather than as a social regime. We will therefore do what is necessary to transform it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u367	It was a government to which you belonged that created it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u368	There have been a lot of questions, on all sides of this House, about energy taxation. I would like to elaborate on the Government's choices in this area. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] We plan to increase the carbon component of the tax from €44.60 per tonne in 2018 to €86.20 per tonne in 2022. It is a choice that we fully assume. We will ensure convergence between the price of diesel and the price of petrol over four years, at a rate of about 2.6 cents of euro per year. This is a gradual development. No one can understand today that there is such a difference between the price per litre of gasoline and the price per litre of diesel at the pump.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u369	Why don't you lower the price of gasoline?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u370	There is no economic justification for both environmental and public health reasons, since diesel releases fine particles, such a tax gap between diesel and gasoline. We will pay attention, as has been reported on many banks, to the people of rural areas; we will pay attention to carriers; We will pay attention to farmers, who will retain all the advantages of diesel taxation and, more generally, fuel taxation. We will provide assistance to the most modest households, so that no one is penalized by this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u371	The Macron buses?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u372	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] But we cannot be told that the only solution would be to maintain the status quo, not touch anything, never change anything: politics is done to change behaviour and habits in the sense of the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Many questions were also asked about the wage tax and the attractiveness of the Paris financial centre. I say it again here, without any polemic mind: finance is not the enemy. The enemy is unemployment. Finance represents 800,000 jobs in our country. When you go to your banker's house, chat with the person behind the counter, see the person who manages your accounts...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u373	We're not talking about employees! We're talking about shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u374	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... to change your housing savings account or Booklet A, you have one contact: it is a job, and I do not see why this job would be more despicable than another in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u375	We're talking about traders!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u376	We understand that your friend is finance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u377	It is not 800,000 jobs for traders, it is not 800,000 jobs for people with excessive incomes: it is 800,000 jobs that are good for our country. Yes, we have decided to remove the fourth instalment of the wage tax from this finance bill, because we believe that it penalises France's attractiveness and therefore employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u378	You're pampering the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u379	We will complement this with measures on the tax on financial transactions. I would not want the various taxes at stake to be confused. The tax on financial transactions is a stamp duty; it exists in many other European states; It brings in between 900 million and 1 billion euros: it is out of the question of the stamp duty, which works well, which is fair, which is fair, and which is practised in other European states.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u380	We have to go further!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u381	There is then a daily financial transaction tax, which was adopted under the previous government. It is France which, wanting to wash white rather than white, shoots itself in the foot and makes the investors flee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u382	Which investors have fled?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u383	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I do not see why France would impose taxation on daily transactions, whereas other European countries do not. Suffice to say to investors: "Don't come to France and go to our British or German competitors"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u384	It's easy rhetoric! You disappoint me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u385	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u386	Sorry, I'm here to defend the interests of the French and not the interests of British finance or German finance! I therefore fully assume what the Prime Minister has announced, that is, the abolition of this tax on daily financial transactions from next year. Finally, a tax on financial transactions at European level is imposed, as you know, by ten States, including France, in the framework of enhanced cooperation. We simply propose, with our German friends, to study the consequences of Brexit on this tax. The British have decided to leave the European Union: let them draw the consequences and let us French try to reap the benefits. If we can ensure that investors, jobs, banking, finance come here, in Paris or in France, I do not see why we would deprive the French of these jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u387	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] And launder dirty money, like the City?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u388	I will return to the question of the laundering of dirty money, which is a real issue, on which the Government and the President of the Republic are fully mobilized. With regard to the ISF, I hear the criticisms on some of these banks, on the theme "you have kept the ISF on real estate values; You should have removed the entire ISF! » I recall that some previous governments have had the opportunity to do so, but they have not had the courage, for political reasons, to touch the ISF as we are now doing by exempting securities because it penalizes our country's investment and economic dynamism. I would point out that this leads to the abolition of three quarters of this levy: it is therefore a real tax cut in favour of France's economic dynamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u389	That's nicely said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u390	With regard to the corporate tax rate, there is much criticism of the fact that it is paid by small businesses, by SMEs, but not by large companies. This does not correspond to the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u391	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u392	If our debate wants to be useful, and even if we do not have the same opinion – so much the better: it is the merit of democracy – at least let us go on the basis of just facts. In a report published at the beginning of the year, the Council for Compulsory Taxation established that large companies pay exactly the same level of corporate tax as SMEs. Let's stop with fantasies, let's stop with illusions: there is no difference in corporate tax rates between large and small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u393	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u394	With regard to European convergence, which has been mentioned by many of you, we must indeed move towards such convergence and it will indeed be very difficult. That is why we have chosen the only method that seems right to me: to work first with the German Minister of Finance to achieve convergence between France and Germany on rates and on the basis of corporate tax. I am confident that, by 2018, we will be able, together with our German friends, to reach an agreement on a convergence on the bases and rates of corporate tax: a major step will thus be taken. On this basis, we want to extend fiscal convergence to all euro area Member States because tax dumping is causing considerable harm to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u395	It's forbidden by the treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u396	But this will not be done in a single click of fingers, simply because, for some euro area Member States, a very low rate of corporate tax is at the very foundation of their business model. Thus, our Irish partners, who deserve neither contempt nor anathema, explain that a corporate tax rate of about 13% is the heart of their country's attractiveness and that going back to that is extremely complicated for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u397	It's shameful! It's a tax haven!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u398	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This does not remove my determination to achieve fiscal convergence. I'm just saying that we have to face reality: it will be long, it will be difficult, but we will still be able to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u399	How will you do that? The treaties forbid him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u400	As far as tax fraud is concerned, rather than covering our heads with ashes, as we are unfortunately too often used to doing, let us not forget that France is at the forefront of the fight against tax fraud in the G20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u401	Then why don't you blow Bercy's lock?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u402	Whether it is the President of the Republic Nicolas Sarkozy, the President of the Republic François Hollande or the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron, if there is one subject on which there is total continuity of the Republic, it is our will to fight against tax havens and tax fraud at the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u403	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u404	I think we can be proud, on every bench, to lead this fight against tax fraud in the G20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u405	She's constantly growing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u406	France, within the European Union, supported the idea of a directive on the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations. France has always been at the forefront of the denunciation of tax havens and the desire to put an end to them, in Europe and elsewhere. Let's make it a source of pride rather than differences and quarrels between us! I would like to answer in a slightly more technical way to our friend Charles de Courson – who unfortunately left – on the important issue of structural deficits. We have adopted very conservative growth assumptions. Too often – the High Committee on Public Finance has had the opportunity to criticize it many times – we have focused on potential growth that is too high, about 1.5%, resulting in a significant gap between the assumption and actual results. This time and for the whole quinquennium, we made a very different choice by assuming a lower growth hypothesis, of the order of 1.25%, much closer to the assessments of international or European bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u407	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u408	I think it's a responsible choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u409	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u410	Ultimately, at the time of budget implementation, it will be apparent that this systematic gap between a much too high assumption and real growth will have disappeared. This will enable a real improvement in the structural balance and the fulfilment of our European deficit commitments, which I repeat we will maintain. I would also like to say a word about the taxation of large American digital groups mentioned by some of you. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I'll fight this fight to the end. A court decision has been handed down and, even if we have decided to appeal, I think it is necessary to draw all the consequences: we must change the way in which these large digital groups are taxed, both nationally and at European level, if we are to make them pay the taxes they owe to French and European taxpayers. We will, because not a French citizen can accept that our companies pay their taxes while digital giants, whose services are used by nearly 500 million European consumers, whose data and personal information they exploit, pay only a few tens of millions of taxes when they are expected to pay billions of them. We will not let this fight go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u411	I'm waiting to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u412	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, one last word on innovation issues to repeat that they will be at the heart of the Government's economic strategy. The future investment programme, PIA 3, will come to an end. I'm not going back to the famous ten-billion-dollar plan financed by asset sections that will fund a break-up innovation. The modalities for implementing the EUR 50 billion plan are under discussion. It is led by Jean Pisani-Ferry and Julien Dubertret, who was the budgetary adviser to Prime Minister François Fillon – I think, Mr Chairman of the Finance Committee, that this is proof of the openness of this Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u413	The public finance policy debate for 2018 is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-20-E1016.u414	Next meeting, Monday, 24 July, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the Organic Bill and the Public Trust Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
