ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to the agenda, I would like to clarify the results and the organisation of the solemn vote by public vote on the bill ending the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons: a technical problem has prevented the inclusion of the voting delegations of Members of all groups. The announced result was therefore erroneous and less than the number of voters. The exact result of the voting, taking into account the voting delegations, is thus the following: number of voters, 550; number of votes cast, 480; absolute majority, 241; for adoption, 388; Against, 92. The National Assembly had therefore adopted the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u2	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mr Delors. François de Rugy, Richard Ferrand, Christian Jacob and Marc Fesneau to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly (No. 169, 259).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u3	I call Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairperson and Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of us knows the importance of the organic or ordinary laws that we are voting in this House on public authorities or on electoral matters. Through the law, the political system moves, organizes and limits itself. The two confidence laws adopted this summer, which I had the honour to report to our Assembly, bear witness to this ability to regulate, to transform politics, and I would like to reiterate to this rostrum my satisfaction that the Constitutional Council has validated almost all of their provisions. More enigmatic – except for a few experienced colleagues – but equally decisive – are the rules of parliamentary assemblies. Far from being mere compendiums of internal procedures with no scope, they extend the Constitution, adjust the fundamental powers of the legislative procedure and ensure the proper functioning of the National Assembly or the Senate. The Rules of Procedure of our House, which we are now proposing to amend, are a privileged source of parliamentary law. Over the course of its 200 articles, it defines the composition of our main bodies – the Bureau, of course, but also the Conference of Presidents and the committees –, determines the modalities for the discussion of legislation and describes the procedures for monitoring and information. It is the Rules of Procedure which make the Bureau the highest collegial body of our Assembly, giving it "all powers to settle the deliberations of the Assembly and to organize and direct all services". It is he who again gives the Bureau significant regulatory power. Even the procedures for checking financial admissibility are precisely described in the Regulation. However, these matters are not governed exclusively by the regulations, the law or the Constitution. They are also based on parliamentary custom, that is, practice and precedents, which complement written sources but can also create new obligations. It is precisely one of these unwritten conventions that justifies the motion for a resolution before us. The lack of a regulatory basis in June of this year led to difficulties in assigning functions to the Bureau of the Assembly – President, Quaestors, Vice-Presidents and Secretaries. These have been mentioned in committee and I do not think it would be useful to go back to them. We must now overcome this situation and return to this important forum, namely, the pluralistic nature of the Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u6	[["Very good! » on several benches of the LR group]] This is the subject of the joint initiative of the President of the National Assembly, François de Rugy, and the presidents of the La République en marche groups – Richard Ferrand –, Les Républicains – Christian Jacob – and MODEM – Marc Fesneau. These three groups represent 460 Members, which obviously gives a certain strength to the agreement they have reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u7	Maybe, but we're 577!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u8	It is thus proposed to include in Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure the use which, since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, allows parliamentary groups to agree on the division of functions within the Bureau. By organising the meeting of the chairmen of the early parliamentary groups and by dedicating the system of points now used, this motion for a resolution aims to promote the conclusion of a political agreement. The posts in the Office will continue to be split in two stages, taking into account the size of the groups and the points assigned to each function. The total of 35.5 points is distributed among the groups on a proportional basis, resulting in points with decimal places. Then, in order of priority, each president chooses the positions he or she wishes to reserve for his or her group. In this procedure, the role of the President of the Assembly is crucial. It is up to him to note that the distribution of posts is the subject of an agreement between the chairmen of the groups at the end of their meeting and to avoid that the consensus reached can be called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u9	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u10	This agreement will take the form of a common nominative list, which will be posted and published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u12	The multi-nominal election would therefore become the recourse in the event of disagreement, and it would then be necessary to be aware that, in such a case, the pluralistic and equal nature of the Bureau could not be guaranteed. This is, in broad terms, the procedure proposed for inclusion in the Rules of Procedure, which is based on the current practice of the Assembly. The Law Commission did not want to question this particularly consensual reform. If the drafting clarifications are set aside, it has only adopted two amendments, which are very limited in scope. I first found that the method of allocation of points among the groups that had been selected, and which is based on proportional representation to the strongest balance, did not correspond to current practice. This indication of the strong rest could also create confusion, as it is not a question of assigning posts, but points. I would like to refer to the development of this subject in my report. At my initiative, therefore, the Commission has re-established a strictly proportional calculation. She explained that the distribution was based on the size of the groups listed in the Official Journal on the day of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u13	Good thing you were here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u14	The Law Committee has also found a solution in the event of a perfect equality of the staff of several parliamentary groups. Rarely, this assumption cannot be ruled out, especially for smaller parliamentary groups. However, a priority order must be determined in order to enable the chairmen of the groups to make their choices. I have therefore proposed that in such cases the drawing of lots be used to determine the order in which the group chairmen concerned may choose the functions they reserve. The Committee on Laws, on the other hand, refused to extend the purpose of this motion for a resolution. It rejected many out-of-frame amendments, most of which were tabled again for this sitting. I would remind you that the Bureau has recently decided, on your proposal, Mr President, to set up seven working groups which will reflect on the organisation and functioning of the Assembly or on the legislative procedure. At the very least, it would be paradoxical to anticipate their conclusions. This reflection and the institutional reform announced by the President of the Republic before the Congress on 3 July last will require new resolutions to adapt the regulation. To some of our colleagues, whom I do not see in the Chamber, like Jean-Christophe Lagarde and Marietta Karamanli, I would like to meet at that time to discuss the points raised in their amendments. In order not to call into question the political agreement we have reached, I will again oppose any amendment that distorts the scope of this motion for a resolution or broadens its scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the group The Republicans]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask you to adopt the text drawn up by the Committee on Laws without amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u17	You can count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u18	I have received a motion from Mr. Sébastien Chenu to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor for a time not exceeding 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u19	Mr President, Madam Chair and Rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, there are battles that the French could laugh or smile at. The one you have delivered, you, the actors of the system, the old world and the new world, is part of it. On 27 June, an incredible event took place in our assembly, between these walls: the election of the constructive Republican deputy Thierry Solère to the post of third quaestor, beating his comrade elected from the same movement The Republicans, Eric Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u20	Not from the same band!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u21	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This pâte battle, this battle of interests more personal than political, led to an incredible consequence in the National Assembly: The Republicans, draped in their dignity of the moment, refused any vice-presidency of our august assembly. France, democracy, the Republic, the Parliament, the Republicans' members, constructive or destructive, should not be left behind. Names of birds, insults, warnings: we witnessed with the French the sad spectacle of the first twists of La République en marche, the first political maneuvers of the new world – which, it must be said, made us want to remain in the old one. My point is not to judge the actors of this ridiculous psychodrama because, as my former colleague Marion Maréchal said, where there is man, there is manhood. But it must be noted that this pitiful episode has given an unglorious picture of national representation – it will, of course, recover, and above all it will see and suffer others because, with the Republic on its way, we have to expect everything: we will have the right to attitudes and behaviors of parliamentarians from the majority who now contribute every week to keeping the policies away from their fellow citizens – because, with the Republic on its way, we now know deputies who bite, fight, trade visits to the National Assembly, and I pass by.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u22	Enough provocations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u23	This war was in fact only a small theatre of vanities, whose actors, behind great principles, wonder how to distribute the cake. What is being debated today is an obscure Rule 10(3) of the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly, which entrusted the chairmen of the groups with the task of drawing up a single, consensus list for the posts of Quaestors, Vice-Presidents and Secretaries. These posts were thus distributed in proportion to the size of the groups, with a scale of points per post, but the scale was purely informal. It will now be written, since this is the purpose of this resolution. It was clearly urgent for France to discuss this issue. In fact, there are other rules in this house, quite immutable, which will remain in the field of oral tradition: the college of three quaestors includes at least one woman, an elected member of the Paris region, a member of a philosophical society and an elected member of the parliamentary opposition, and these various qualities can be cumulative. But it was this last point that was a problem. What, then, is a group that has declared itself to be opposed? The new version of the regulation does not dissipate the opacity which ruled here on 27 June, because who can forbid the REM group to declare itself as belonging to the majority and, at the same time, to the opposition, since the elected members of this group have become accustomed to crossing the right and left of yesterday, becoming the majority of today? It is therefore possible to be alternatively in the majority and in the opposition. Was legislating tonight so urgent, necessary? Honestly, would you find French people who would demand that this new majority address such secondary issues? Will you even find a parliamentarian who will go on a market at the end of the week – if he finds the way – to tell his constituents what he has voted this evening (Protests on several benches of the REM Group) – unless we bother to extend this evening's debate to the whole of the Rules of Procedure, and therefore to talk here about what we are, I hope, all committed to: democracy. The French would probably then be attentive and surprised. This is the subject of our motion to reject beforehand. This June 27th day was, in reality, not a night of long knives, but a day of long tablespoons, which reflected a French cross admirably denounced by Dean Vedel: our jurists and legislators too often try to solve a personal question by decreeing an abstract and impersonal norm. A tasty example, narrated by the same dean Georges Vedel, illustrates this course of which you are now accomplices, about the law of 14 September 1941 – which you certainly all know, but which I will remind you. On that date, Pétain signed a legislative act authorizing for the first time in France the legitimization of adulterine children. The Church was astonished and questioned Pétain, who satisfied her in these terms: the reform of 1941 presupposes that so impressive a number of conditions are met that there is in reality only one known potential beneficiary: the gardener of Philippe Pétain himself, hence the name of "law of the gardener". Well, tonight, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the gardener's rules. It would be funny if there was no danger: you transcribe in writing an oral rule of parliamentary tradition; However, under article 61 of the Constitution, we are debating a resolution that will automatically be subject to censorship by the Constitutional Council. You are therefore opening a Pandora's box, because if the Constitutional Council cannot examine an oral tradition, it can, on the other hand, censor a written norm. Other reasons for unconstitutionality could also be exposed to the Sages de la rue de Montpensier. Remember, moreover, that, during the last revision of the regulation, the resolution of Rugy-Pompili of 12 February 2013 establishing a group co-chair was swept away by a total censorship on 28 February 2013. Do you believe that, after the June 27 incident, the Constitutional Council will continue to accept the fuzzy concept of "opposition group"? Have you counted the number of items based on this distinction, which can tomorrow be declared invalid? Articles 10, 16, 19, 31, 48, 49, 111, 132, 133, 141, 145 and I pass by, all of these articles of the regulation mention the concept of either majority or minority or opposition. A preliminary question may have two reasons: either we consider the text of this proposal to be contrary to constitutional principles or we do not consider that it should be deliberated. Your resolution ticks both boxes. First of all, there is a first ground of unconstitutionality, which is the very source of the dispute that drives our debates this evening; This democratic flaw is reflected in paragraph 7 of the single article. Indeed, one of the Quaestors' positions would be reserved for a member of a group who had declared himself to be opposed. It means clearly that it would be up to the majority of the Assembly to choose who would be "Her Majesty's opposition": it is an unbearable attack on the democratic life of our Assembly, which you continue to trample on elsewhere. The running Republic has therefore chosen its opposition: the Constructive – as much as with an opposition of this acabit, it no longer even needs a majority! Curious conception of this new world, which chooses its interlocutors, but refuses to give means to those appointed to it by the people of France in this assembly. Moreover, there is a major legal flaw in the event that, in the absence of consensus, Members would elect two quaestors belonging to the majority and a third quaestor who would sit among the non-attached. In such a case, the new Article 10 would be inapplicable. Second ground for non-compliance: all members of the national representation sit in this Chamber on equal terms of rights and duties. But that is not the meaning of the text before us. This evening we are proposed to codify a kind of intergroup kitchen, in which the prebends would be distributed according to a number of points proportional to the size of each group. Then, depending on their points, the group presidents would fish in their pool as a quaestor, a vice-president or a secretary. To this is added, the summum of the non-right, that there is no procedure to verify that the happy elected were candidates – clearly, for you, non-registered Members are invited not to run for the Bureau of the Assembly. Finally, the third legal problem: it is enough for a non-registered Member to reject your tripotouillations so that we can resort to the multi-nominal majority vote provided for in Article 10(6) and Article 26(4) of the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly. There is an ambiguity here: nothing prevents a member of the House of Commons, not a registered member or a member of a group, from applying for the position of Quaestor, then, in the event of a failure, to serve as Vice-President and, lastly, as Secretary. Such an assumption therefore implies three separate elections, with, in article 10, paragraph 4, residual uncertainty: from when is the thirty-minute time limit for registering counted? Our defeated Member should therefore wait until the results of the election to the vice-presidency to be a candidate for the questure. Clearly, the text before us does not meet the requirement of intelligibility constantly reaffirmed by the Constitutional Council. Of these legal flaws, you obviously have nothing to do, obsessed that you are by the need to hack and cheat the rules in order to adapt them to your desires. As I said, the French would probably be dismayed by these manoeuvres, especially when we know that there are only one or two revisions to our Rules of Procedure per legislature: we could have imagined that a slightly more ambitious version would be required, as you have the mouth full of democratic concepts, lessons, but empty arms of concrete practices. What do we finally see? To a pitiful sharing of the cake, to a merchandising which the actors of a system already breathless, without spine or concern for democratic balances. What is he hiding behind these arrangements and combinations? What material, financial, compensatory supplements, warrant fees, many collaborators or benefits in kind are hidden behind these unsavory manipulations?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u24	You're probably talking about the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u25	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] Why is the post of secretary in the Bureau of the Assembly worth a scale, whereas the rules of procedure of the Assembly, as well as the general instruction, do not specify the rights and obligations of those secretaries? Our feeling is that the pre-bendents share small, petty privileges that go far beyond those of the family jobs to which some of the Members of the Republic on the move have again demonstrated in the last few days how attached they were. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not because the shape of our Chamber is round that we must take it for cheese. For this reason, we will propose an amendment abolishing all the occult advantages: from the President to the Secretaries of the Assembly, everyone must receive the same allowances, the same ceiling of mandate costs. Under this amendment, members of the House of Commons would pay rent to the questure and bear the housing tax: there is no reason why only pensioners in EHPAD – a residential institution for dependent elderly people – should be the scapegoats of your policies! Since we have no doubt about the intellectual honesty of the deputies of the Republic on the march, we are sure that they will vote with both hands this amendment of end of privileges, since they were elected on their promise to drive out the privileged elected and pre-bendents!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u26	A criterion of attendance should be laid down!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u27	Yes, in the commission of laws, in particular!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u28	For the rest, unfortunately, the real reform of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure will await. We are, of course, being told of a major reform, but, sadly, we begin by entrusting it to committees which exclude non-registered Members from any possibility of action in this direction. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the real reform of the Rules of Procedure will enable every Member to be considered in the same way – whatever his label – and every Member to be able to speak, every Member to benefit from the same means. Do you have to be so unsure of yourself, or so fearful, or so chilly to refuse our proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u29	Not even scared!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u30	They are certainly bold, perhaps even revolutionary for you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u31	The national revolution, you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u32	...but they have a merit: that of respecting the French, contrary to what you propose to us tonight. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] The French have already begun to discover you – your transgressions, your arrangements, your culpable inclinations. Be careful that your term of office does not end like that of President André Le Troquer – I'll let you check how it all ended. Let the consuls take care that it does not happen to the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u33	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u34	What to say?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u35	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Nothing, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u37	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, the floor is for Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u38	I feel a form of fascination with Mr Chenu's ability to build an epic saga around the major decision that is before us. In truth, we have a decision of reason to make, because it repairs a past event. We will continue to reform, including with non-attached Members, who will be able to contribute, like all Members, to the reform and work that we have undertaken together. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] This evening we are looking at a clear text, which makes a general consensus. I know that our colleagues at La France insoumée will want to broaden the scope of the debate to prepare for the future debate – very well do them! –; I can understand that. But the La République en marche group will not support this rejection motion and will continue to work quietly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u39	I have received from Mr Louis Aliot a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor for a time not exceeding thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do not worry: I will not be very long. I would like to re-establish the facts concerning the election of Members of Parliament that we are all here and the respect that we owe to democracy and to the French Republic: we are all elected on an equal footing. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure of this House do not confirm this equal treatment of all Members. There is a need for regulations for the management of assemblies, but they still need to be fair and take into account the plurality of opinions – unfortunately this is not the case today with French democracy. Mr de Rugy, our President, has launched a modernization project on the role of our Parliament and parliamentary work, while non-attached Members have neither the same rights nor the same means – whether in speaking time or in parliamentary techniques – as others do to carry out their duties. Unrighteousness is flagrant. You have set up seven working groups, granted presidencies, secretariats, a number of seats in these committees: no unregistered MP is on these committees!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u41	It's open to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u42	Is it not curious to set up committees to modernise parliamentary work without trying to modify the Rules of Procedure a little in order to guarantee the total plurality of opinions in those committees?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u43	It's open to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u44	Similarly, I do not see how all the views might not be represented in the fact-finding mission on the institutional future of New Caledonia, as this is a very important subject. In addition, in New Caledonia, the political formation that I represent has co-managed the community. We have friends of all origins,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u45	Of all origins, certainly not!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u46	... in all camps, and I find it abnormal that this mission excludes the movement of which I am a part. It is so obvious that some of our colleagues even pay the luxury of excluding themselves from it! I will not go into the details of the quarrels between Mr. Mélenchon and Mr. Valls, but I find that, given the seriousness of the situation in New Caledonia, this quarrel is absolutely incredible. I therefore ask the President of Rugy to review the composition of the mission and to include Members of political groups who are not currently there. Ladies and gentlemen, elected under the label of the Marine Blue Rally and the National Front, we should, however, welcome this plurality of opinions. But I regret to note that, as far as this motion for a resolution is concerned, it is not: you do not take any account of the will of the French people, who wanted an increased representation of the various political formations and sensitivities which the majority voting method prevents, excluding on your own initiative from all the governing bodies of this Parliament almost 11 million French voters. This, in my humble opinion, is a pure and simple democratic denial. Past elections should have led you to question these autocratic methods of another time – the cherished expression of the President of the elected Republic, wanting to bring about a renewal. It is incredible that a movement – with all the respect I owe to its members – that has won 700000 less votes than our political party can form a group in Parliament, while our seven Members and their allies – three Members who are not registered – cannot come together to have a group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u47	The French have chosen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u48	The French want to be represented legitimately and proportionately in this house which is theirs and which should meet their expectations with rules adapted to this. To meet these popular aspirations, my non-registered colleagues and I have tabled a series of amendments: the first, fundamental, are aimed at recognizing the expression of the vote of millions of voters by reducing to ten the number of elected representatives required to be able to form a political group, against fifteen currently.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u49	Why not seven?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u50	That was what the former majority had done by lowering that number to fifteen to allow the Communist Party to have a group in this assembly. In anticipation of the case, probable as well as regrettable, where the majority and the various oppositions of this assembly would deny us the possibility of forming an agglomerate of sovereignist, patriotic and republican elected officials, we have tabled a second set of amendments aimed at aligning our rules with that of the Senate, which seems more democratic...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u51	There are 348 of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u52	... and which would allow us to have, within the governing bodies of the National Assembly, an elected representative having the same rights as a group president and the possibility of forming ourselves in an administrative meeting of deputies, thus making up for the democratic shortcomings of the status of non-registrant, which is more like a status of under-representative of the Nation. These elements constitute an initial framework for considering a regulation in line with the expectations of many Members, but are in no way sufficient to bring the parliamentary institution into line with the wishes of the citizens. Citizens are thirsty for expression, democracy and debate, and from this point of view the reform of the regulation presented to us this evening is totally inadequate. It deserves a referral to committee, for the reasons mentioned above, but also because it is imperative to broaden our discussions so as to include the people in the parliamentary debate, through the new communication tools that could guide us in our legislative choices and priorities. Even if the role assigned to them by the Constitution is fundamental, the deputies must reach out to the entire French people instead of confiscating the regulation of the groups for the benefit of the few who, for too long, have governed the country with the results we know. Mr President, you said, with regard to the well-known working groups on internal democracy, that the credibility of Parliament was at stake. It is at stake tonight too, because no Frenchman would understand only a political movement that won so many votes, which was present in the second round of the presidential election...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u53	Not to the legislature! It's about legislation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u54	[[Applause from some non-attached Members]] ... which has ten Members in this House, is not represented at its fair value, that is to say, at the fair value of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u55	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u56	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The composition of our assembly is based on the concept of a political group. There is nothing to prevent you from joining other Members to form a group. We are not responsible for the modesty of your staff. The concept of a group is recognized by the Constitution and the Assembly's Rules of Procedure, and that is how we operate. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We have established working groups to consider improvements to our system. You can participate and make any proposals you think are likely to improve our operations. I think our assembly is already working very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u57	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral back to committee, Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u58	Everyone is aware of the fundamental disagreement we have with the National Front.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u59	Not on everything! Populisms join each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u60	Yet, ma'am, we are not satisfied with your answer. This assembly can very well discuss the number of Members needed to form a group: this number has evolved over the course of history. From the moment that a number of Members want to act together, we cannot answer the way you do. It is a political reality. That's not how we fight the extreme right. That's not how we fight the National Front.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u61	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u62	[[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] [["No! No! » on the benches of the REM group]] You do not provide an answer to a question that, although I disagree with those who ask it, has some form of legitimacy. Pay attention to what I'm saying to you: you're 310 Members of Parliament. On the move, but, perhaps tomorrow, some of you will be tired of the government's policy and will find it useful to be able to form a group. We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u63	You must never say!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u64	The story is full of people who thought they were very strong before they realized it was more complicated. I am not satisfied, Madam rapporteur, with the arguments you have put forward: there are no rules of brass governing the number of Members required to form a group, and we can discuss them here at any time. It might very well be considered that it would not be illegitimate or anti-democratic for a political current with a number of Members to be able to express themselves as such in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u65	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u66	We are going to stop the policy fiction and try to talk about what brings us together tonight. The La République group is obviously going to postpone this motion for referral. Mr Aliot, you and your friends have tabled some 40 amendments on a text which, I would remind you, has 305 words combined in a single article...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u67	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u68	...concerning a single object, the constitution of the Bureau, and nothing else. I therefore urge you to benefit rather from your creativity the reform process launched by the President of our Assembly François de Rugy to modernise and make more effective the parliamentary work to which, I remind you, everyone can contribute, even outside the groups. Once discussed and expertised, these contributions will be able to feed into the draft more comprehensive recasting of our working methods and our Rules of Procedure, and we will then have an opportunity to discuss them calmly in this House. I will make the same point earlier about amendments from other benches, because creativity and imagination have obviously inspired some of our colleagues. [[Protests on the benches of the NG group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us return to the essentials. With this motion for a resolution, we are now restoring pluralism in the day-to-day management of our Assembly, no more or less. I can therefore only call for a vote against this motion for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u69	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u70	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] We will not vote in favour of this motion even though I too consider that no matter is taboo in this House, not even the number of Members needed to form a group. But it is the explanation of vote of the moving Republic Group that makes me react. I have just taken part in a debate on The Parliamentary Chain, at the end of which it appears that the proponents of liberal thought are thinking about how to challenge the legitimacy of trade union organisations. It is also well known that you are thinking about a reform of the Rules of Procedure which aims to deprive the House of its ability to resist, oppose the wrong texts or improve the texts submitted to it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The explanation of vote by the Member of Parliament for On the Move is an illustration of what I have called assumed economic liberalism, but tinted with authoritarianism, people who do not support opposition, contradiction, or even proposals to improve the wrong texts they present to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u71	Mr Christian Jacob, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u72	Of course, we are going to postpone this motion, but I would like to return with one word to what led us to this debate. Our colleague in the group On the move, it has been recalled that the Quaestors exercise the budgetary control of our Assembly. With regard to a budget of some EUR 500 million, transparency is a necessity. We simply ask that this control and the order of expenditure can be done in a consensual manner by the Members of the majority, represented by two Quaestors, and by the opposition, represented by the third Quaestor. This has been the case since 1974. That is all we want to restore: in order to dispel all ambiguities and in order for the opposition to assume its responsibilities, this position of quaestor must return to the main opposition group. In view of the way in which this House operates, it seems to me that the number of Members needed to form the groups has been reduced too much. These must represent a current corresponding to a reality. When we were in the majority, as when we were in the opposition, I always called for the formation of a group to be possible only from 10% of the total number, that is to say fifty-eight Members. I understand that this has not aroused a general enthusiasm. We can still discuss it, but there's no reason to stop in such a good way. We can go from fifteen Members to ten, and why not to seven, and why not to five. Why don't even four buddies who take a beer at the bar ask to set up a parliamentary group? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will have to go back to this issue in the working groups that you have set up, Mr President, but I am in any case in favour of raising the number of parliamentarians needed to set up a group. This will allow for a better balance in our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u73	In the general debate, Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u74	Mr President, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution that we are considering is particularly important. Since it is a matter of allocating the key positions of the most important body in our country's most important parliamentary chamber, there can be no unwritten rule. Because it is primarily a matter of transparency, the Constructive Group naturally supports the spirit of this motion for a resolution. By dedicating the system of the scale of points and organizing the meeting between the group chairmen to decide on the distribution of Bureau posts, we will promote the emergence of consensus. Consensus is necessary for the proper functioning of the National Assembly. Whether it is the determination of the agenda, the conduct of meetings or committees in such a way as to legislate in good conditions, nothing can be done without respect, without dialogue, without taking into account the proposals of each other. That is why effective and proportionate representation of each group, whether it belongs to the majority or the opposition, is absolutely essential. Whatever group we belong to, we must have our say. We must not only be informed of the decisions that are taken, but we must be able to influence them, in proportion to what the group to which we belong represents. For, basically, even if we need to understand the demands of the most minority groups, the only legitimacy we have in this regard is that given to us by our fellow citizens in the last elections. In the decision-making of the Bureau or any other body of the Assembly, it is normal that proportionality prevails and that the larger groups have more weight than the others. However, and this is the meaning of the first amendment that the Constructive Group will defend earlier, some positions should be shared among all groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u75	Between friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u76	I am thinking in particular of the posts of Vice-Presidents. The function of vice-president is not political: it is a mission of organizing our assembly. The question was never whether a vice-president should be from the opposition or the majority. Therefore, it seems to me normal that each group should be given a vice-chair. This would contribute to the plurality and good organization of our debates, as well as to the information of all groups. A sitting chairman is not in a political position: he organizes the debates, respecting each other. We have discussed the whole summer of the moralization and transparency of public life: this measure would seem to us to be a further step in this direction. The second amendment will deal with the distribution of posts within the Bureau, mainly on the necessary information provided by the Quaestors. These will be appointed on the basis of a total of points, in accordance with the procedures laid down in our Rules of Procedure, but it seems to us logical that the group presidents should be informed of the quaestors' activities. Indeed, those of us who have been in this house for some time were sometimes surprised to find that the same office had been renovated several times in a few months. It must be acknowledged that, whatever the quality of the Quaestors, it is still quite difficult to obtain precise information. We have therefore raised these two issues in committee and, Madam rapporteur, you have given us your point of view. As far as the Quaestors are concerned, you reminded us of the existence of the clearance committee. However, to practice it for several years, we know very well that his office is purely accounting. Jean-Christophe Lagarde cited the example of his former office, completely renovated in May; A new vice-president arrived and the office was completely redone again in June. If the group presidents were informed of this type of expenditure, we would avoid its proliferation, the functioning of this House would be improved and the money of the French taxpayers would be more respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u77	There's been a waste...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u78	[[Smile]] So there's a little waste in this house? That would be true! Our chairman has set up working groups. Of course, they have the merit of being there, but we cannot be told, every time we have an idea, every time we have a proposal, that we have to wait for them to come together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u79	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u80	I will not say, like Clemenceau, that when you want to bury a problem, you create a commission, but it looks a bit like it. If you wanted to wait for the conclusions of the working groups, you also had to wait for the conclusions on the matter before us and not put this motion for a resolution on the agenda. The creation of these working groups is a good idea, but on some very specific points we could already move forward together. [[Applause on a few benches in the LC group]] These are our group's few objections. We agree with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, but we think it is possible to go a little further pending the very good ideas that our colleagues in the working groups will not fail to bring to light.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u81	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u82	Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which we are considering this evening aims to incorporate into the Rules of Procedure an already old operating practice and to ensure the implementation of constitutional principles. My remarks will focus on three ideas. First of all, it is a provision of a priori technical nature, but the political effects of which are important for our parliamentary democracy. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is rather simple: to codify fairly a system of distribution of the posts of Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries of the Bureau of the National Assembly. The principle of this system is proportionality, both as regards the definition of the importance of posts and responsibilities and the distribution of them among parliamentary groups. The proposal emphasises the consensual nature of the agreement between groups, which must first chair it. It also evokes the place of the opposition, since one of the quaestors must belong to it. Overall, this provision takes up almost as old a practice as the institutions of the Fifth Republic. The "distribution" – in the functional sense – of positions responds to a need to share responsibilities within our assembly. While the provision reinforces the legitimacy of an acquired practice, it also complements the provisions of the current National Assembly Rules giving powers to opposition groups. I am thinking in particular of Rule 16 of our Rules of Procedure, which sets up a special committee of fifteen members to verify and clean up the accounts of our House and whose bureau includes a chairman, who can only be a member of a group that has declared itself to be opposed. I am also thinking of Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that only one Member from a group that has declared himself to be opposed can be elected to the chair of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control. The set of provisions already in force and the one we are about to discuss help ensure the equitable division of responsibilities between groups, between the majority and the opposition. Beyond the mechanism for promoting diversity of groups in the Assembly, these provisions implement constitutional principles that we must respect and, above all, sustain. Second idea: very concretely, it is a provision implementing one of the main constitutional principles of our Republic and our democracy, set out not in Title IV on Parliament but in Title I on sovereignty. Article 4, paragraph 3, of the Constitution establishes the principle that "the law guarantees pluralistic expressions of opinion and the equitable participation of political parties and groups in the democratic life of the Nation". It is indeed pluralism, fair participation and political groups participating in democratic life that are at stake here. Having recalled this basic principle, I would like to share with you some questions raised by this text. Several observations can be made. On the one hand, the division of responsibilities is by nature "quota". It is in the sense that it depends not only on the results of the national elections, but also on the positions taken by the groups following the same elections during the legislature. As we know, the groupings and formations of groups of deputies are made in our institutional system according to the majority fact resulting from the election of the President of the Republic, between those who support the President and those who propose a political alternative to his essential choices. The opposition is defined after the elections, but also according to the positions taken and the votes in the course of the legislature. On the other hand, membership of a political group in the opposition is based on a declaration, but not on the recognition of significant and consistent votes. It is Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure of this House that defines what an opposition group is. Simply put, the majority group is the one with the highest number of employees. Other groups are minority groups, except those who have themselves defined themselves as opposition groups. In other words, what prevails, as it stands, is the declarative nature of the opposition. So – this is my third observation – this situation is not without problems. Indeed, a group can claim its membership of the opposition and, yet, almost systematically support the choices of the executive and its majority in the Assembly. Thus, a parliamentary group can register as an opposition group and support all government texts. Part of the majority can even claim the status of "opposition" and support the texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u83	[[Smile]] What do you mean? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u84	The notions of majority and opposition are therefore random and sometimes confusing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u85	We need clarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u86	That is why we support the principle of codification of the practice of the points supporting posts within the office and their distribution on a proportional basis. Nevertheless, we wonder whether it would not be appropriate to clarify what the opposition is today by more objective elements...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u87	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u88	... the mere declaration in order to guarantee the representativeness of the groups without leaving them to appreciate it, because they could divert their minds from it while respecting the letter of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u89	The vote on the labour law is a criterion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, is it not in our interest to prevent a misappropriation and misappropriation of a system which is intended to be virtuous, but which, even because of a changing scope, would have the opposite effect to that sought and would tend to exclude, in fact, a fair representation of the currents of thought and votes in favour of representative declarations and intentions? We will support an amendment to that effect. Thus, it seems to us possible to limit the risk of diversion of a system that is normally virtuous by putting a guard against it: in opposition is the one who does not vote the texts that define a majority – "being in it or not", I would say, to paraphrase an immense author... The aim is to go beyond the declarative nature of membership and to embody it by observing the vote of major and significant texts defining a policy, the majority which supports them and those who oppose it, and by crossing these elements with the numerical nature of those groups. In other words, it is a matter of reconciling the declarative and the real. We therefore propose to include this safeguard in the Assembly's Rules of Procedure by providing that only those groups which have refused to vote on confidence after using the first paragraph of Article 49 or which have rejected the draft laws on finance and the financing of social security in the same session are part of the opposition. This clarification is intended to give a more substantial definition of the concept of a minority group supporting and constituting the majority with the majority group and thus to distinguish them from the opposition group(s). Indeed, while the status of opposition group opens up a set of specific rights – for example, obtaining the chairmanship of the Finance Committee – the benefit of this status is based here only on a statement that may have no serious correspondence with reality. Finally, the exchanges in committee led to the rejection of the accuracy of a distribution of posts at the highest balance – albeit calculated on the basis of a weighting – which had raised questions about possible effects favouring the smallest groups. Finally, we support the principle of codification in our Rules of Procedure of a provision already applied by wishing to remove any possibility of misappropriation of procedure and by clarifying the concepts of minority groups and opposition. I hope that these issues will be clarified during the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u91	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u92	Mr President, Madam President and rapporteur, we are discussing the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of our House and I must therefore say that, like many here, I am discovering the procedure. It is only one section of the regulation that is amended, and for a political rather than a technical reason. No doubt this is a summer promise after a stumbling block during the election of the Quaestors and because of obscure questions related to the composition of the Bureau of the Assembly – issues that are not of interest to the French, but are passionate about the right of our House. This is therefore a procedure for collective discussion: together we are discussing the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Usually, these discussions take place within the Bureau and in study groups that are not necessarily open to everyone – and even if one sits in one of these groups, it is not always possible to find the time to participate in its work, given the simultaneousity of these meetings with those, for example, of the committees seized for opinion on a budget. Everything should be done "at the same time": we are beginning to get used to it. I find it a pity that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure has been dealt with by the Law Committee alone. Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u93	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u94	How about another commission? Would Members of other committees be less interested in the Rules of Procedure? I think it applies to everyone. I wanted to throw this little stone in the pond to remind you that it is within this Chamber that the discussions are most interesting, because we are all present here and we can defend our amendments there. Yet President François de Rugy unilaterally decided to set up working groups. While we had debated for hours the restoration of confidence, an extremely interesting subject, the Bureau of the Assembly decided in an instant and announced that the Members' pension scheme would be modified and incorporated into the general scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u95	Do you regret that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u96	[["Ah! » and applause on the benches of the REM group]] [["Oh! » on the benches of the REM group]] On the substance, it suits me very well, but on the form, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give you an intimate conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u97	Is that really necessary?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u98	The means involve the ends. When you use unilateral and authoritarian methods, you should not be surprised that they do not have the general agreement, that they do not mobilize people around you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u99	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u100	And so the President's announcements do not give us hope for an open democratic debate on these issues, in which we would all be called upon to participate. The Bureau alone can decide on extremely important matters, and we have tabled a number of amendments to correct that. The Group of the European People's Party intends to take up this debate on the amendment of the regulation to make many other proposals which go far beyond this single article, to which little is understood because of a somewhat technocratic drafting – with its 2,5, 3 and 4 points – except that it concerns the right-wing side of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u101	And not the left?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u102	We have made several proposals to make some of the procedures in this House less opaque and to promote procedures that respect democratic debate. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] Progress can be made on the rights of MPs, including those belonging to opposition groups or minority groups. In some cases, we would benefit from a more written procedure, or at least a more adversarial one. When an amendment is found to be contrary to Article 40 of the Constitution, it is refused...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u103	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u104	... without the author being able to propose his own interpretation of article 40. Furthermore, if an amendment is tabled on time, but is considered inadmissible beyond the deadline for tabling amendments, it is no longer possible to propose an amended version. We should be able to have an adversarial discussion around this article 40. What's the big deal? Although the Constitution contains an article 40, it also guarantees the right of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u105	As if you had not had the right to table amendments so far!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u106	What boundary should be established between the right of amendment, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, and the right to refuse an amendment, which is also guaranteed? It is problematic, I repeat, that our procedures do not provide for adversarial discussion. It is ultimately up to the majority to interpret this article and to decide, for example, that a receipt for identity checks would cost far too much – and therefore an amendment to that effect cannot be defended. For our part, we believe that such issues must be the subject of contradictory political debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u107	Get back out of here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u108	And in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u109	There are also problems of functioning: I am thinking of certain sexist, racist, anti-Semitic or xenophobic behaviour that may arise in this House, at the turn of a speech that flies away and remains in the air, while it deserves to be the subject of an adversarial debate or even sanctions. Finally, we must define acceptable working conditions. As you have all seen, for someone who wants to get involved, the pace of work in this assembly is absolutely frightful. We could spend our lives in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u110	Isn't that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u111	... while, at the same time, we are being asked in the electoral district, in the real world. We are not meant to remain cloistered, locked between us for five years. What about the late sittings, and the deadlines for convening? When we receive an audition call in the evening for the next noon, how can we organize it? The conditions under which democratic debate takes place are not good for normal humans.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u112	There's no normal men, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u113	[[Smile]] I don't have a hologram under my elbow! If the assembly finances holograms, we can discuss them again, but that's not the point. The real question is the life of our assembly – and life, all of a sudden. It is for this reason that we will defend several amendments aimed at creating a crèche and day-care service...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u114	For provincial MPs, this will be of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u115	...not only for us, deputies, but also for the collaborators, collaborators and staff of the National Assembly. I am glad that, as a result of the rejuvenation of this House, such a question can be put on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u116	How about a Christmas crèche?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u117	But I'm a little disappointed that we didn't put it down earlier, because it's not just the Members who work in this house. We have to review our working rhythm: we start at fifteen o'clock and finish at one o'clock in the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u118	Ask for overtime!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u119	Put down fewer amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u120	It is not a question of amendments, and I hope you do not dispute the right of amendment, which is guaranteed by the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u121	Abbreviate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u122	There is another question that I am sure will interest you, that of bio in our collective restoration. Increasing this share would be a symbol of our participation in our country's ecological transition. Finally, parity within the Bureau should be guaranteed on a permanent basis. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As you can see, this is a large number of measures that we are proposing for you, looking forward to the advent of a 6th Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u123	We'll have to wait a bit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You and the members of your group, Mr Bernalicis, have repeatedly said that the process of reform of the National Assembly that I launched is closed. However, there is no more open process than this one. Everyone can participate, including our fellow citizens. As far as the Bureau is concerned, you may have been misinformed by the Member of your group who sits there...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u125	We learned it in the press!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... since the issue of the Members' pension plan has been discussed at several meetings of our Bureau and the final decision on the modus operandi has not yet been taken. We may very well disagree on the substance, but there is no need to hide behind the form. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u127	[[Smiles and applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes there is good news! After losing the match against the Germans with Alstom, after losing the match against the Italians with STX, France has just won 2-1! That's at least good news for today!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u128	We beat the USSR!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u129	As things stand, this motion for a resolution to amend the rules of procedure of our House is a small text. With this unique article, it is no more or less a matter of engraved in the marble a traditional, or rather consensual, practice which, until then, wants the opposition to be assigned one of the quaestors' posts by virtue of the balances of national representation. I would like to start by reminding you of the context in which this motion for a resolution arose and then propose that it be given more scope. With this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, it is a matter of avoiding the replay in the future of the pantsnade that we have seen when this House was set up. In June, we, the opponents of Mr Macron's liberal orientations, who oppose the spirit and letter of his policy, witnessed a quarrel between two right-wing parties arguing the question. On the one hand, a "historical canal" group openly claiming the standard of opposition to the executive; On the other hand, a group decided, in fact, to take the train in motion, i.e. to support mainly the Government's projects...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u130	It's a bit like you with La France insoumis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u131	... but also pretending, at the same time, to the opponent's label to be awarded the position of quaestor consented to the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u132	We'll share it with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u133	We have witnessed a grip for means, a family dispute, while, in our view, the differences between these rights and the camp of the President of the Republic have, in substance, with the acceptance of ultraliberalism, the pursuit of rigour and gifts to the rich, the thickness of a sheet of cigarette paper.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u134	We're ultra-liberals? Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u135	It's a little glass history: a half-full opposition against a half-empty opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u136	I don't know if it's empty, but it's hollow!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u137	The single article in this text is therefore reduced, and even reducing. Its main aim is to resolve the crisis opened by the election of the questure by giving the opposition a right of control. Today, however, there is not a single opposition, but oppositions of a very diverse nature. It is not by formally admitting that one of them participates in the management of the Assembly that we will guarantee pluralism. This resolution, we want to propose that you make it grow by relying precisely on its founding principle, which is to "ensure the effective and proportionate representation of the opposition in the Assembly's organs". All the Republicans, all the Democrats on these benches can agree on this: the opposition must have its representation absolutely guaranteed in the organs, in all the organs of our assembly. We can go back to the sources, to the Enlightenment, to the history and philosophy that precede and transcend our democracy in its present form to agree on this point. In reality, it is a matter of making Voltaire live the formula he lent: "I do not always agree with what you say, but I will fight until death so that you have the right to say it. This principle, on which the building of our representative democracy is based, is the real issue of this text, beyond the events I have recalled. And if this principle justifies the adoption of such a resolution, which we believe, it is reasonable, legitimate, desirable even to extend it, to deploy it in its effects beyond the narrow framework of this single article. That is the meaning of the amendments that we will propose to you, as a prelude to the reform of the regulation. They are in line, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the resolution you are submitting for our approval, but they will strengthen our House even more and better. In essence, we believe that this debate is not a technical debate, but a political debate and whether or not we want to create the conditions for pluralistic expression in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u138	[["Ah! on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Make a cross in the calendar, this is Richard Ferrand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u139	If President Ferrand arrives, you must applaud him! Is it the Constructive who applauds?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u140	[[Smile]] It's the historic canal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u141	The historic canal? Notice, there may be two groups after your president's election...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u142	Mr. Ferrand gives us the honor of his presence. So we applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u143	Go on, Mr. Jumel, only you have the floor. The simplest thing is not to engage in a direct dialogue with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u144	National representation is an imperfect mirror, certainly, but a mirror, of our country in all the diversity of its territories and its inhabitants. It must therefore guarantee the expression of this diversity so that our citizens can find themselves there, otherwise it will widen the gap between the people and their representatives even further. But let us not confuse the means and the bottom! The bottom line is not to get all of us dressed in the "tech" costume, young, well combed – as far as I'm concerned, you can't say that I'm well combed...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u145	[[Smile]] Not young, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u146	... geek, modern, high-tech or anything you want, a member of a consensus assembly, representing a society that lives in the illusion of the absence of conflict, in a world where the problems of the end of the month do not exist, and which could therefore legislate in a perfectly smooth, perfectly technocratic way, carrying out its work as legislator in the greatest indifference. For this is indeed the current temptation of the executive power: to create this perfect legislator of the twenty-first century; to think of it, to design it and then impose it by taking the opinion to witness the crisis of our democracy. We will discuss this in a few weeks' time, but already the intentions and attitudes of the President of the Republic leave little doubt about the prototype of this future legislator, also desired by the President of the Assembly. This legislator would be less numerous, less expensive, faster; It would therefore be more techno, more efficient, without affect. And we do not openly admit – but this is the background we are dealing with – that efficiency rhymes here with obedience, that efficiency means interchangeability, and that this legislator of the future and his double will be exclusively technical.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u147	It's so easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u148	In short, the new world without prosperity, without soul, without territorial foundation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u149	Thank you for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u150	On the contrary, we believe that we must deepen our representative democracy by giving the opposition, the opposition, the means to work, to express themselves, to express the voices of those who represent the population in its diversity. We believe, on the contrary, that we must allow time for debate in this House, in interaction with public debate, including with the social movement, which has not been allowed by the ordinances and by the step-by-step work since the beginning of the legislature. The principles that guarantee representative democracy as they have been written for centuries are unsurpassable, we must have the wisdom to recognize it. It includes the objective of "ensuring effective and proportionate representation of the opposition in Assembly bodies". You are proposing today to improve the application. We acknowledge this and will therefore vote for this resolution by asking you, in a consistent manner, in the continuity of what is behind this resolution, to adopt our amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u151	So it's not free!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u152	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ... to make this text grow, to spread its democratic reach, beyond the narrow framework of this unique article, perhaps beyond the sectarianism that too often prevails in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u154	[["Ah! » on several benches of the LR group. – Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr. Richard Ferrand has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u155	A little trick by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u156	[["At last! » on several benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, here we are in a public sitting, finally,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u157	Very good introduction! It's a revelation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u158	I appreciate it. ... in order to consider the resolution that we support, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular its Article 10. There is one question that we want to answer: why should we look at this proposal now, without waiting for the reform of the functioning of the National Assembly, which will be presented in a few months' time?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u159	Because you have remorse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u160	Our chamber brings together the national representation; we come from the democratic choice of the sovereign people; We represent our country in all its diversity, including political diversity. It would therefore be inconceivable that the oppositions, numerous in addition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u161	Too many!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u162	... in their various components and sensitivities, cannot have a say in our common home. However, the current situation is not satisfactory since, among the oppositions, the main group having declared itself an opposition has decided not to be represented in the Bureau of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u163	Have you decided?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u164	We've been forced!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u165	No, Mr. Ferrand is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u166	You're in bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u167	Yet the balance between majority and opposition is an essential component of our democracy. Therefore, it is all the more necessary to set an example in national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u168	That's not what you did!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u169	That is why we decided to act now, even before the beginning of the ordinary session, by institutionalizing an unwritten practice which has been applied since the birth of the Fifth Republic in 1958.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u170	There's nothing for us, little groups!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u171	This practice allows for the distribution of positions within the Bureau of the National Assembly by respecting a necessary balance between the majority and the oppositions. The method consists of using a subtle point system during the group chair meeting that takes place prior to the election of the Bureau. The point allocation allows the responsibilities of Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries to be assigned in accordance with the political configuration of the National Assembly. By including this practice in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as we propose, we will do much more than engrave in the marble a parliamentary tradition: we will guarantee the effective and proportionate representation of oppositions in the Bureau of the National Assembly. Let us now turn to the scope of this reform. We have chosen to confine it to Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, as has just been set out. Therefore, issues as important as parity in the Assembly will have to be resolved in the context of the overall reform of the institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u172	Why wait?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u173	We fully trust the various working groups that have been set up recently: they will certainly make relevant proposals. Finally, this text is still a tense hand. I can only congratulate myself on the fact that this outstretched hand has been seized, since President Jacob...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u174	The excellent president Jacob!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u175	[["Ah! » on several benches of the LR group – Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... associated himself with François de Rugy, President of the National Assembly, Marc Fesneau, President of the Democratic and Related Movement Group, and myself, President of the La République Group on the move to table this motion for a resolution. We also attach concrete action to this initiative, since the result of the positive vote of our Assembly will be the resignation of several vice-presidents members of our group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u176	What about the quaestor?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u177	... which will allow the main opposition group to join the Bureau and, in a way, as I had had the opportunity to say before, to prefer dialogue rather than bouderie. So, as you can see, this is an important step. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] It is clear that our group will vote for this motion for a resolution, which it defends with others, in order to respect democracy in what it has dearest, namely precisely represented oppositions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u179	Mr President, Madam President and rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for this moment for long weeks, since, to put it quite simply, this evening a little sad or this very long afternoon of 28 June of the year of grace 2017, where, by curious coalitions, not to talk about a succession of unfortunate and unfortunate coincidences, a parliamentary colleague, who is no longer necessarily on the same shore as us, far away from it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u180	So it's a drift!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u181	...was elected as a quaestor. Those we had appointed, Annie Genevard and Marc Le Fur for the vice-presidents and Eric Ciotti for the quaestor position, then found themselves far away on a boat sailing on rather complicated waves. This denied, to be very clear, the rights of the opposition. All of this leads us today to the consideration of a motion for a resolution that actually deals with a very specific point. This text seems excessive to some, secondary to others, but it is essential for us, because it will finally recognise the rights of the opposition. So it was this bizarreness – to paraphrase the words of a former Prime Minister about a High Assembly – that led to the exclusion of the Republican Group, yet the largest of the opposition groups, from the responsibilities that seem essential to the proper functioning of this Assembly and, therefore, our democracy. This explains why this text was jointly presented by Rugy's President, President Ferrand, President Jacob and President Fesneau. All these groups represent 460 Members out of 577, which gives us real weight, it is important to note. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] So far, on these issues, we are moving forward by consensus, contrary to what happened last June. Moreover, I note that there is also a consensus on some benches against the amendment of the regulation, the extremes gathering on this point, in a somewhat demagogic way – we will probably come back to that earlier. A democracy works, as you know, with a majority, especially under the Fifth Republic – it is not our group that will claim the opposite. The majority fact indelibly permeates our Fifth Republic; It is the very mark of its institutions. Our colleague Marietta Karamanli recalled just now what the weight of the majority was by asking himself, moreover, about the very notion of the majority. Back from what was being done under the third and fourth As republics, our institutions seek to create, to avoid instability, a fairly strong and coherent bloc. There is therefore a majority and, no doubt, opposition, but one of them has more weight, because it represents more of our citizens and, simply, because of its digital power, because it has more parliamentarians than the others. In all Western democracies, the rights of the opposition are respected. The opposition even sometimes enjoys a status, as is the case in the United Kingdom, Germany and other countries. Until now, consensus has been achieved through unwritten rules, which had the value of a law, because they drew their ancient sources from the Third and Fourth Republics – excuse for the little –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u183	...notably for quaestors. These posts are important, as are all posts within the Office. In fact, the Office is recognized as having important collective responsibilities: it exercises significant regulatory power in terms of the organization, allocation and operation of services, allowing us to work on a daily basis; It intervenes in a number of parliamentary procedures. In particular, Mr Bernalicis, you have raised the question of admissibility under article 40 of the Constitution. Sometimes the cutlet falls, which we accept more or less easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u184	Less than more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u185	Without making it a political matter, the question may indeed arise. Finally, the Office has more specific responsibilities, in particular for the application of judicial measures. The Office is therefore of considerable importance. So far, however, once again by consensus, the opposition was widely represented. Thus, a quaestor's position has been assigned to the opposition on an ongoing basis since 1973, while, for all other functions, the practice has been continuous since 1958. It is therefore possible to speak of a genuine parliamentary custom or even a constitutional custom. All the constituent elements of the custom are indeed combined: it is a practice which has become a legal rule, with a repeated, constant use – one can speak of homogeneity of the precedents – in the long term. I even add the opinio juris, which is the conviction to act in accordance with the law. In this respect, it is now necessary to move to a higher speed, since it seems that this constant use is not unanimous. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I repeat, it is a matter of giving the weight that is his to the numerically majority group and recognized as such by the opposition. No one disputes the place of the other opposition groups: their democratic legitimacy is, of course, very real.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u186	You're six times less numerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u187	But you will allow me, without wanting to be trivial, to rely on a few figures, which seem to show that the political weight is not completely the same: our group has one hundred and one Members, and that of La France insoubates fifteen or sixteen, which does not discredit in any way...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u188	Seventeen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u189	We are France's first opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u190	Seventeen! 8% increase in a few moments! However, strictly egalitarian representation would, in fact, be unequal and undemocratic. Of course, this motion for a resolution does not address all possible questions on the functioning of our Assembly. Like other colleagues, I refer these questions to the working groups set up by the President of Rugy some 15 days ago. A former President of the Republic said that time must be given: we will have time to amend the drafts and to propose a number of reforms which, in fact, will perhaps come back, as part of a more comprehensive reform, on the mechanism we are considering this evening. We'll see about it. At this stage, in order to avoid a full debate, we will simply focus on the Bureau, which is an essential point. We will defend the principle of proportionality, which seems the most appropriate and will make it possible to move in the right direction. This draft resolution merely reinforces certain uses and engraves into the marble, which for more than sixty years was only in the accounts and in the heads. This will allow our democratic life to breathe and develop. An important group, the Republicans, will again participate in the functioning of the assembly, in a pivotal period when our institution is modernising, on the basis of proposals to which we are all, regardless of our political sensitivities, who are called upon to contribute. That goes without saying, but it may be better to say it, the Republican Group, which is at the initiative of this draft resolution, will vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u191	We're disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u192	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... and will oppose, for the reasons set out at the moment, the amendments that would disrupt the process, not by sweeping them aside, but by proposing to examine them in greater depth in the coming weeks. In other words, every day is enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u193	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u194	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said; I will therefore try to shorten and simplify my remarks, especially since the evening and our debates are going to be long. This motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of our House is the result of a consultation between the President of our House and the Presidents of the three largest groups in number. It is not only a question of ensuring the fair representation of each of the groups, but also of guaranteeing the place of the parliamentary opposition in the administrative and financial organization of the National Assembly, as the spirit of our institutions wants, which claims and defends the pluralism of opinions. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the election of the Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries shall take place in accordance with the political configuration of the Assembly. In this respect, and as far as possible, this distribution must be made by consensus, for the proper holding of our debates and the image that we refer to the citizens. The single article in the motion for a resolution that we are considering today is precisely aimed at finding the way to consensus by rationalizing the distribution of posts. The decision remains the responsibility of the Conference of Presidents, who will in future have a number of points allocated according to the size of the respective staff of each of the parliamentary groups they represent, on the basis of a proportional calculation. This system is part of the traditional functioning of our Assembly, and the amendments to section 10(3) of the Rules of Procedure are intended only to ensure this good practice over time. The very approach of this motion for a resolution reflects our willingness to work together to transform the functioning of the National Assembly, as it was initiated by the President of Rugy. By co-signing this proposal with Presidents Ferrand and Jacob, we confirm that it is important for us to reach a comprehensive agreement so that everyone can benefit from their rightful place and that no group feels harmed. We also support the rapporteur's proposals adopted by the Committee on Laws, which anticipate any difficulties that might arise from perfect equality between two groups. More broadly, we wish to include this reform in the vast renovation of the rules and procedures initiated by the President, which should enable the National Assembly to modernize itself. The consultations launched at the initiative of the President of Rugy aim to make our institution more open, transparent, but also more effective and fair. The democratic aspiration of French citizens has never been so strong...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u195	What are you doing with your abstention?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u196	...and we know that we cannot afford to appear to safeguard our pre-square. The possibility for the French to ensure that their institutions are managed rigorously, democratically and transparently will help to re-establish the bond of trust that has gradually dissipated with their representatives, when it is essential for the democratic life of our country. Our collective success goes through this path, that of trust. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] This motion for a resolution, at its level, is part of this renewal of the policy which marks the beginning of the quinquennium of the President of the Republic and whose first step was taken with the adoption, this summer, of the law for confidence in political life. The National Assembly honours itself in reforming itself to guarantee the ever more democratic nature of our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u197	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u198	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will insist more on the concept of opposition than on the technical calculation of points for the composition of the members of the Bureau of the Assembly. For a long time in France, the Jacobin spirit, the legacy of the theories of the Enlightenment, and especially those of Jean-Jacques Rousseau who founded the majority government, prevented the recognition of an institutionalized opposition. We favour a system where only the general will deriving from the majority prevails, and disagreement as well as opposition is therefore excluded. In the same vein, the strength of the theory of the separation of powers meant that opposition could only be envisaged between executive and legislative powers, while our systems gradually turned to the majority fact, which we know today, where Parliament and government act together. Thus, as Dean Vedel concluded, "a democracy... is an executive supported by the Nation and controlled by a parliamentary opposition." In 2006, again, the recognition of the opposition had some difficulties, when the Constitutional Council censored our assembly, which had wished to revise its rules – as we are doing right now – by providing that each group, at the time of its formation, declares its membership of the majority or of the opposition. This distinction was impossible, according to the Council, since the Constitution did not recognize any existence of the opposition. This recognition has only recently taken place, even though we have already seen some progress in favour of the opposition in 1974, notably with the institutionalization of the question-and-question-sessions in the Government, but above all with the opening of the referral of the Constitutional Council to sixty deputies or senators. It is finally the major constitutional revision of 23 July 2008 that enshrines the opposition, recognizing it specific constitutionally guaranteed rights, which were specified in the new regulation of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u199	Thank you, Nicolas Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u200	Nicolas Sarkozy, the Democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u201	Thus institutionalized, the opposition now has a quasi-status based on written standards as well as practices that have acquired by force of time the value of constitutional or parliamentary custom. What's more normal in a modern democracy? Professor Hans Kelsen said: "By definition, the majority presupposes the existence of a minority; and consequently, the right of majority presupposes the right of a minority to exist." The opposition can thus be broadly defined as "the political parties or groups that disagree with the government or the political regime", according to Pierre Avril's terms. The Assembly's Rules of Procedure have adopted a definition of the opposition group by an organic criterion: the group which has declared itself as such is considered to be opposed. The opposition, however, remains "an elusive reality, between law and politics," even when we had, for decades, an easily identifiable left and right. Indeed, a parliamentarian can always belong to an opposition group, and, because of his freedom as well as by the force of the representative mandate, sometimes come into opposition with his own group to go, for a time, in the direction of the majority group. Even more so, the opposition is now more protective than ever. On the one hand, we have distinguished for a long time the opposition that is expressed in the republican framework, which accommodates the rules of the game and the political regime in force, and, on the other hand, that which, to oppose, goes so far as to challenge the legitimacy of the majority or even to question the regime. The opposition played and replayed the "symbolic trial of power." The political recomposition at work since last spring's elections gives us an unprecedented configuration: that of a new majority as wide as composite, built on the basis of Emmanuel Macron's project, which transcended some old divisions. Around this large majority there are several distinct oppositions, of disparate weight and more or less vehement. In this same movement seems to emerge a new concept, or rarely assumed as such: that of the so-called "constructive" opposition, which also raises, we see, some new questions in the division of roles between majority and opposition. This newness helps to justify the evolution of the rules that govern our Assembly, and the resolution before us is only one step. The recently established working groups, whose conclusions and recommendations we look forward to, should lead to an ambitious transformation in the functioning of our institutions. Finally, the recognition of the opposition and the guarantee of its specific rights are essential to the peaceful functioning of the parliamentary system, where it plays a valuable role as a counter-power within democratic institutions. It is by this useful role that it plays within the institutions that the opposition is legitimate, much more than by making itself heard on the street. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The resolution we are debating is just another step towards ensuring respect for and representation of the opposition in our House, pending even more ambitious reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u202	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u203	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are all different. Our journeys, our convictions, our temperaments sometimes and often differ. But in our differences, gathered here, we collectively form the National Assembly. From our differences comes this parliamentary vitality, in which the Republic is anchored. This National Assembly, which many of us are gradually apprehensive, is indeed the place in which our differences, all our differences, and all our bitterness must be expressed. At a time when our Assembly is hoping to modernize, we are entitled, and perhaps even in a position of duty, to broaden the debate and share our concerns and hopes. Tonight, our assembly is about to correct a mistake, a slip, a way out. The Republican Group supports the solution that will restore the necessary political balance in the Bureau of our Assembly. However, at a time when we are correcting this recent anomaly, should we not learn any lessons from this unfortunate episode? Should we erase the slate of the political monopoly of the questure? No. This episode cannot be erased so quickly, and we must have the collective humility to learn at least one lesson: it will have taken a few hours, a dose of opportunism, a little naivety to neglect forty-five years of republican tradition. Since 1973, no government, no majority, even if overwhelming and hegemonic, had dared to concentrate all the powers of the Assembly's management in the same hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u204	It's "democraty"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u205	In each legislature, the majority in place ensured that one of the quaestors' functions was returned to the opposition group. It was not an outdated arrangement or custom; It was a question of balance and democratic respect. It was a matter of sharing the management of this house, because any power, if mature, knows that the concentration of excess will always put it in danger. This balance broke out just a few hours after the new House had settled down. And today we must move from respected and shared practice until now to binding inclusion in our Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, when political morality cannot regulate itself, that it needs the rule so much to discipline itself, it has already largely failed. Wouldn't the majority and their accomplices have failed on this question of questure? Many of us have entered this House as new elected representatives and are still in the learning phase. That's my case. Maybe it's a chance for our country. But we are not the first to beat the heart of democracy here, and we will not be the last. Whatever pride we feel, we should remember that we are only passing through. Before we existed republican traditions, they are neither the reliquaries of the old world nor the expression of the forces of conservatism. They are the expression of the republican structure that has always kept our country high. A presidential election and parliamentary elections in its path cannot despise everything of this inheritance in the name of a pseudo-modernity. No, the Republican calendar does not start on May 7, 2017. No, our responsibility is not to sweep everything away. Rather, it is to build and innovate on the basis we know: our institutions, which are solid, the separation of powers, the autonomy of Parliament, the freedom of elected representatives, the strength of the contradictory debate. To those who think that my speech is ridiculous, I just want to say that he is in fact fully aware of the mission of everyone, aware that before us other Members sat in this House, built the law, wore the tie, respected these places and symbols. So, at the time of the new world, let us ask ourselves about the Members whom, with all our strength, we should refuse to be. We should refuse to be fashionable Members of Parliament, to be too wise, too lukewarm, more subject to language elements than to their own conscience; refuse to be sprinting, rushing, rushing MPs; refuse to become deputies without an anchor and therefore without citizens to whom to account, as placed under the sole control of national electoral firms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u206	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u207	We refuse it. We refuse to incarnate start-ups, who are anxious to streamline but who lose sight of justice. We refuse to be deputies Darty, responsible for the sole after-sales office of a President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u208	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u209	We refuse to believe ourselves to be holders of the truth, never to doubt, to be convinced that the only majority fact is enough to be right. Finally, we should hope and hope to remain free, turbulent Members who can raise their voices when they believe that they deserve it, because it is nothing worse than the mercilessness and the weakening of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u210	You're losing your memory, my colleague! I've had a different time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u211	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While modernity or fashion matters, as long as in our future choices, there is still the demand and freedom to be a full member of parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u212	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u213	In the beginning, the French shouted their exasperation at the evolution of political parties. Last March, 83% of them even considered our democracy to be working rather poorly. Fiat lux: The running Republic won the election. Jupiter told us about a renewed conception of political life. However, it was suspected that this skilful misuse of the law on the financing of political parties bewildered the citizens. I recently learned that my motion for a resolution to open a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the financing of En Marche was refused to protect the office of President of the Republic. I note that this was not the case in the Elysée poll case; But transparency is probably only valid for others. Jupiter called the staging On the move. There were some misunderstandings, and there was the opening of the parliamentary session: it was the first round on political representation. Jupiter then said: Let us make a law on the transparency of political life. We were then told that the corruption of French political life came from the jobs of sons and daughters of elected officials and the convictions for press offences entered in the criminal records of parliamentarians. Turning the eye away from trade between major groups, from the divestiture of French industrial florets, from the alignment of France's eastern policy with that of the Gulf countries by going to search for the reprehensible crimes of each other, is a technique that works well. However, it has little to do with the necessary question of the reality of the instruments of corruption that still exist in our country. There was a lot of debate in the media, and a lot of disappointment: it was the second round on the law on the transparency of public life. Jupiter then said: Let us forbid members of the Republicans group from obtaining a few functions in the National Assembly. That the assembly be unanimous and that the only alternative parliamentary groups be constructive. There was scandal, and there was media condemnation, so we came to this text. This was the third round, which everyone admitted was not in the honour of the Government. Jupiter says: Let us propose the text to the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u214	Emmanuel Macron, the President of the Republic, would be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u215	And we debated it in the law committee. At that time I proposed a dozen amendments on the representation of non-registered persons. By way of amendment, I sought to break this glaring injustice of prioritizing the quality of Members according to whether they are members of a political group or not. In fact, the definition of minority groups and opposition groups is inadequate. The Assembly services analysed these proposals. There was one evening, there was one morning: it was the fourth parliamentary round and the examination of the laws in committee. Jupiter said nothing, but the exchanges were not very constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u216	We'll call you "Ms. non-attached Member of Parliament"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u217	Good morning, unregistered Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u218	It was learned that it was illegitimate for non-attached Members to be better informed about the proceedings of the Conference of Presidents, that it was not unfair to see groups enjoying the right to request solemn votes when they were sometimes fewer in session than non-attached Members, or that it was normal that not a non-attached Member could chair a friendship group. There was no luminaire in the sky of our exchanges, and no dawn of taking into account our proposals. It was a fifth and bad trick played by the non-registrants. [[exclamations on a few benches in the REM group]] Jupiter says that the European flag should not be removed from our Chamber. All we talked about was this, and for the reason: no change of importance occurred in the text. Condemned by provocation to exist, non-attached Members do not even have the right to express themselves in debates following a simplified examination procedure. Of course, no initiative was taken to facilitate the formation of a parliamentary group that would have improved political representation in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u219	It's called a working group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u220	In committee, membership in several groups had not been allowed, whereas this original solution would have allowed Members to come closer on themes rather than partisan contingencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u221	It's original!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u222	There was a television night, but no promising morning for fairness in our room. Jupiter thought it was good: it was a sixth round aimed at not changing anything for the status of non-attached MPs. Thus, the beginning of a text that will not change the lack of representation that tarnishes our political life came to an end. [[exclamations on a few benches in the REM group]] Jupiter will therefore rest from all his work: he has a clear majority to do so and the question of a concrete improvement of political participation is of little interest to him. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] These are the origins of the text we are considering today and, as you will understand, the reasons why I hope it will not be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u223	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u224	On the agenda of our debates this evening there is a limited text of reparation in its object, since it is a question of answering the problem, very concrete, very political, born from the election last June of the Bureau of the National Assembly. And we had to turn this page at a time when this office, precisely, is undertaking, on the initiative of the President of Rugy, to launch work on the reform and transformation of our institution, in consultation with each of the sensitivities that make up our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u225	Where's Mr. Ferrand?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u226	In essence, the value of the text before us lies less in its actual content than in the opportunity that several groups have taken to open the debate on the modernization of legislative work. And we must not regret this appetite for transformation. Thus our discussions in committee focused on the cumbersome legislative procedure, a double-edged concern since it will not be easy to arbitrate between the praise of slowness and the cult of speed. Thus, our debates have also extended to a deeply democratic question about the concept of political opposition, about the fundamental rights of political opposition, more generally about pluralism, and about the consequences to be derived from a partisan system deeply upset at the end of the presidential election. There are real issues that question what a modern and renovated parliament should be in a democracy that has been doubting for so many years about itself and the ability of its political class to reinvent itself and to reconnect with the principle of reality. These debates are not minor. They are so little that it would be regrettable to address them, and even more so to decide them at the turn of a text whose scope remains extremely limited. That is why you were right, Madam rapporteur, to reject the amendments aimed at broadening the scope of this text. Is this a dilatory way to rule out the thought that we must take on the future of our Assembly? Certainly not. The President of Rugy has already launched the road map to draw the contours of the parliament of the future, at a time when the democratic demands of our fellow citizens towards national representation limit to distrust, when it is not to democratic anger. In addition, the La République en marche group ardently bears this desire for transformation. It is even its raison d'être: to renovate practices, to turn your back on usages when they have no other effect than to brake or block. And we started this vast project by adopting, as of last summer, the law on public trust. The construction site is huge. Let us acknowledge that our assembly has too often let itself go to the theatricalization of debates – as we have seen again this evening – to the tyranny of postures, when it is not in search of the incident. So yes, we will have to find the art of civic conversation between the majority and the opposition, between the National Assembly and the French, and we will have to set the framework for it to try to achieve this goal, thanks to the overall reflection that was launched a few days ago. Before concluding, I would like to say that I am angry at the amendment tabled by France calling for the European flag to be removed from our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u227	Anger held back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u228	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Restless anger, quiet anger. There was quiet force, colleagues; There is now quiet anger.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u229	It's really a left thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u230	It's like constructive opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u231	Quiet anger is what we are incarnating with the Republic on its way. And if there is anger, it is because there is provocation, a provocation that has no other purpose but to seduce the news channels continues and to give the media the bone to eat that feeds them. There is anger because this amendment is only inspired by old nationalist thinking patterns. It must be said in this rostrum: this amendment demonstrates that one can claim to be unsubstantiated while being eminently, sadly conformist, since France insoumise repeats the most annoyed arguments of the extreme French and European right, no doubt because it chases, basically, the same despairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u232	You're astray with anger!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u233	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As much as we will reject many amendments that are useful to our debates because they anticipate work that is not completed, so much we will reject the amendment on the withdrawal of the flag of the European Union because, for our part, we firmly believe in Europe. And because we believe that it is up to our country to take up the European idea at its origin, without complacency on its current functioning, but with the awareness that our future is in the voluntary association of nation states determined to make their interests prevail over national selfishness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u234	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u235	Mr President, Madam Vice-President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for the Republic Group on the move, this text is not an opportunity to address in substance the global issue of modernising our work. It is only a question of restoring...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u236	to correct!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u237	... from now on a parliamentary use in force since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, so that our pluralistic functioning will continue, pending the results of a more in-depth common reflection. In fact, the length of the discussions in committee, the number of amendments tabled – 42 in committee, 99 in committee – demonstrate, if necessary, our full interest in the quality and effectiveness of our work in the service of France and the French. That also reflects the urgent need to make our Assembly more democratic, efficient and modern in its functioning. I dare at least hope that this was the deep motivation for such a debauchery of paper! Our conduct during the discussion, the examination of the amendments and the vote on this text will be emblematic both of our respect for our institution and of our willingness to reform it after due consideration. That said, there's a time for every thing. It seems to me somewhat cavalier to take the opportunity, if not the bounty, of this single-item proposal of 305 words, including title, in an attempt to transform almost overnight, almost subreptitiously, almost all, or little, of our Rules of Procedure. Indeed, some of us are a little "in advance of phase." Again, I dare not think that they simply want to short-circuit the work in progress. Their creativity will find it useful to work in the seven working groups set up by François de Rugy. I recall the titles, which are worth a lot of long speeches: Members' Statute; working conditions and employees; legislative procedure and opposition rights; means of monitoring and evaluation; sustainable development; digital democracy; opening and radiation. We must remember the realities and know how to look them in the face! The substantive issues addressed through the amendments that will be defended this evening, such as the definition of opposition and minorities, parity – in the Republic on the move, we have chosen to apply it without being told – or the organisation of parliamentary work, must be widely debated in the context of this comprehensive consultation. I can only encourage the authors of the amendments to participate actively in the various working arrangements proposed on these subjects to all citizens by the National Assembly. We will therefore not agree with the amendments which seek to alter the substance of Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure submitted by the co-signatories or whose content would anticipate the reflections and possible conclusions of the working groups. This evening we are simply considering a proposal co-signed by the President of the National Assembly and the Presidents of the three main groups on the plurality of the daily management of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u238	It's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u239	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This is all about this and, as far as we are concerned, we would like to see it implemented, pending the broader and deeper reform of our functioning, on which many of our colleagues are looking and to which I address, on behalf of the Republic on the move, our anticipated thanks and all our Republican support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u240	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u241	I now call, in the committee's text, the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u242	I have before me an amendment No 26, introducing an additional article before the single article. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u243	The purpose of this amendment is to insert before the single article the title "Strengthening the place and rights of Members, opposition groups and minority groups", which may apply to a range of amendments with this objective. We defend it for the sake of consistency, and to enhance the value of a discussion that goes far beyond the question of the number of points allocated to each post in the Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u244	Mrs Braun-Pivet, rapporteur, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u245	First of all, I note that the title proposed in this amendment could open up to an empty chapter if the following amendments were not adopted. Beyond that, we consider that the rights of the opposition are not the subject of this motion for a resolution, but of a working group – which you have initiated, Mr President – in which all groups can speak. This will be the place to think about the place as well as the definition of opposition groups and minority groups. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u246	Two speakers are inscribed on the article. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u247	Surprisingly, your urgency to give more power to those who already have it, and that in the name of equity between groups! A tour de force – or a new injustice? – if we believe the rapporteur, who announces without brows that she will oppose any amendment that would challenge the political balance acquired in committee. A famous conception of democracy, you will agree! As far as fairness is concerned, may I call your attention? The nineteen non-attached MPs – nineteen, since it seems that an amateur of helmet shots joined us – certainly do not defend the same political line as you, but like you, they were elected by the French. And yet, they don't have the same rights as you. Wouldn't there be something indecent here? All the deputies are the elected representatives of the nation, and in this capacity participate in the expression of the general will. Like you, we are the spokesmen in the French Chamber who, it is our difference, do not recognize themselves in the majority political parties, on the right and on the left. Yes, non-attached Members are not second zone Members, just as their voters are not second zone Citizens! [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] We have very different sensitivities among us, from right to left, but which echo the aspirations of a large number of Frenchmen. the way policy is made must change. So let's be – be! – Bold, and give the word to those who do not think like you. Do not be a Voltairian once in your life – the day you passed the baccalaureate – and allow the ideas of the French, of all the French, to move freely within our Chamber. Put an end to the omerta which has struck too many of our fellow Members for decades, put an end to a political system which is perclusive of mistrust, prejudice and even, we can say, deep intolerance. Plato claimed that democracy was a source of injustice, let it not be right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u248	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u249	I am saddened by what we have just heard from the Government or the Law Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u250	Where's the government?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u251	So we should not seek to improve the framework of this motion for a resolution? Finally, when one hears that it is a matter of defending a political agreement of the Republic in progress with itself, one understands that it is not at all a question of defending the common good, but of trying to find an answer to the pitiful election of a constructive majority-friendly election! [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] Before, and even under François Hollande, members of groups could still agree. They didn't need a regulation to discipline their mess. Today, the big parties are not even able to do so, underlining their exhaustion. So I ask the question: have you had the National Assembly debated for the only communication of the Republic on the move, or will you finally agree to broaden the debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u252	I have before me two amendments, Nos 27 and 18, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u253	With this amendment, we are entering the heart of the subject of this proposal to amend the regulation. This counter-proposal aims to increase the number of members of the Bureau by reserving three vice-presidents, two quaestors and six secretary positions for opposition groups and minority groups, the same number of positions being allocated to the majority group. The Bureau would therefore be somewhat equal, but the chairman, from the majority group, would retain a leading voice. We believe that there is no need to add a majority to the Bureau of the National Assembly – our common house – where decisions on the rules of life are rather made on the basis of consensus. Thanks to the President's predominant voice, the majority fact would be guaranteed. As we do not only work for our assembly, but I hope for posterity, we have tried to predict a number of situations. Given that it can be assumed that the majority has more than half of the seats, i.e. 289, and that the threshold for the creation of a group is 15 members, it is clear from a simple calculation that there could be up to 20 opposition and minority groups. If they were to be more than eleven, we propose to divide them by drawing lots. This alternative proposal seems more reasonable to us than yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u254	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u255	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We have already defended in committee the idea that each group should be given a vice-chair. These posts are not political posts, but organizational posts. It would be logical to allow each group, whatever its importance, to participate in the organization of our work. In committee, some objected that this reform would be costly; However, we propose to allocate the allowances. Others fear that this will lead to the creation of new groups; I hope we don't create a group just to get a vice president position!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u256	What a freshness!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u257	I've known them for years, and I don't have that idea from our colleagues. In concrete terms, these objections do not hold. We would like a well-founded answer to this question: why is it not possible for each group to be represented on the Bureau, with a vice-president position?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u258	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u259	With regard to Amendment No 27, I note that the Bureau is supposed to reflect the political configuration of the House. Splitting the number of positions between the majority and the rest of the groups would lead to an imbalance in the Bureau, which would no longer be representative. Similarly, increasing the number of Quaestors to four would unbalance the financial management of our assembly, since it would be more difficult to separate them. I will make the same objections to Amendment No 18. Today, there are seven groups. What will happen on the day there are fifteen? Having fifteen Vice-Presidents would upset the political balance of the Bureau, which I do not think is desirable. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u260	I have before me two amendments, No 52 rectified and No 1, which may be subject to a joint debate. Mr Louis Aliot has the floor to support Amendment No. 52, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u261	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u262	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u263	Much of our discussion is about this unique article, by which you wanted to correct the root of the recent controversy over the members of the Bureau. I'm ready to believe in your good will. Without naivety, it can be considered that you are taking this step, certainly insufficient. I therefore propose that you set the tone for the forthcoming debate. As you have seen in the amendments, we can be Corsicans, Dickrois or provençals, on the right or on the left, localists or Jacobins, we all make the same observation: the regulatory exclusion of non-attached Members. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] Gambetta did not wonder whether Thiers was registered or not to pick him up in 1870. I therefore propose that you include a Member who is not registered in the provisions of this single article. I dare imagine that, for you, the fact that you do not belong to a group is not a reason for shame so that it can prohibit membership in the Bureau of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u264	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u265	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Many amendments concern the recognition of Members who are not registered in our House. They have so little in common with each other that they cannot even agree on the tabling of amendments to amend this resolution. I fear that their heterogeneity will make them unable to agree to appoint their representatives to the various bodies. The many amendments they have tabled are very circumstantial, and far removed from the general interest which is supposed to animate us when we reform our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u266	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u267	From the evening to the morning, you are heard about transparency in this House: transparency, the same rules for everyone, etc. We simply propose that, within the Bureau of the National Assembly, no function can give rise to a complementary advantage of any kind. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] This objective provision should meet your desire for transparency. I am confident that you will make your speech and vote consistent tonight by adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u269	Opinion against this purely demagogic proposal. The advantages correspond to particular hardships and are therefore perfectly justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u270	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u271	The twelve secretaries mentioned in Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not given any clearly defined functions. We therefore find it unnecessary to weigh them in the scale of the single article of this resolution. It is an amendment of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u272	Mr Louis Aliot has the floor to support Amendment No 51 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u273	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u274	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after the single article. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u275	The various laws on parity have narrowed the gap between the number of women and men in our assembly. With regard to the National Assembly in particular, the share of women deputies rose from 6 per cent in 1993 to 27 per cent in 2012, and 39 per cent today. Our amendment is based on another one, which you yourself tabled in 2014, Mr President. It aims to establish parity within the Bureau of the National Assembly, which is the highest collegial authority of the Assembly. We welcome the efforts of the majority in this area, but we wish to include the requirement of parity in the Rules of the National Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This amendment should therefore logically obtain unanimity of votes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u277	Of course, both the committee and all Members of this House share your demand for parity in all bodies of the House. In fact, for the first time, the office is totally equal. For the first time, the Presidencies of Standing Committees are joint.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u278	Sign it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u279	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For the first time, a group is almost equal in this Chamber, since the Republic on the move is 48% female. It should be remembered, however, that this motion for a resolution aims at reaching a consensus between the groups. However, by imposing a number of additional conditions, we would make this agreement more difficult. I hope that the working groups of the National Assembly, which will shortly present the results of their reflections, will propose measures to achieve this objective at all levels of the Assembly, and not only within the Bureau. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] As it stands, the committee is issuing an opinion which is not favourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u280	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u281	This debate will not fail to repeat itself, but there will be a problem if you constantly refer us to the working groups and that we cannot include in the collective debate political symbols that remain important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u282	We'd have to get there already, in the working groups!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I do not think that the law on parity has been adopted in a perfect consensus. At some point, we need to know how to make strong political decisions. We too welcome the parity of the Bureau and support your approach, but it is problematic that you refuse to discuss this principle collectively and to include it in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u284	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u285	[[Applause from some non-attached Members]] I have a thought tonight for René Capitant, Raymond Forni, Jean-Pierre Michel, Pierre Mazeaud, all those men who were presidents of the Law Committee and of whom, Madam Rapporteur, who are also president of the Law Committee, you do not honor the memory by the indigence of your answers. It is lamentable to see you thus lowering the function to a level never seen in the parliamentary debate. We discover thanks to you, who regularly call us extreme right-wing, who call La France insoumise an extreme left-wing, what is extreme centre, sectarianism and narcissism that prevent you from accepting an amendment of which you recognize common sense. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Madam President, you are bringing this debate down to an unprecedented level! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u286	On Amendment No 35, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u287	I simply note that you have forgotten to mention, among all the eminent jurists who were presidents of the Law Committee, the only woman who held this position: Mrs Catherine Tasca, to whom I have the honour of succeeding as a woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u288	You don't honor him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u289	[[Vif applause on the benches of the REM group]] On the other hand, Mr Chenu, I would like to see the only unregistered Member who I never see on the Law Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u290	You realize the level! You're the president of the Law Commission, though! It's aberrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u291	You had the floor earlier, Mr. Chenu. There is no need to ask the rapporteur again. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u292	If there is unanimity in this House to vote on this amendment, let us not wait any longer and let us not burden the working groups any more. They have enough work to do with the subjects that are debated so as not to entrust them to those who are unanimous. Let's do some useful work for the working groups tonight, now, right now! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What image do we refer to our fellow citizens? That we postpone the measures on which we agree? Is that the renewal of democracy? If there is unanimity, let us vote on this provision! We will have done useful work and we will be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u293	I put to the vote Amendment No 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u294	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u295	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u296	Let us recall that, although Members of this House have all been elected in the same way, they are not treated in the same way. They are not equal in terms of both the right of expression and the means. We therefore propose to add an additional article after the single article to ensure that the President of the National Assembly guarantees not only the rights of the opposition, but also those of the minority. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] By accepting this amendment, you would show that this assembly is mature and makes the old world evolve towards the new world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u297	I have before me two amendments, Nos 58 and 17, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u298	The aim of this amendment is to improve the transparency of the work of the questure. The Quaestors play an essential role in preparing the Assembly's budget, managing appropriations and committing expenditure. Their work is one of Parliament's best kept secrets since, in accordance with the principle of financial autonomy, the Quaestors are only responsible for their management before their peers, through the special committee responsible for auditing and clearing the accounts, made up of some 15 parliamentarians. The NGO Transparency International France notes in its 2017 report that parliamentarians who sit on these committees regularly complain about their lack of power and their difficulties in exercising their vigilance. Our proposal seeks to improve transparency, which is all the more necessary as the press has already reflected inconsistencies between the published accounts and the documents submitted to the special committee. Progress has been made: the Quaestors publish a significantly more detailed annual report than before, since it now exceeds 200 pages; the National Assembly publishes on its website the list of all public procurements of more than 20,000 euros awarded since 2011. I spare you the long series of measures that have been taken. We propose to clarify the mechanism for monitoring and informing the management of the Assembly by requiring the Quaestors to publish monthly a summary of the opinions they have given and the decisions they have taken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u299	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u300	This amendment is based on the same logic. We want the Quaestors to inform the group chairmen of their decisions. This proposal would enhance the transparency that we talked about so much in July for Members. It would be good to apply it now to the management of this House, especially since we have nothing to hide. The Quaestors must be able to inform us. Of course, there is a special commission, but everyone recognizes it: it is useful, but it cannot go to the bottom of things, its role being confined to accounting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u301	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u302	The Quaestors, members of the Bureau, shall act under the authority of the latter. The Bureau is pluralistic, and it is not for the group presidents, even from the majority, or at the Conference of Presidents, to interfere in this management.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u303	That's not what I proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u304	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u305	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u306	This summer, the Government and the deputies of the majority led the life hard to the so-called privileges of the deputies, the remaining old ones of an old order. Accused of being wealthy people disconnected from the real, we have been deprived of our prerogatives, which are indispensable to the ingrained exercise of our functions. A glamour had even softened this sad debate: the Government committed itself, in the holding session, to abandon the ministerial reserve, no doubt in order to preserve the appearance of a certain parallelism of forms. Naturally, this provision has been censored. Since the revolutionary spirit is still blowing in our walls, since we must at all costs abolish the privileges and the old order, I simply propose that those who enjoy it should now be deprived of it. When one earns 12_213.31 euros gross per month, it is possible to pay his rent, without the State, therefore the French taxpayers, having to do so, especially when the apartments in question are located at the Palais Bourbon. Perhaps it would be good to make use of it all the representatives of the nation and to transform it into hotel rooms for the MPs who come from afar and who dispute the fifty rooms of the residence of 101 rue de l'Université. Of course, I have nothing against the Quaestors, just as the Government, of course, had nothing against the deputies. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] Go to the end of your logic, ladies and gentlemen, and end with the privileges!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u307	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u308	It is my understanding that these apartments are not only used by Quaestors, but are frequently used to receive delegations. I would also like to draw your attention to one point: you are aware that the constitutional reform announced is aimed in particular at reducing the number of Members of Parliament. It will be time, during its examination, to ask the question of the adequacy of the number of chambers and offices to the new number of Members. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u309	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u310	It is not normal for the administrative accounts of the parliamentary assemblies to remain outside the control of the regularity and timeliness of the Court of Auditors. The amendment clearly excludes judicial review by the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, it provides that the annual report drawn up by the committee responsible for auditing and clearing the accounts shall be forwarded to the Court of Auditors, which may attach it to a letter of comments drawn up in the framework of its administrative control of the questure accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u312	The report of the Court of Auditors is public, and since 2013 it has certified the accounts of the National Assembly. These methods of control go far beyond the ability to make observations that you propose. Unfavorable opinion on this amendment, which I think is largely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u313	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u314	There is confusion between the various tasks of the Court of Auditors. The certification of the accounts is separate from the administrative control of the accounts. We are talking about expenditure control. I would point out, Mr President, that the Court of Auditors does not carry out an expediency check on expenditure. I would point out that such a review would be tantamount to giving officials the opportunity to give an opinion on the decisions taken by the Quaestors. This issue does not seem to be addressed in the amendment. However, I understand that in the working groups on reforms for a new National Assembly, the President would consider using the services of the Court of Auditors, but I do not want to speak for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u315	I confirm to you, Mr Aubert, that the question of the audit of the accounts of the National Assembly by the Court of Auditors is on the agenda; But there is no need to reform the regulation for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u316	I have two amendments, Nos 36 and 41, which can be presented together. On Amendment No 36, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to introduce both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u317	There are certainly few MPs who read the writer and philosopher Annie Leclerc, especially her 1974 work, Woman's Word, which sought to rehabilitate what was previously regarded as feminine and negative: to take care of oneself, his body and his home, to educate a child. Do you think that parliamentarians or the media can still be shocked by the fact that MPs, in Argentina, Australia, or Iceland, are breastfeeding their children in public sittings? I don't think so. That's absurd. Taking care, feeding, educating a child is a natural act. In this regard, how can we imagine that the National Assembly does not yet have a crèche or a day-care centre, both for deputies and for collaborators or civil servants? Let us not forget that such a mechanism will help to promote parity between women and men. It should also be pointed out, since some seem to ignore it, that the Senate has a childcare centre, the Council of Europe, and a crèche. Even large companies have understood the value of making such structures available to their employees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is necessary to establish a crèche in the National Assembly. Future children and all those concerned thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u318	That is not within the scope of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u319	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u320	You are aware that the College of Quaestors has asked for a review of the need for a crèche in our premises. It is therefore necessary to wait for the results of the study.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u321	When the kids become adults?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u322	Can you listen to me, at least if you're interested in the answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u323	We're not in school, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u324	I would add that in 1988 this question had already been asked. The study that had been carried out showed that the demand in our assembly was not sufficient for the creation of such a structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u325	It's been thirty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u326	It was then decided to set up a childcare allowance to enable everyone to have his or her children cared for according to the terms of his or her choice. At the end of the Fourteenth Parliament, seventeen deputies were entitled to this allowance, four of whom were living in Paris, as well as 186 collaborators, of whom forty-six lived in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u327	What about the Assembly staff?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u328	The term "collaborator" also includes Assembly staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u329	You didn't study the matter, that's all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u330	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u331	The idea may be interesting, but it seems very Parisian in inspiration. Living in the Vaucluse, I suppose I would benefit from rates in the TGV to bring my children to Paris...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u332	It's free for the younger ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u333	...and entrust them to the Assembly's guard station. If this were not the case, provincial members would not have access to this service. I therefore understand the system that was chosen in 1988, since it helps to avoid discrimination between members of the French Parliament and those who live far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u334	We need a crèche in every district!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u335	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u336	You will not have escaped that the physiognomy of the National Assembly has changed – and it is happy –: more women and young people. And we're not at the end of the road. We need our democracy to adapt to these new realities, in particular by taking into account a concern which concerns not only Members but the whole of society, namely the link between family and working life. In this area, we have a lot, a lot of work. We plead for a public early childhood care service for everyone. With regard to Members, and those who have a particular political life, I do not know how to say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u337	Dense?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u338	...difficult – when you work until an hour in the morning and work on the weekend – it's complicated. If we want people who do politics not only to be those who do not have family responsibilities, then we must give ourselves the means to do so. We want a stop-garden to respond, in particular, to situations in which it is not possible to find a guard solution – this is not only a financial question – unforeseen situations in which troubleshooting by a guard station would be welcome. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is staggering that with the representative money order fee, you can buy a suit at 2000 euros, but not pay a babysitter! I would like to ask our assembly: this question must be part of our rules. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group.]] On the other hand, I regret that the debates that you have initiated, Mr President, are sausageed. There is no overall vision and debate on the necessary reform of democratic life. This is the heart of the problem today: the rights of the opposition, the organisation of our assembly, and the times of democratic life deserve better than a debate put on the agenda because of a problem at the questure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u339	I put to the vote Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u340	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u341	This amendment proposes two things: the first part may seem innocent, but it is not completely innocent. It is said that all catering services of the National Assembly must be managed by the restaurant management association of the National Assembly. I am sure that many colleagues in this House think that this association manages all the catering services. Well, no! For example, journalists' drinks are the subject of a public service delegation, as is the cafeteria on 101 rue de l'Université. Given that the finances of the restaurant management association are not always fixed, but that the two public service delegations are, by definition, profitable, it may be appropriate to manage these structures in the association. That is what the first part of the amendment provides for. The second part of the amendment sets out an objective that we could set ourselves collectively: to propose for sale in these catering services, at least half, of the products from organic farming. I myself have proposed that, as far as beer is concerned, we can move on to organic products. This is my little battle, the stone I bring to the building. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Today, only 15 to 20 per cent of what is served in the National Assembly comes from organic farming. When we know that we are imposing this 50% target on many administrations or collective restorations, it may be interesting that we set an example. I think we have the means to do so, in more than one way. So here's a common sense amendment on the restaurant management association of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u343	Your idea seems very interesting to me, Mr Bernalicis, but it has absolutely no place in this evening's debate or in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u344	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u345	As you may know, since this has been relayed by the press, a number of non-attached Members have tried to form a group from the beginning of the summer, not necessarily because we all have the same political line, but because we all have the concern to work seriously to defend the ideas of the French we represent. It must be recognized that, as non-registrants, we do not have the same rights as others. So I once again wondered what the term "political affinities" meant. Of course, it was the word "political" that caught my attention. From an etymological point of view, it comes from the polished Greeks, which means "city", and from the suffix -ikos, used to form the adjectives, which gave -ic, in French. In other words, politics is what concerns the citizen. However, it seems to me that those who have written and, if I may say, practiced this article have an idea of politics far removed from that meaning. Buried in a little too much ideology, they confuse "political family" with "political affinity". Our political affinity is the love of France and of freedoms, of which our country is the symbol, and first and foremost of which is freedom of expression, which for the time being is not granted to us under the same conditions as to other Members. That is, you will tell me, the principle of groups. Well, I don't think that's normal. When we look at the multitude of political sensitivities that can stir up a party or a group, we find some similarities with what happens in non-registrants. We are denied the right to form a group on the grounds that we are not large enough to get along or on the grounds that our group would be thematic or technical and not political. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] All of you who claim to carry modernity in this House, surprise us! Dare to transform your old way of doing politics, and give us the opportunity to form thematic groups!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u347	Unfavorable opinion. The committee reminds you that there have been, and may still be, purely technical groups in this House. Between 1993 and 1997, the Republic and Freedom Group brought together members of the left, centre and right, members of small formations, who had initially not registered, and had managed to form a group. As I have indicated to you, nothing prevents you from doing so today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u348	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u349	You don't understand, Madam rapporteur, or you pretend you don't understand. Of course, if we are prevented, because we cannot make a group if we do not cross the threshold of fifteen Members. The Republic and Freedom Group had more than 15 members. It is the threshold of fifteen Members that prevents us from forming a group, and that is why we are proposing to lower it to ten Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u350	That is not what the amendment calls for!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u351	You wouldn't have to know who it is. The problem is not here. It lies only in the existence of a threshold. Don't pretend you don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u352	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u353	We have often been hostile to lowering the threshold. In an assembly of 577 deputies, do we imagine that there could be fifty-seven groups? When we see what is becoming, under the current Rules of Procedure, a general discussion or explanations of vote, we may be afraid that the formation of sub-groups will only be able to overwhelm the debate and undermine a good democracy. [[Protests by a few non-attached Members]] At some point, a threshold must be defined to allow for political consolidation. I recognize that being a non-attached Member is complicated: at the same time, fellow non-attached Members, you have the same rights as any other Member. But if: you have the right to join a group. It happens that you do not, but it results from a choice on your part. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] In the context of parliamentary work, particularly in the context of questions to the Government, I agree that your situation is more complicated than that of registrants, but we cannot take the risk of burdening the entire parliamentary process to improve the situation of a dozen deputies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u354	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u355	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u356	Mr Chenu, you spoke violently to the rapporteur, accusing her of not understanding you and of not answering you. She answered you very clearly. Where is your amendment referring to a threshold?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u357	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u358	You have not stopped talking about a threshold, but the word does not even appear in the amendment. The answer that was given to you, as in the previous one, relates precisely to your request. You drape in a will of...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u359	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u360	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We never understood anything! That is the problem: you are the only ones to understand, and no one understands you! That is why we reject your amendments and will continue to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u361	Mrs Ménard, I cannot let it be said that you would have been refused to set up a group on the grounds that it would not have been formed on the basis of a political affinity. If an application had been made to create a group of fifteen or more Members, it would have been immediately approved, as would any such application. I would point out that under the Rules of Procedure, only the number of Members is important when it comes to forming a group. There is therefore no need to change it in order to be able to form groups by thematic or technical affinities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u362	I have before me two amendments, Nos 85 and 2, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u363	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u364	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u365	Colleagues, I come out of my thinking about non-attached Members. I will come back to this by defending the following amendments. Rule 19 of our Rules of Procedure, which sets out the conditions for the formation of a political group, has been regularly revised in order to lower the threshold for Members. There are seven members of the National Front. I have little interest in helping them, since they are my main opponents in the fourth constituency of the Vaucluse, but in the name of democratic logic, I consider that a movement with such an audience should be able to benefit from a group in the National Assembly. The La République en marche group would honour itself by offering the National Front this opportunity that the socialists offered to their ecological friends under the previous legislature. Among the non-attached, we are, so to speak, seven localist deputies. We could thus form a group on a clear basis. I therefore propose that the Assembly should protect the maintenance of the two-round single-member ballot by providing political movements with a real capacity for representation in the Assembly. Lowering that threshold would be the honor of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u366	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u367	Unfavorable opinion. As our colleague Philippe Latomb pointed out, I can read, but this is clearly not the case with Mr Chenu. We have now come to Amendments Nos 85 and 2, which refer to the thresholds for the formation of groups. I am desperate for amendments to this circumstantial point to be tabled. How can we consider that the number of Members required to form a group depends on such an election or vote? Our institutions are much better than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u368	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u369	Madam rapporteur, things are clear and it is very good for you to say so! By refusing to lower the threshold of fifteen deputies, you deny the National Front's elected representatives the possibility of creating a group. You just said it. You have to believe you're afraid of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u370	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u371	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Don't worry, we're not the bad guys in the house. In any event, you are expressing a very clear view before the national representative and the French: you do not want Members of Parliament who have millions of voters behind them to be able to form a group. You have to assume it. Maybe you're already doing it, and that's very good. Thank you for your frankness!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u372	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u373	As usual, the National Front is asking good questions, to which it provides bad answers. Mr Chenu, I do not agree with your logic that the threshold for forming a group should be lowered to seven Members. Otherwise, on the day when there are only two non-attached members, a group of two would have to be set up in order to ensure that they have the same rights as those of 380. So I'm not buying your argument. On the other hand, you might argue that when a political party gathers millions of votes, it should be able to form a group in the National Assembly, regardless of the number of deputies at its disposal. That's a reasoning I could admit. Since millions of French people support the National Front – for which I cannot be suspected of sympathy, given our relations in the Vaucluse – its representation in this forum poses a democratic problem. The number of Members is not the only factor to consider. Collectively, in view of the votes cast on Members, they do not all have the same weight. This is a real subject of political representation, which may need to be treated in a calm manner, avoiding caricatures and anathema.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u374	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u375	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Mr Aubert, there is a simple solution to ensure that those who weigh in the opinion are better represented in the Assembly: a proportion must be included in the vote. We are not going to lower the thresholds in terms of parliamentary life and electoral results. The real question that you are asking, that of the various political currents and the proportional one, is not the one that we are dealing with tonight, but we will have to deal with it at some point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u376	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u377	The amendment is consistent. Non-attached Members should not be considered second-tier Members. Although those of the majority were elected for many reasons because they were supported by Emmanuel Macron, there are also constituencies where voters knowingly chose to elect deputies who did not belong to any political group. This choice of the French cannot be put in the closet, as if their vote was deviant and irrelevant. To make the voice of the non-attached people heard, along with that of the other Members, is to make the voice of the French heard and to respect democracy even in the Chamber, which seems to me to be the least of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u378	Mr Louis Aliot has the floor to support Amendment No 50, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u379	I'm not going to repeat what I said. The amendment only seeks to bring the National Assembly's rules of procedure into line with those of the Senate. After our debate, will I go back to my constituency and explain that the members of the La République group on the move and a few others defend a different conception of representation in the Assembly and in the Senate? My constituents won't understand much. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] On the other hand, the fact that a department like mine and a political movement that represents millions of votes are not represented by the regulatory expression of a group in the Assembly will be devastating for you. Let's wait for the results of the next election!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u380	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u381	The millions of voters you are talking about are represented by you, Mr. Member of Parliament, as well as by other Members of Parliament. You have the right of expression in the Chamber, as we see tonight. You have tabled amendments. You're speaking in committee. You therefore have the floor, but I am sorry for you: there are not enough of you to form a political group in the National Assembly. So get together and regroup!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u382	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u383	In fact, we are victims of a double sentence because, as you say, Mr Fesneau, of a method of voting which is not particularly democratic, and then, when we are elected, because of the will of the majority, which prevents us from coming together by political affinities. On the other hand, Mr Aubert, our proposals do not only tend to lower the threshold for the formation of a group. We also propose to layer our rules over that of the Senate. As such, we are imaginative. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] As we discuss a text on democracy, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the common organization of our work, the majority will succeed in not adopting any amendments from any group, other than its own. This is an interesting concept of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u384	I have before me two amendments, Nos 20 and 12, which can be presented together. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u385	By listening to our debates, I sometimes question myself. Indeed, some comments are quite distant from the text we are debating. We have already referred to the real and only question that arises today regarding our settlement: the definition of minority groups and opposition groups is imperfect. This has been recognised on all the benches of this House. We therefore wish, by this amendment, which is very close to the heart of the resolution we are considering, to supplement Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure with a more precise definition, which would avoid any misuse of the text, as is sometimes the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u386	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u387	It seems to me, for my part, that we are far from the text we are dealing with tonight. If the question of the definition of an opposition group or minority group is to be asked, this should take place within the working groups that you have set up, Mr. Chairman, one of which deals specifically with the legislative procedure and the rights of the opposition. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u388	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u389	We had this debate in committee. The argument of referring the debate to the work of the working groups cannot, of course, satisfy us. We are going to draft a contribution based on these two amendments, which are distinguished by the fact that one is of a more substantial nature, while the other is broader in scope. We hope, Mr President, that this contribution, of which you are one of the authors, together with other colleagues who have co-signed it – Mr Gosselin recalled earlier that we are dealing here with a substantive subject – can lead to a consideration of these definitions. This will, I insist, help to prevent procedural misappropriation in this House and to ensure that democracy will live even better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u390	Does that mean that you are withdrawing your amendments, Mrs Karamanli?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u391	No, we maintain them, because it is important that there be a vote on them, but we are already contributing in writing to the groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u392	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u393	Article 51-1 of our Constitution states: "The rules of procedure of each assembly shall determine the rights of the parliamentary groups constituted within it. It recognises specific rights for the opposition groups of the assembly concerned as well as for minority groups. Our Constitution does not, therefore, establish a principled ban on membership in different groups. The penultimate paragraph of Article 19 of our Rules of Procedure encourages the formation of political groups in the light of partisan coherence. Do the fundamental differences that we have in these texts depend mainly on a map, on the settlement of a contribution or on our mission to represent our land or the nation? Should we wait for lobbyists to push us to transcend partisan quarrels? Isn't it better to organize ourselves on the basis of key ideas that drive us in the service of the national interest and the common good? I think we should allow these multiple integrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u394	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u395	Article 19, paragraph 7, provides that "Members who do not belong to any group may be similar to a group of their choice...". We believe that Members who do not belong to any group, by definition, are non-attached members. We therefore wish them to be considered as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u396	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u398	This is contrary to the very spirit of the apparent, therefore unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u399	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u400	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] When I see that the amendments we are presenting are rejected, not to say ignored, I cannot help but think that, in the end, for everything to change, nothing must change. Yes, there are more women in the Chamber, new faces have appeared, a new party has shaken for a time the former conductors of the Doxa: a good kick, in short, on the political class. But the lift, however successful it may be, does not erase age. When I see that, in the end, old partisan habits persist, that in the end, all this is only a matter of power, whereas we should act in the service of the French, when I hear our colleagues in the majority refusing amendments of common sense – in committee, for example, on agriculture – on the grounds that the text is not carried by one of their own, I find that these practices are indeed old and hypocritical. Personally, I am tired of the real false changes that insult our intelligence and ideals, and whose authors mock the French. We are here for France, for the French, for things to change, for a better world. But the worm is in the apple, even before the debate begins: the well-organised system of the majority and the good-thinkers – or, failing that, tolerated dissidents, because the democratic illusion should not be too blatant – gives the change. To break with old habits, for your credibility too, let's finally start tonight to make politics differently. We are what you miss, we are the voice of the French who don't recognize themselves in you! Hear us to listen to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u402	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] We hear you tirelessly repeating the same things. My opinion will therefore be untiringly the same – unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u403	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u404	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] Madam Chair of the Law Commission, but what a contempt for national representation! What a morgue! What a way to view the debate! You spend your time telling us that all the amendments will be rejected. As soon as the debate began, you indicated that no amendments would be accepted. Do you realize your conception of the debate? You are scorning a parliamentarian who explains to you that we are your opposition, that in any democracy there is a need for it, and that it must be considered. However, you are doing exactly the opposite, as you are doing the opposite of what you have said throughout your electoral campaign to your voters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u405	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u406	I must admit that the behaviour of the Republic in motion, on this text, is revealing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u407	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u408	You spoke to us at the beginning of the political balance, before pointing out the need for representation through the election, but this does not evacuate the issue in any way. Is every member of Parliament a member of the nation? Yes or no? To you, apparently, there are multi-speed MPs. During the hearings we held this morning on the finance bill, university professors told us in substance that public policies denied peripheral France and existed only for those included. I know that for thirty years my territory of Vaucluse has been waiting for basic investments; But he votes badly, so the state doesn't want it. You are facing your contradictions and scandals. Also, accept at least that non-registered persons are present in the decision-making process that affects them. Make a sign to the unregistered!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u409	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u410	The establishment of special committees depending on the decision of the group or committee chairmen should be legitimately brought to the attention of non-attached Members. That the establishment of such a committee is proposed only for the attention of the members of the groups is illegitimate. It is essential, particularly with regard to matters relating to changes in our society – such as matters relating to the family, respect for the life from its beginning to its natural term – that all Members, regardless of their status, be able to know whether their colleagues from the majority or the opposition have brought to Parliament's attention a request for the establishment of a special committee. It would also be legitimate if, by mutual agreement, each unregistered Member could bring to the attention of the chairman of his committee a request for follow-up by that ad hoc committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u411	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u412	The opinion is unfavourable, as the notification is symmetrical with the right of opposition. There is no point in notifying non-attached Members of the decision, since they cannot object to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u413	I have before me two amendments, Nos 9 and 93, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u414	The purpose of this amendment is to improve the representation of Members who are not on the special committees of our Assembly. Indeed, given the central role these committees play in reviewing many bills, our assembly must ensure a balanced representation of the different political sensitivities in each of these committees. It would be unacceptable for the deputies of the National Front to be excluded from the work of the committees responsible for examining draft laws on immigration, economics and social affairs. This would, in a way, mean that these deputies would be excluded from part of the procedure for drafting legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the modernization of the functioning of the National Assembly requires a better representation of these special committees. The equal treatment of Members must move from fiction to reality. That is why I ask you to increase the number of non-attached Members of a special committee to three.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u415	Mr Chenu, is Amendment No 93 being defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u416	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u417	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u418	Given the current number of non-attached MPs, this would result in an over-representation of non-attached MPs, compared to the number of MPs in a group. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u419	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u420	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u421	I have before me two amendments, Nos 66 and 67, which can be presented together. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u422	They're being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u423	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u424	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Since the beginning of the legislature, you have shown the will to pass forcefully, step by step, on a large number of texts, which are nevertheless important to our fellow citizens. The expedited procedure, even beyond the bill enabling the Government to make orders, has been used on numerous occasions, which prevents MPs from exercising their right of amendment. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ensure that, when the Assembly meets, the Standing Committees cannot meet to discuss a text. This would allow Members to exercise their basic parliamentary rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u426	You are raising a real question, which is difficult to solve given the density of our work. I think we need to look at it as part of the organisation of our parliamentary work on a weekly, monthly, year-wide basis. It is a reflection to have, but not in the present context; the opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u427	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u428	[[Smile]] That's a bad answer to a good question! Indeed, the very meaning of a regulation is to lay down common rules to avoid the absence of a solution. Otherwise, there is no point in voting on a regulation. We are not in a position to properly organize parliamentary shuttles. As you know, Parliament does not have a hand in this. It is the Government that sets the pace of the projects and decides on the temporality of their consideration. Parliament must be allowed to assume the role entrusted to it by the Constitution and to do so fully and knowingly. In fact, that is not possible, and this amendment makes it possible to do so. If you agree, you have to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u429	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u430	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We find it very difficult to organize our work, because there are many things to study, committees, hearings and work. Do you seriously think that what we can't do at 577, we will be able to do better than 400 Members?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u431	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u432	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u433	The Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament informed me that the debate on the motion for a resolution was continued tomorrow afternoon and in the evening, after reading the text of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. Accordingly, further discussion was postponed to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-10-O1006.u434	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on strengthening internal security and combating terrorism; Further discussion of the motion for a resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The meeting is adjourned.
