ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on student guidance and success (No. 391, 446).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Mr President, and Mr rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party and on the occasion of this general discussion, allow me first of all to situate this balanced, fair and pragmatic text. This student orientation and success bill is the second legislative step in the Student Plan, after the first appropriation required for the implementation of the Student Plan has been voted. Originally, there is our legislative proposal, structured around two lines of strength. The first was student life. As we know, improving student life means improving student success. This text makes it possible to simplify access to social security that will no longer fluctuate, to increase the means dedicated to the health, sports practice and cultural development of students, and also to increase their purchasing power by abolishing the contribution to the Student Social Security. The second line of strength that we defended during the election campaign is the orientation of high school students, which must begin with better information, more transparent and wider, which will inform them about the success rates, the job opportunities and also the expectations, i.e. the skills necessary for success in each field. Thus, each high school student will be able to choose his or her orientation in an enlightened way. This choice we have taken before the voters, we are defending it today before the national representation. We want to enable every bachelor to succeed in higher education, to obtain a diploma and to be able to emancipate intellectually and through employment. This project, the Student Plan is implementing it and the bill is an essential component of it. And then we experienced the difficult re-entry 2017, with the malfunctions of APB – Post-bac admission – too many draw lots and then the challenge of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL. I read and heard some unacceptable comments earlier. For some, a few draws by lot, it would be "tolerable" or our reform could "be postponed for a few years". But no, it's not acceptable! Letting such unjust situations continue would be like abandoning our youth. But we want to act for her. Thanks to the quality of the consultation conducted by your teams, the minister, and by our partners in the world of education, the project has been enriched, leads have been proposed, ideas have been deepened and they are reflected in this text. This brings major improvements in the journey of young bachelors to the higher level, thanks to three essential points. In the first place, he removes the draw by lot. As I said, there is no more unfair or ineffective process to affect young people in training. The text puts an end to the dogmatic absurdity of drawing by lot and that is a good thing. Secondly, it reaffirms that every bachelor can access higher education, which is fundamental. To improve this access, the new Parcoursup platform will enable better informed, anticipated and accompanied orientation, thanks to the participation of high school teachers, but also thanks to the advice of the higher education professionals on the wishes that have been formulated. Better information, orientation and assignment will allow our bachelors to start their graduate studies with a much better chance of success. Thirdly, the bill sets a goal for higher education to promote the success of all students. For us, it is not enough to enter the licence, we must succeed. The failure rate is now 60% licensed. If the finding is overwhelming, evil is not inevitable. We want to act and we can do it. To this end, the draft law establishes innovative educational mechanisms and personalized training pathways to follow, accompany, reorient and adapt teaching and methods to their needs. For our young people as well as for our country, we want to raise the level of qualification. These new allocation and accompanying tools will put an end to the massive failure in licensing, which we are seeing today. End of the draw, better orientation, adapted training course: these are the main new features of this text. Of course, it is accompanied by considerable financial resources, which will allow us to create places in the fields of tension, to accompany each student and to recognize the pedagogical commitment of the teachers. Through this text, we transform the transition from secondary to higher. Our political choice, embodied in both the Student Plan and this bill, will certainly take time to change the reality. We are lucid and realistic. We don't sell dreams. The measures we are defending are of common sense. They are right, they are a source of progress, and we will follow them closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u4	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u5	Our goal is clear: to improve student success to enable our youth to emancipate themselves through access to work and knowledge. We approach this debate with envy and responsibility, in listening and mutual respect,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u6	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] ... not doubting that we are all looking for the best for our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u8	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u9	Minister, rapporteur, you are introducing a bill on student orientation and success. Nice title, nice intention, which requires several observations from us. The Republican Group believes that the challenge of higher education and research must be met by an act II of autonomy. We believe that the movement of profound reform initiated between 2007 and 2012 at the initiative of Nicolas Sarkozy and Valérie Pécresse needs to be continued and deepened, while it has partly been interrupted and, in some respects, even called into question, at the very moment when abroad, at least in many countries, events were accelerating. As we all know, what is being done is to maintain France as the first university division. In our view, several principles should guide any reform of higher education, first and foremost trust. I want to talk about the trust in academics, which is essential to move to Act II of university autonomy, which we call for. In the light of this principle, we believe that universities, which are truly autonomous, must have the right and freedom to determine the conditions for access to the training they provide. We believe that denial and selection must be ended by failure. Yes, by failure: the numbers are striking, almost too much. The bachelor's success rate in three years is barely 30% with flagrant differences according to the bachelor's degrees obtained. It is 34.7% for the general baccalaureate, 9.2% for the technological baccalaureate and 3.7% for the professional baccalaureate. How can we remain insensitive to this finding? Only one third of university students actually chose this field. The others, the vast majority, find themselves there "for lack of better" because they have not been admitted to a higher technician section, a university institute of technology or a preparatory class for large schools. For many, failure is therefore foreseeable in the first year. What a waste! What a huge human waste! In view of the need to entrust higher education institutions – all higher education institutions – with the ability to freely organise their admission procedure, your bill, the first of the quinquennium devoted to higher education, seems to us a missed opportunity. You miss this historic opportunity mainly for two reasons. The first is that in reality, a large majority of students in higher education are already studying in selective fields – but this has not triggered new May 68. A significant part of higher education, including public education, is selective: preparatory classes for large schools, IUT, higher technician sections, large establishments, small, medium-sized, large schools and even universities for certain bachelor's courses, so much so that 56 per cent of bachelor's degrees registered in 2016-2017 have integrated a selective sector. The second reason why it seems to us that you are missing a historic opportunity is that, without precedent, there is a real evolution of French public opinion, which shows itself massively – much more than in the past, according to several opinion polls – in favour of the introduction of a form of selection. According to a recent IPSOS poll published in L'Obs, 66% of French people favour a form of selection. The population as a whole is in this position, including those aged 16 to 24, the first to be affected by the measure, who approve it at 65%, compared with 43% 10 years ago. Everything happens as if the French had understood that selection could rhyme, and often rhyme, with quality. The timid "prerequisites" initially envisaged and become since the "anticipated" euphemisms do not meet this expectation, far from it. Neither the first word nor the second word appear in the text of the bill. At most, the term "anticipated" is found in the explanatory memorandum for the national pre-registration procedure, which will be proposed throughout the terminal year. For a very short time, the national representation has known a little more about the national framework within which the said provisions must be inserted, thanks to a text which I have read and which I have found to be very general, because, if it contains some nice formulas, it lacks in many respects consistency. We have little confidence in the blurring of what might be expected, nor in the fact that section 1 of the bill is similar to a gas plant. We are not sure – that is the least we can say – that the complex system and a piece of bureaucracy that you are proposing will be able to provide real solutions to the problems of orientation. We are not convinced that the "yes if" can work, as soon as the next academic year, and we regret that we did not get a satisfactory answer as to the "yes, despite everything." To be quite sincere, we are not more convinced by the rules that you described as "clear and fair" in the event that there are no places available to candidates. That is why we believe that the bill you are introducing today is a missed opportunity. It is a fact: all our lives are marked by processes of choice, selection. Why, then, have to this point shunned, obscured the debate, stifled the words of "free choice" by the universities of those who can claim access to training and have real chances of success and professional development? Why refuse to set up any form, even any beginning of selection? Is it realistic to close your eyes hoping that the wind of international competition will spare the French universities? In the Cultural Affairs Committee, the minister, I said, "Can do better." This is always, little or no, our position: we remain dubious and have difficulty adhering to a chronology that does not seem to us to be the most rational – that of presenting this text according to the accelerated procedure, in order to respond to an emergency. We understand that in 2018 there will be a major reform of the high school and the baccalaureate, which will certainly be accompanied by a major reform of apprenticeship and vocational training. We therefore find it difficult to adhere to an approach of reforming access to higher education without having first laid the foundations for a real reform of the high school and the baccalaureate. As we said in committee, we agree with the observation that the drawing of lots is terribly unfair, arbitrary and cruel, and that the de facto discrediting of the APB platform cannot remain unanswered. Then came the CNIL injunction – all this has already been clarified. However, you are not limited to abrogation of the draw or recasting of the APB platform. You are building a whole new system and we remain very cautious about the practical feasibility and operational nature of the measures you propose. With regard to the new platform that the national representation is beginning to see – even if we do not yet know everything that is envisaged – we strongly fear that the new procedures will lead to queues and a clear extension of deadlines, which will lead to additional stress at the time of the preparation of the baccalaureate for high school students and their families, that is, in a period of tension and strategic calculations on the right choices to be made. It is difficult, I repeat, and even if it has already been said, to really understand why you refuse to prioritize vows: how would this refusal necessarily mean progress and greater ease for future bachelors and their families? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will conclude by stressing that we are approaching this parliamentary debate in an optimistic and offensive spirit. Our amendments did not please you and were not accepted, but we wish, because we love university, to make our contribution to the construction of a university of excellence. We know that this is a major issue for high school students and their families and we hope that you will give loving attention and attentive attention to our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u10	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Commission, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Government Student Plan, the cornerstone of which is this bill, is finally meeting the challenge of the success of our youth, at this pivotal moment in the transition from secondary to higher education. Finally, it takes note of student demography, which is so badly anticipated, and aims to compensate for the social and cultural inequalities between pupils and families through better information and guidance. Through an active orientation of high school students, it also aims to put an end to the shameful selection through failure – a French specialty – by combining the analysis of the knowledge and skills of high school students with a personal and professional project. It will allow students to follow a personalized path in which the acquisition of knowledge must be accompanied by that of skills, while improving their living conditions, including their access to care. It guarantees all those who wish to be able to take university studies, but also transforms our students into actors in their studies: students informed about the content of the training they choose as well as about its opportunities. The MODEM Group shares these objectives and welcomes the willingness of our Minister to carry out this courageous reform, including the university professor whom I am aware of the necessity on a daily basis. We will be careful to ensure that this bill remains fully aligned with the philosophy of the announced plan. I have already been able to measure on the ground the strengthening of the dialogue between the actors in secondary and higher education, launched and led by our president: this is a great first, which was very necessary. The new national pre-registration procedure introduced in Article 1, known as "Parcoursup", is thus in the right direction. It is imperative that this new procedure avoid the pitfalls of the previous one – APB – which led to this unbearable draw. Courseup must provide candidates with a clear view of the characteristics of targeted training, its objectives and its success and integration rates. We will be particularly vigilant about the simplification and transparency of the new process. With regard to transparency, the majority of the actors involved in the bill noted the injustice of the previous arrangement for the allocation of places in our higher education institutions. Subject to the drawing of lots, the candidates were also deprived of any justification for the decision. Finally, it is an opportunity to fully apply the principle of transparency in the decisions of the administration: we must seize it, in order to achieve a fairer and, above all, more understandable system. Another aspect which we believe is crucial to the success of the transition from secondary to higher education is the continuity of the process of accompaniment of young people, by their teachers in secondary education and by the professionals of guidance, at the level of high school and higher education. The accompanying devices at Parcoursup cannot be off the ground: they must be part of a logic of journey, of drawing up a project. Guidance is a long process and adult actors from guidance to guidance need to work together to improve their knowledge of the education sectors, in order to provide young people with fairer but more coherent information. We will also pay close attention, in the implementation, to the work of the academic authority in terms of the percentage of places reserved for technological and professional bachelors in the sections of senior technician leading to a certificate of higher technician, as well as in the university institutes of technology. This provision must now be applied more effectively than in the past, in order to make STS, BTS and IUT their primary purpose of training senior technicians and engineering assistants who are so much needed in the world of work. Another highlight of this reform is student health. We can only congratulate ourselves on the desire to put an end to the drifts of student social security – another French exception, which has been the subject of multiple, recurring and known failures. Access to care will be facilitated through the adoption of the general scheme. However, as students are also a very specific audience, with problems that are no less so, the aspects relating to pedagogy and prevention with regard to the functioning of the social system deserve a tailored response, with in particular the best possible coordination of the stakeholders. We welcome the adoption by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education of our amendment to introduce educational measures relating to the social system that meet the needs of students, new insured persons who must be autonomous beneficiaries. We also want – and this is the second amendment I want to mention – that all the stakeholders in prevention actions for students can coordinate their actions on the ground to improve efficiency and respond to the specific challenges of this particular population, the student population. If the mutual students did not shine through their management, they must at least be recognized with a field experience and peer-to-peer approach in the field of prevention. This peer representation in the health care system is important for students to recognize themselves. This is why MODEM, like other groups in this assembly, is calling for student representation on the board of the National Health Insurance Fund, in the same way as other social insurance providers. Another major axis of the reform, in a logic of simplification and efficiency: the fusion into a single contribution, which will be due only by non-students, of the various contributions "student life" will make the system more readable and more coherent around the door that the regional centres of academic and academic works – CROUS – will form at the regional level and, beyond that, around all the actors competent in this field, who will be potential beneficiaries and will participate in a joint programming of the so-called "student life" actions. A word, finally, about two other indisputable contributions of the text. The first is the extension of the "best bachelor's degree" scheme to all public education courses, which will benefit, in particular, the best bachelors in the vocational and technological fields. The second contribution is the possibility of a caesure, which can be set up in a thoughtful and agreed manner and whose object must be objectified. This break, lasting a maximum of 12 months, is an undeniable step forward both for the professionalisation of students and for their development, but also to allow them a stay abroad, and therefore an international experience. As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is therefore in favour of this text, so that access to higher education is less unfair and, above all, much more effective. It wishes to contribute to enriching this text, or even to clarify it, so that finally the figure of 30% failure in the first year of the licence, or even 70% in certain scientific courses, is no longer the sad reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u12	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the IUD Group, Mr Agir and Mr Indépendants, are calling for an ambitious and proactive policy on the teaching of knowledge and the quality of research in all fields. The quality of the training of our students is a fundamental issue, the cornerstone of the long journey of individual and collective perspectives offered by higher education: the development of personal projects and, consequently, the strengthening of the assets of our country. This training is first and foremost an issue of economic competitiveness. To get our country out of the rut in a sustainable way and to put an end to the weak growth that we have been unable to overcome for too long, we must innovate and reinvent ourselves. This requires an increase in the resources allocated to public and private research, but also a special effort devoted to the quality of the training of our students. It is in skills and versatility that we will find the sources of tomorrow's growth and success. The excellence of our universities is the sine qua non that will enable our country to regain a sustainable and sustainable path to growth. Our universities must therefore be recognized and attractive centres of teaching and research. They are a decisive relay of influence and radiation. French students who go abroad as part of their training are, like the foreign students our universities host, the best ambassadors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u15	Furthermore, we are very committed to the emancipatory dimension of the university and, in general, to equal access to higher education. As with the school, the university is the foundation of our republican pact and must make it possible for all students to succeed, regardless of their parents' social background or resources. In particular, it must reward the most deserving students, and it is one of the merits of your bill, Madam Minister, to extend the system of priority access for the best bachelors to all higher education courses, including selective ones. More than that, higher education is the perfect place for learning critical thinking and the confrontation of ideas. It is one of the training frameworks for the citizens of tomorrow, autonomous and open to the world. However, we are well aware that our universities are in great need of reform. Due to the upward demographic curve for several decades and the overall increase in the level of education, the number of students wishing to pursue higher education has increased massively in recent years and our old university model has not been able to adapt to it. For 2016-17, there were 2.6 million enrollments in France as a whole. If current trends in guidance and further education persist, there could be some 2.9 million students in higher education by 2025. It is therefore urgent to anticipate this massive influx while maintaining our quality requirements. We must act and empower universities to better accommodate this additional number of students, while at the same time providing them with good quality training. The bill we are looking at today responds first of all to one need: to avoid reviving the major dysfunctions of the 2017 academic year. The introduction of the draw to divide candidates, due to the excessive number of applications in some strained training courses, was an unfair and deeply demotivating measure for candidates. Moreover, the very functioning of the Post-Bas Admission platform, with the calculations and strategies it generated in the choice of vows, was far from satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u17	Our fellow citizens have largely echoed this with their representatives, astonished by a system in which their children's future was, so to speak, determined by an algorithm, without human eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u18	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u19	Following the decision of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, action was needed. We therefore welcome the abolition of the procedure for drawing lots. On the other hand, it was more than time to reflect with clarity on the conditions for the entry of new bachelors into higher education. Today, university selection is a failure. For a promotion of bachelors who entered higher education in 2009, the completion rate in three years is only 28%. There is therefore an urgent need to reform and better orient high school students before they enter university and to support them more throughout their academic career, in order to promote their professional integration. I am personally opposed to the introduction of a general selection at the end of high school. This would not give the candidate a second chance, at an age when we are looking for ourselves and where we sometimes need time to mature our professional project. The solution you propose has the advantage of pragmatism. By maintaining the principle of the candidate's freedom of choice, you do not close any doors to our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u21	However, the introduction of wait times available on the new Parcoursup platform will provide additional guarantees as to the candidates' awareness of the difficulties of a particular sector. This is a logic of personalisation of the paths and accountability of the candidates, who will now be more involved in their success – we welcome it. Similarly, the possibility of following a personalized course, with pedagogical support or extended over four years, contributes to this customization logic. We also welcome the introduction of "guidance weeks" dedicated to informing future bachelors about higher education training. The bill provides that they are organized in consultation with universities, so that all candidates have access to all the information they need. We welcome this but will pay attention to its application, as the lack of coordination between high schools and universities is very damaging for the good orientation of high school students. We also welcome the abolition of the delegated management scheme for student mutuals and its reintegration into the general health insurance scheme. The recurrent dysfunctions of student mutuals, broken by several reports, made this inevitable. However, we will be vigilant to ensure that this integration into the general system does not result in a loss of the quality of access to care and prevention for students. It is also regrettable, six years from the Paris Olympic Games, that an effort has not been made to harmonise the arrangements for the further study of high-level sports students – I am referring to my amendment. We all know what an athlete's preparation life can involve as efforts, suffering and sacrifices, and how vital education is for young people whose sporting careers will be completed at the age of 30. Specific arrangements exist in many universities, but they vary greatly from one university to another and often represent an obstacle to enrolment. Harmonisation of these devices would have been welcome for our young athletes. Nor does the text take into account the special situation of overseas students or that of ultramarine students coming to study in Hexagon. In particular, we hope that the Government will pay favourable attention to the amendments made by our colleagues in the Pacific, as the institutional characteristics of those territories have not been taken into account in the text. I am thinking in particular of the missions of the CROUS since, as things stand, students of French Polynesia would be excluded from the provisions applicable to students of the Hexagone aimed at improving their daily lives, which leads to a breach of the principle of equal treatment and therefore equal opportunities. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] In conclusion, our group is kindly addressing the review of this bill and will look favourably at measures that contribute to putting the excellence and success of all students at the heart of our universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u23	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the democratisation of higher education has still not fulfilled its promise of equal opportunities. The strategies of circumvention, the default orientations, the disparity of information but also an unspoken hierarchy of training reinforce the inequalities from the moment of entry into higher education. More and more opaque, less and less controlled, the PDB platform has never been able to reverse this trend. The incredible generalization of the draw this year has accelerated a long-necessary reform. In a timely manner, this text focuses on the first cycle of higher education, often presented as the poor parent of the bachelor-master-doctoral course. The too many failures and worrying drop-outs that we continue to regret are mainly those experienced by students enrolled in the first cycle of university. Law after law, plan after plan, year after year, statistics do not move: in 2014, only three out of ten students graduated in three years and hardly more than four out of ten in four years. By their recurrence, these figures are sufficient to demonstrate the scale and urgency of the challenge. Similarly, it is time for the constant divergence of results between the general, technological and vocational fields to go beyond the stage of findings and half-measures to give rise to a university policy with appropriate means. The increase in the number of students is an opportunity for a country. It is also a requirement, which demands to be anticipated so as not to suffer the trend decline, over the past decade, of the nation's budget for each of its students. If the success of the university is not limited to budgetary and human resources, it cannot be ruled out with a back hand either. In the absence of sufficient reception capacity and additional resources for the new arrangements, the à la carte routes, the personalized support, the reinforced orientation will also run the risk of encountering an offer of training which is insufficient or inadequate for the profiles of the students, at the risk of seeing a proliferation of the fields under tension, the "yes if" and, ultimately, a generalisation of the selection. The situation of the University of La Réunion is eloquent in this respect. At less than 20%, the three-year success rate is ten points below the national average. Two figures, which are repeated from year to year, suffice to convince that these failures are mainly due to a shortage of places and, as a result, to a poor orientation: when they have to enrol in university, only 1% of professional bachelors pass in the second year; On the contrary, when they can register in BTS, almost 70% of them succeed. The creation of places in BTS and IUT did not follow the increase in the number of technological and professional bachelors. With less than ten channels, the IUT de La Réunion is undersized. Similarly, the 60 or so formations of BTS are completely saturated. Since 2012, an additional 100 places have been created each year, but barely half of the number one wishes are satisfied. The University of La Réunion has become the institution which, in France, hosts every year the most professional bachelors. The law of 2013 certainly provides for priority access by professional and technological bachelors to these trainings originally created, it should be recalled, for them. However, this provision has had a very limited effect because of the inadequate reception capacity in these sectors. For young people in Réunion, success in higher education will necessarily depend on increasing the number of places in BTS and IUT. From maritime to biodiversity, from the energy transition to the digital revolution, the fields of specialization are not lacking; employment prospects also, including in our regional environment. The text is also concerned with the living conditions of students, first of all with regard to health through the attachment to the general social security system. This first measure, which must improve access to the care of students, calls for others, as their health situation has deteriorated. Then there is the question of housing: it arises all the more acutely in Réunion since half of the students are scholarship holders and since with less than 1500 rooms, the CROUS can accommodate only a tiny minority of them. The conditions for the collection of the new contribution intended to renovate student life and to harmonize access to cultural and sports activities raise questions about the existence of a compensation or equalization mechanism to take account of the exemption to which scholarship students will benefit. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] Our challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is to create the conditions for democratising success in higher education and finally achieving the target of 50% of a senior-age group. It is in this movement of generosity that the confidence of students, and more generally of society, in the university will be restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u25	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u26	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we meet to examine the Student Orientation and Success Bill, which will provide the necessary legislative framework to ensure that the choices announced by the Government at the presentation of the Student Plan on October 30th will become a reality. First of all, I would like to point out that we are pleased that the finance bill for 2018 brings an additional €200 million to the higher education budget to support the implementation of this plan. The consultation that preceded the development of the Student Plan allowed us to converge on the widely shared idea that we must be able to offer each young person a realistic orientation and training path in relation to his or her personal project. Vice-President of a university until my election, I was able to measure the difficulties encountered by our breathless guidance system and leading some high school students to undergo their orientation, which often results in a failure from the very first steps in higher education. The APB platform had become an assignment platform and was never a guidance tool. The demographic surge has then put pressure on certain sectors, which have seen almost 50% increase in registrations in recent years, leading even to the drawing of lots, a scandal whose exit falls under political responsibility. I am therefore pleased that this bill proposes a new approach to direction that builds on new foundations and sets out new requirements that will be found in the new Routeup platform. This approach will allow each high school student to be included in a chosen, informed and co-built orientation approach, which is the first factor for the success of any course of training and vocational integration. I would like to take this rostrum to remind you that we will have to take this new approach by closely involving the secondary and senior staff, whether they are guidance specialists or teachers – all of whom I emphasize the great professionalism and dedication but who need this new framework to better serve the interests of our students. The question of the success of everyone in their training course is also very important. The success rates observed are disappointing, mainly in the first year of licensing, regardless of the course of origin of the bachelors. With a failure rate of more than 60% in the first year and far less than one in two students succeeding in obtaining their bachelor's degree in three years or even less in certain fields, the real question for any political leader is how to achieve more and better success in higher education. Minister, your project offers support based on the profile of the students that we believe is very relevant to their success. We will have an opportunity to come back to this when we consider Article 1. To offer additional pedagogical support to bachelors whose profile is in contrast to the expectations of the host training is a considerable progress which will engage through an educational contract the host institution and the student to the benefit of the latter's success. The text also proposes to modernise the framework for the social protection of students and to give each other the means to strengthen the measures for welcoming, supporting social, health, cultural and sporting students and students. This aspect of the text is important: while a chosen and co-built direction is a first success factor, access to health and quality of life are other determinants. Access to sport, culture and citizen investment are opportunities to acquire cross-cutting skills that allow students to enrich their profile, which is an additional asset in their preparation for vocational integration. The text also proposes to allow students to benefit from a year of caesure from the first cycle. This device allows you to leave the time necessary for the personal and professional project to mature, to discover other horizons, to acquire new skills, so many possibilities favoring the personalization of the journeys. We believe that this bill, together with the Student Plan, will enable all actors – high school students, students, families, high school and senior staff – to improve their mutual knowledge. In essence, we are making this bet: that all actors are working to restore our young people's confidence in the future. A famous athlete said: "One of the keys to success is self-confidence, one of the keys to self-confidence is preparation. This is what the approach will allow: students will be better accompanied in the choice of their orientation; students will be better accompanied in the success of their course of study and will regain confidence to better fit into a career path related to their personal project. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, please be assured, Madam Minister, of the support of our group to complete the review of this text and to make it the starting point of a new ambition given to our young student.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u27	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u28	During the previous quinquennium, Madam Minister, your predecessor had tried to remedy the endemic evil of our system, namely the massive failure of our higher education, whose financial and human cost is unbearable. But ideology took over and Thierry Mandon's minister, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, was right about this lucidity. On selection, the politically correct term of "recruitment" was preferred, and the democratization of education, a noble objective in any case, took with it all expectations of evolution. Your presidential candidate shared Thierry Mandon's foresight as he said that not everyone was made to go to university, recognizing that selection is a major topic for fragile audiences and that qualitative aspirations have become a priority. The French non-selective model is in fact unfair to the contrary of what it claims to be. Your reform, although accused of imposing selection as claimed by some unions that so accredit the idea, is in fact anything but selective since the principle summarized by the "yes" or the "yes if" allows the student to have the last word. By the way, you continue to improve the autonomy of academic institutions by ultimately entrusting the rectors with the assignment of certain candidates. On the contrary, we call for the strengthening of what Valérie Pécresse had initiated and for an act II of university autonomy. One of the key points of your reform is orientation, a weak link in secondary education. Good guidance is first of all good information. There is no shortage of information today, as the many people interviewed have confirmed, but it is plethoric and is not prioritized. As for the examination of applications at the university, it is difficult to imagine where the university, so poor, will be able to find the human and budgetary resources to examine each case as you have committed to it. Two million to two and a half million wishes will have to be answered. The position of the CPU – Conference of University Presidents – is without appeal: "We will not be able to examine all the files one by one. " It is therefore a lure to pretend that the orientation of each student will henceforth be hand-sewn. Let us come to the other strong point of your reform which in our view is crucial: the expected. Semantic subsidence has also done its work there. No prerequisites or expectations: these words are not included in the bill. The term "future" is included in the explanatory memorandum, but not in the text itself. However, this is a major point. I will defend an amendment to Article 1e r to ensure that teaching aids and individualised training schemes are complemented by special attention to language proficiency. How can we ignore the alarm of university presidents, who have been appalled by the catastrophic loss of mastery of French, a phenomenon which has been observed from primary to higher? Our country's challenge is to provide students with higher education that ensures not only their success but also their professional integration. I was struck at the hearings by the way in which most of our interlocutors defended themselves from any "adequacy" as if it were the worst of the dangers. However, I believe that it is possible to improve the suitability of training for job opportunities without selling one's soul. Is this not the reason for publishing the integration rates by sector to student applicants? Yet many find such a fit more unbearable than the scandalous unemployment rate of our youth. There is a need to change the paradigm, not by subjecting ourselves to market demands, but by a qualitative requirement that gives confidence to young people and their families. The successful courses are also the most demanding: the preparatory classes, which, contrary to what is believed, have a good number of scholarship students, but also the technological ones, which must be ensured not to be weakened by the introduction of poorly calibrated quotas. These models are attractive and popular among young people and their families, both for the safety of the journey and for the employability at the end of the journey. Selection is an asset and it is desired. I see that it is difficult to reconcile selection and democratisation, but I do not think that the solution is the same for all: it is the sense of autonomy that we would like to see progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u29	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Just one sentence, Mr. President. More than that, we would have liked frank choices that face the problems that have been known for so long and whose solutions are constantly postponed for lack of political courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u31	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, the French university tradition is in a state of suffering. All over the world, complaints are accumulating. Here, teachers are crushed by administrative tasks; There, researchers no longer have the freedom or time to take an interest in their subjects; There, students are delivered to adult life in an administrative capharnaum. International rankings and lists of publications continue to illustrate the poor performance of our schools and faculties. Yet France continues to train elite scientists and esteemed leaders around the world, a paradox on which so many ministers and committees have been collapsing for decades. Things are improving, first of all thanks to the work of Jean-Michel Blanquer, the best minister on the right of the last twenty-five years...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u33	It's still a little early to judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u34	..., then because you bring a little freedom to universities. But it would have been necessary to go much further by leaving those who wish to select their students, and even select them in the way they want. The financial autonomy of institutions should have been greatly increased so that they could manage contracts, administrative assistance and activities with complete freedom. [[Murmurs on various benches]] It would have been necessary to stop with the marotte the maximum percentage of foreign bachelors at the academy of assignment. On the contrary, it is by allowing universities to decide for themselves on this kind of thing that the whole of our territory will be able to benefit from a diversified academic offer, with singularities, roots and even identity affirmations. It is so true that common sense prefers to hear Corsican speaking at the University of Corte rather than the inclusive language in a post-situationist Parisian amphi. Another subject is not covered in this text, which is nevertheless a fundamental blade in the injustices suffered by our students at university. I'm talking about intellectual terrorism. It is urgent that those responsible for higher education attack the chapels, the ideological sects of all kinds that are arranged in doctoral contracts, which discriminate because of the supposed political ideas of their students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u35	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u36	It is urgent that in France an oral trade school is no longer a recitation of neoliberal catechism and subjects of mastery of philosophy of odes obligatory to Kantian universalism. As long as we do not leave our university system of this true sclerosis, which undermines ideas, creativity and paths, we will be condemned to regress. This taboo of the politicization of academic careers must be lifted with force. As such, I am surprised that the Prime Minister did not deign to receive the UNI – Inter-University National Union – an influential union in the academic world. Perhaps he does not want to respond to the concern that the students share in the statement I read: the union "declares the creation of a new administrative gas plant to collect this tax whose funds will pass through the CROUS. The latter will be managed in part by student associations without any guarantee of transparency, which poses a risk of clientelism. » Let us note, however, some good initiatives in your text: Article 5 is thus a step forward, but we will have to remain attentive to the decrees. While the opportunity for students to learn outside the university setting is an intelligent inclination, it remains to be seen how universities will put in place mechanisms. The abolition of the special student social security scheme will be another development. I believe that we have all met with these students who have been lost in the corridors of administrations seeking to change their status. On the other hand, mutual students and their political colouration did not end by ideologicalizing certain aids. I hope that the single contribution provided for in Article 4 will help to avoid this pitfall. The development of fertility control mentioned in the impact study is not very specific. Let us hope that those involved in this field will not be ideological associations, but care workers concerned about the common good. One more remark on one of the axes of our future work on the relationship with families. One of the keys to the success of private universities is that they affirm their role as family assistants on a number of subjects and that they can associate in major school moments, or even in technical development, the parents of the students. They often assume financial and human responsibility for the entry of their children into adult life. Creating a wall between the university and them is tantamount to denying links of natural solidarity that can only participate in the orientation of the choice of students. There is no doubt that parents know their offspring better than all doctors of pedagogy science and other experts. If I acknowledge the improvements made by this text, I regret the delays, which were really not necessary, and the unfortunate shortcomings. There was a need to reform the baccalaureate, to strengthen the autonomy of the institutions and to break the monopolies of the politicized mutuals. That is not done. It is on condition that we link again knowledge and freedom that we regain our rank. That is how we will be able to abandon a state-owned system, by too much Jacobin and far too much administrative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u38	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this reform of access to higher education, which other governments have supported before abandoning it, which they have all considered without the courage to carry it out, this reform which has been necessary for thirty years because of the demographic shock and the failure rate at university, which we are making urgent, this reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u40	Zorro's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u41	We do it, first of all, because we committed ourselves to it during the campaign with our constituents. We do it, then, because there is an urgent need to reform access to higher education in order to respond to the influx of new students and better accompany each of them towards success. Finally, we are doing so because this text is in line with the principles that guide our action and that of the Government – with the support of the deputies of the majority – since the election of the President of the Republic. These principles, what are they? In view of the time allotted to me, I shall mention only two of them: first, the need to speak true, to look at things in the face and to name them; Second, the desire to promote mobility so that no student is placed under house arrest. "What went wrong in APB is not the software, but the state," my colleague Cédric Villani wrote in a recent forum published in Le Monde. It is the inability of the policy to define and take on its choices and not a malfunction of the software that has led to the difficulties that we have experienced this summer and, beyond that, to this rate of licensing failure which is a shame for our country. Some, on the benches of this assembly, accuse us of implementing a form of selection at the entrance to the university. To those, I will reply that this selection already exists and that what we want to do, on the contrary, is to correct the adverse effects. What are the criteria used today to separate candidates for training? The order of vows, the geographical and family situation, and, lastly, the drawing of lots. There he is, the arbitrariness! Here's the selection! In addition, we would like to believe that, in the name of equal opportunities, any student should be allowed to register anywhere. But who does not see hypocrisy, the very great violence that there is to allow some students to access training where they have no chance of succeeding? The real selection, all the more brutal since it does not say its name, it is selection by failure! What this text proposes is to move from higher education for all to success in higher education for all. This is the meaning of the teaching aids that will be proposed so as not to leave anyone on the edge of the road. Finally, it is the meaning of the abolition of the drawing of lots, replaced by a more fair and transparent way of separating candidates, which will be based on their profile. But this necessary clarification must be accompanied by particular attention to those who, because they would be enrolled in one high school rather than in another, would reside in one academy rather than in another or would have chosen such a path rather than another would not benefit from the same opportunities of access and success in certain fields. This is the second requirement I mentioned in my introductory statement, which concerns our commitment to mobility and, first of all, to geographical mobility. With this text, we introduce a right to mobility so that no student is placed under house arrest. As a Member of Parliament for Paris, I am particularly committed to the fact that students living in large suburbs, for example, are not a priori deprived of the benefit of the capital's training offer and of everything else it can offer when they are twenty years old. But this text also supports greater social mobility. This is the meaning of Article 2 which provides for an extension of the system of priority access for the best bachelors. Finally, this text promotes the mobility between the series, the sectors and the routes of training. The aim is to ensure that a choice of orientation formulated at a time t does not determine once and for all life paths. This is why, in the future, further diversification of access to excellence will be required by increasing the number of gateways, particularly in the context of the future draft law on apprenticeship and vocational training. The unfair rule of drawing lots must also be replaced by a fairer principle, that of the necessary match between the candidate's profile and training. At the same time, access to higher education must be guaranteed to all bachelors, in particular to those who, for some reason, might be permanently closed, as some have advocated. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The draft law on the guidance and success of students is indeed a text of social progress. "birth is the place of inequality," wrote Jean d'Ormesson lucidly, but he then added, not without malice, that equality took its revenge over time. Let us ensure that with this text equality takes its revenge in an environment that remained unequal until then in order to give all students the opportunity to succeed in their higher education, in their professional careers and in their lives!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u42	The last speaker on the list is Mr Gaël Le Bohec.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to have a thought for the one who was the link of the Great West, and far beyond. He left us yesterday: I mean François-Régis Hutin Humanist, he placed above all the respect of the person. A man with many struggles, a staunch campaigner of European integration, he led our first daily newspaper on a national scale with great values: I want to talk about Ouest-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u44	He was also Christian Democrat.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u45	I dare to think that he would have appreciated the new perspectives that we are going to give to our students, especially in terms of information, who always wanted to bring truth and reality closer together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u46	We can't make the dead talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u47	Minister, you described access to information as paramount. With the Student Orientation and Success Bill, it's about reviving real opportunities for our students. The stakes that bring us here in this House are exciting. This project is presented to us by the Government at the very beginning of the quinquennium: it is therefore a strong act for a major text which is intended to initiate a real educational transformation. It offers students every opportunity to build their project, to access it, but also to achieve it. Access to higher education should not be a flight to failure or a closed selection tool. It is therefore not a question of continuing to send two thirds of the students into the wall, nor is it a question of prohibiting them from reorienting themselves or benefiting from bridges between the higher education sectors. As Jean d'Ormesson rightly said: "All the happiness of the world is in the unexpected. After a baccalaureate, general or professional, everyone must be able to access higher education, but everyone must also be offered the same chances of success by accompaniment adapted to the expectations. Who, in his life, has never borrowed bridges or had opportunities that led him to do something for which he was not necessarily destined? The bill we are considering today meets this requirement of equal opportunity. This text will bring about profound changes in the daily lives of our students. But better living on a daily basis also means better studying and increasing the chances of success. For example, the Government has taken the initiative to abolish the student social security system. The €217 contribution requested from them will therefore be abolished from the start of 2018 and students will be eligible to be enrolled in the general social protection scheme. This legislative development is in line with the directions of the Student Plan presented by the Minister. The strengthening of university health services, the establishment of ten additional health centres – from 24 to 34 by 2019 – and the creation of a student prevention conference to identify priority actions and monitor the health status of students are all important points. I would add that this student prevention conference will involve representatives of the university, students and health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u48	Welcome to UNEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u49	The abolition of the specific student social security scheme and the measures provided for in the Student Plan will have three direct consequences: the first, a concrete impact on the purchasing power of students; the second, a certain improvement in their health; the third, an undeniable influence on the success of their studies. The text here offers a fundamental tool: it introduces a single contribution – from which scholarship students will of course be exempt. The aim is to enable all students to have access to social services, health services, but also to enjoy an openness to culture and access to the practice of sport. This contribution will fulfil an essential mission by being a vector of social cohesion. The success of graduate studies for students is ultimately a global success for society as a whole. To allow everyone to pursue the higher education of his choice and to offer him all the guarantees to succeed in this journey is the objective that we, the deputies of the Republic on the move, have a duty to carry out. So yes: our sole goal is to give each student the tools necessary for their emancipation and success.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u50	The general discussion is closed. Mr Gabriel Attal, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u51	Very quickly, Mr President, first of all to welcome and thank all the speakers who spoke during this general discussion and thus began a debate which will continue in the coming days. Then I wanted to react to two points that asked me. First of all, a number of speakers appeared to be surprised or regretting that a number of measures, including guidance and information for high school students, were not included in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u52	Look at us, rapporteur! Turn your head over here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u53	Mr. Pradieu, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u54	I would like to recall two very distinct things that depend on each other. On the one hand, the Student Plan, on the other hand, the bill we are considering today. It is not to you that I will learn that there are regulatory and legislative measures. That has already been said: the bill we are looking at is the legislative basis for the implementation of the new procedure. All measures relating to guidance in high school, information for high school students, such as those relating to the personalisation of courses in higher education, are not part of the legislative field. That is why they are not included in this bill. They do, however, exist, as we have seen during the hearings we conducted, and it is enough to consult the Student Plan to find out. I will not remind them all, but, for example with regard to guidance in high school: the appointment of a second principal teacher, the establishment of two weeks of guidance, all the measures taken to strengthen the link between the superior and the secondary school with, in particular, the student ambassadors. These measures are not included in the bill, but they accompany it strongly. Of course, all this is connected. Secondly, I hope that our colleagues in La France, who have been unsubstantiated, have listened carefully to the successive interventions, in particular those of a number of speakers in the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u55	We are, like you, a little hard of the leaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u56	You accuse us of making a selection bill, but you may have heard a number of interventions, including Ms. Le Grip's rather detailed one, aimed at introducing a dry selection...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u57	Dry?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u58	... at the university: it would be a matter of closing the doors to a number of students by allowing the institutions to select them...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u59	No caricature, dear friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...on file as part of internal procedures. This is selection, but it is not the Government's project and it is not what is included in this bill, which aims to promote success by strengthening the support of all students in the superior! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] With these two elements I wanted to recall, we will be able to start our discussions calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u62	As the minister does not wish to intervene at this stage, I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u63	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Damien Adam.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u64	In the face of the upheavals in the labour market, students have become very demanding of higher education. They know that their training will in many cases determine their integration and subsequent evolution into a labour market which is now the scene of great competition. Future students are therefore looking for the best training, which sometimes leads to competition between universities to attract them. This competition sometimes takes place at the expense of universities in medium-sized cities, thus undermining territorial cohesion, the attractiveness of the territories and the democratization of higher education. Qualifying and high-level training must be provided throughout the country, at all our universities, and not concentrated solely in Île-de-France. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the risk of a two-speed university system between the universities of Paris and the provinces. For example, in my constituency, the University of Rouen-Normandie has real assets and plays a major role in the territory. I would not like these provincial universities to be able to accommodate the best students in their territories, who have been aspired by Parisian universities. The absence of any geographical criteria for access to training can be problematic. It would seem appropriate for universities to have a right of control over enrolment, depending on the origin of the students. This would have the dual advantage of facilitating access to higher education training in the academy in which it resides for the bachelor who wishes to do so, and of avoiding dumping between academies by reducing competition between universities. The aim, of course, is not to restrict the mobility of students, nor to prevent them from taking specific training which would only be provided in certain institutions located far from home.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u65	I invite our friends and colleagues from the Republicans who arrive late in this House to settle down in silence, so as not to disturb our colleagues who are speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u67	We haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u68	Your speech is absolutely out of date, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u69	I suspect you want to create tensions yourself, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u70	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u71	I would like to take advantage of this discussion on Article 1 to recognize that the drawing of lots is a huge waste for students who are subjected to it in the fields of tension. Together with my former colleague Pascal Deguilhem, we had already highlighted this fact in the report we submitted to the Prime Minister in 2016, which focused on sport and school, and in particular on the place of sport in higher education. We were already calling for the abolition of the drawing of lots in the fields of training in sports trades, or STAPS – science and technology of physical and sports activities. Although we share the concerns of the Government following the incidents on the PDB platform, it should be recalled that the satisfaction rate of the first wishes of the candidates is 93 per cent in the health sectors, 76 per cent in the law and 70 per cent in psychology. So, as we have heard in recent weeks, it should not be suggested that all students, or almost all of them, have so far been drawn by lot. However, there were too many people who were drawn by lot, Minister, as we have already had the opportunity to say together in committee. To deal with this situation, you introduce a form of selection, and not only in selective channels. Indeed, in non-selective training, the high school student will be able to receive three answers: "yes", "waiting" and the famous "yes, yes". With the "yes, yes", the worm is introduced into the apple, Madam Minister, since prerequisites will be defined for each academic field. These prerequisites were revealed today in a 48-page document, which sets out a framework at the national level. But the word that comes back most often in this document – fifty and once, to be precise – is the word "autonomy". So that's what you expect first of all from the bachelors with this reform: autonomy! Our fears are therefore confirmed: some students from the modest or disadvantaged classes will be disadvantaged, due to the greater complexity of the relationship to studies in these social circles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u72	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u73	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Article 1 guarantees access to higher education for all holders of the baccalaureate and at the same time sets out the objective of the successful completion of the training course for all students. Each high school student will be part of a strengthened approach to guidance support – a more informed orientation. It will benefit from increased attention, which will enable it to take better account, on the one hand, of its progress, its achievements, its skills, its professional project, and, on the other hand, of the expectations of the formations of the superior which it might consider to follow. The article states that "the characteristics of each training shall be brought to the knowledge of the candidates". This is, of course, a very positive point, even if it is necessary to help each student and family interpret the data that will be provided. I am thinking in particular of the rate of occupational integration, which, if it has a major interest in a professional licence, presents less of it for a general licence which, in the vast majority of cases, leads to further education. This enhanced information and support must be implemented gradually from the time of arrival in high school, even if it will naturally be completed at the end, before and during the pre-registration phase carried out with the help of the new platform. By no longer asking high school students to prioritize their wishes for further education, the assignment process described in this article will allow each candidate to potentially receive several favorable answers, which will put him in a position to choose and give him an opportunity to value and take on the path he envisages. This article gives the possibility, for non-selective training, to condition the enrolment of a high school student who does not have all the expectations necessary for his or her acceptance of a specific educational course. We support this innovation because it places the student in a dynamic of success and pushes him to take on his choices. This new arrangement empowers both the host institution and the student, as they will engage together in a successful teaching contract. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We will have to ensure that these arrangements apply in the same way throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u74	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u75	[["Ah? » on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can only join the Members of the La France group when they recall how much our higher education system illustrates the strength of social determinisms, which many of us here want to conjure – it is even sometimes the very source of our commitment. Indeed, we find it terrible that only 6% of workers' children validate a graduate degree – compared to 52% for managerial and teacher children. But what we radically diverge from our colleagues in France is how to bring the greatest number of people to success and sustainable professional integration, which is one of the missions of our universities today, along with the dissemination and production of knowledge. The measures contained in this Article are precisely such as to transform things in depth and to better accompany those who need them most and who want to build a future by obtaining a higher education diploma. This article, together with the accompanying financial measures, which were recalled earlier by the Minister, makes it possible to set up specific routes for those who have a project, but who do not always have the right luggage to arrive at their destination. We do not believe, unlike our colleague Jean-Luc Mélenchon, that it is necessary, as is very often the case today, to consider that each student has the same chance of succeeding and to offer him the same well-frozen and rigid pipes. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Some universities already apply, on an experimental basis, the devices that we want to generalize. I am thinking, for example, of the University of Orsay and its scientific courses, which are open to bachelor's degrees with a literary or economic and social baccalaureate, or even a professional or technological baccalaureate, and which, because they really want to engage in this field, follow a specific first year of teaching. These are devices of this kind that we want to value through this article 1st, so that the success rates of a university such as La Rochelle, which has 80% success in a bachelor's degree, also become general. This is the subject of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u76	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u77	The system of access to undergraduate education was no longer able to absorb a massive increase in the number of bachelors who legitimately wished to access a bachelor's degree. It was this situation that led to the worst solution being to divide the candidates by drawing lots into the most requested channels. This situation was unfair and could no longer be sustained. This law was therefore very much expected, and necessary. Article 1 strongly reaffirms the principle of opening the undergraduate to all students who hold the baccalaureate. It combines a public policy objective, the success of students, accompanied by an instrument, the personalisation of the courses and the accompanying arrangements. Finally, it provides for a necessary adaptation of the teachings, in order to take account of the diversity of the students. In addition, coordination between secondary and higher education is strengthened. A great novelty lies in the publication of the expected results of each training. It should be noted that the purpose of this measure is not to increase selection, as some would suggest, but rather to increase transparency. The aim is for each student to commit themselves by having a clearer idea of what is ahead. In addition, a specific and personalized accompanying course can be offered to strengthen its chances of success. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The aim is to put an end to both the drawing of lots and the massive failure. Indeed, we can no longer accept that a large part of our students fail, that two-thirds fail to obtain a license in three years, and that by the end of the first year of the degree, only 40% of students are admitted in the second year. The drawing of lots is now removed, the choice of orientation simplified, and the responsibility to propose a satisfactory solution to each, clearly defined. I welcome the new wording of article L. 612-3 of the Education Code, which provides a solid legal basis for the new platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u78	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u79	I must say that I am a little disappointed at the turn of our discussion earlier. Let us assume that we have different points of view, but let us not lend positions to others that are not theirs. Madam, our Commissioners have participated in the work of the committee. Mr rapporteur, we have made proposals, and accept that your amendment No 228 contains two proposals from the Group of the European People's Party. Let's look at what's against us. None of us are in favour of drawing lots. None of us can say that the way in which university recruitment is made is content with its republican spirit, by its openness to all social categories in the country. That is not the point of debate between us. Let me refer instead to the debate on the situation of higher education in France and in the world, which has been going on for thirty years. We live in a global environment that puts pressure on us. Between Shanghai's ranking and the European Commission's educational policies, everything pushes, under the colour of autonomy of the institutions – which we all demand – to a competition between them. And, in this matter, the downstream commands the upstream. When you have defined expectations or prerequisites in a university, as academics naturally tend to raise the level, you will create, by the force of things, a numerus clausus, because not everyone will satisfy these expectations. You say there will be a preparatory year, but that is exactly what already exists in medical schools, where there are classes of preparation for the first year. However, the first-year success rate is only 15%. So let's take things the way they are! Let me tell you that it is a mistake to wield the French system to satisfy other views. There's enough to hear that national education is no good at anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u80	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u81	...that our students can't read, write, count...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u82	They're caricatures!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... and that higher education does not lead to anything. France is one of the great learned nations, and we have representatives on these benches, who have passed through the system that has been condemned with the same words for forty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u84	Thank you for closing, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You voted to delete the following sentence: "Any candidate is free to register in the institution of his or her choice. In doing so, you are actually setting up a numerus clausus.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u86	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u87	Article 1 reasserts the principle that every person who holds the baccalaureate has the right to access higher education. He wants to avoid a recurrence of the scandal that we experienced this summer, by putting an end to the drawing of lots of students, which had been decided under the previous quinquennium – an objective on which we all agree. Beyond the ubiquitous nature of the Admission Post Bac computer application, this situation is the result of France's under-equipment in the field of universities. The major university centres have come to saturation, Madam Minister, and I have no doubt that, in the great Jacobine tradition of our country, you will propose tomorrow the creation of new universities in Paris, followed by the increase in the capacity of the major university centres of the metropolises, which are nevertheless on the brink of asphyxiation or thrombosis. This is why it is urgent, with a view to planning the territory and diversifying the training courses – two dimensions that are totally absent from this bill – to give the small towns of France their chance. Your government has recently recruited the president of the association that brings them together. He has many qualities, including that of being Ardéchois.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u88	It is also very flexible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u89	These small towns have the land and housing stock that could allow for the establishment of local university centres – what I call "trade universities" – in areas as varied as water, the environment, agri-food or sustainable tourism, for example. This idea of trades universities, valuing learning and alternation – subjects also absent from your bill – deserves to be debated in this House. First, these schools would train young people who are likely to work in the many professions that are now under stress. Second, they would provide concrete and local higher education responses to rural youth who are far from the major cities, and whose studies are more expensive, because they have to move and stay. As in the health and digital fields, the issue of territorial equality arises here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u90	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, Madam Minister, in the field of higher education, the territories are also waiting for strong responses from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u92	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u93	Minister, today we are looking at your first student orientation bill, and we share the same observation: the drawing of lots that has been taking place for five years, this arbitrary and unjust socialist totem, is a real failure. He hit our student politics with a bunch of clubs. We must therefore abolish this practice. It is a will that we share: so much the better. However, I do not hide from you that I feel a certain disappointment in examining this text. We are faced with a minimum bill, which does not respect the chronology of the reforms needed for higher education. Orientation is reformed before reform of high school, baccalaureate, vocational training, apprenticeship and alternation. It's, you'll agree, a little premature. In addition, we find ourselves facing a rather vague text, lacking precision and cruelly ambitious. It is not for lack of having proposed amendments in committee, but you have rejected them. This text avoids, in particular, territorial or local problems specific to certain universities. For example, Savoie Mont Blanc University suffers from a high degree of under-dotation by the State, while it is on a dynamic and very attractive territory, whose demography is constantly increasing. This leads to a desperate situation, which no longer meets the expectations of the ground. The university was forced to block new creation requests for next year. In this case, therefore, one cannot speak of equality between students or between university staff. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Student Plan you are presenting will therefore have to ensure an equitable distribution of the resources budgeted. This is particularly the case in the case of calls for projects, which always benefit the best-off universities, in the name of the concentration of resources in some metropolises. These practices must cease in favour of contracts of objectives and means; There is a need to limit the use of calls for projects. This is a fundamental point, which will determine the success of your reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u94	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u95	Section 1 includes several of the key developments introduced by this bill. First of all, I come back to it, it removes the draw by lot, which has developed strongly in recent years: it involved 169 licensing channels last year, compared to 78 in 2016. There is nothing more unfair or ineffective than the drawing of lots. It is unfair because it denies the ambition of our young people, their desires and their plans, but also their efforts when they have built their school path with the precise aim of reaching a given stream of higher education. Inefficient because, by randomly choosing the bachelors assigned to a particular sector, he was able to select young people who did not have all the necessary baggage or envy to succeed. Second, article 1 provides for an improvement of the information of high school students through the new platform "Parcoursup". However, this improvement is of paramount importance. We have the weakness of having confidence in our high school students, and we are convinced that, with better information, we will avoid that 47% of them choose only four courses, namely the first year common to health studies – PACES –, the sciences and techniques of physical and sports activities – STAPS – law and psychology, thereby creating tensions in reception, while places remain in other fields of higher education. Thirdly, in order to combat licence failure, Article 1 aims to strengthen the support in the first year of the licence. Today, as we know, the licence takes three or four years or more, often after years lost as a result of a drop-out or disappointment with a sector, a method of learning or a lack of level in a particular subject. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Better oriented, our high school students will also be better accompanied. They will be offered devices to help them pass the difficult course between the high school and the superior. This will particularly concern those who need it most. Thanks to early identification, as soon as they wish, from their orientation, these personalized aids will enable them to obtain a diploma from higher education, of which we know that in our country it is the real shield against unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u96	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u97	Many of us still have in mind the scandal that occurred a few months ago during the admission campaign in the first cycle of the superior and which resulted in the depriving some bachelors of assignment. The national procedure for pre-registration throughout the terminal year, established by Article 1, is intended to remedy these difficulties. We will see to the use if it fulfils this objective. In addition to these technical aspects, Article 1e r invites us to examine the very philosophy of access to higher education, in so far as it reaffirms the general right of access to the first cycle of higher education for any person who holds the baccalaureate. We do not dispute this right. On the contrary, we want him to be part of a global process of reflection on the baccalaureate itself. It is in reality the baccalaureate which must be the means of selection for entry into the undergraduate level of higher education. But, in order to do so, is it necessary to seek to constantly raise the limit of the percentage of success in this examination in disregard, sometimes, of the level of knowledge required? Is it sound to let it accredit the idea that, without obtaining the baccalaureate, no worthy or fulfilling professional future could exist? To these two questions, of course, we answer in the negative. While it is appropriate to allow the largest number of deserving high school students to enter a professionalising higher education course, this must not, of course, be done at the cost of a general lowering of the level of the baccalaureate. Moreover, we are not part of this elite which considers learning as a second-rate orientation; It is important to revalue manual work. In this area as in others, ideology has no place and meritocracy must remain the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u99	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u100	As we begin our consideration of this bill, the fact is that the congestion of certain sectors has led to practices that do not respect our desire to offer the same chances of success to all young people. Many of us intervened this summer – this was my case – to try to unlock complex situations: young people were without training, stuck between two worlds, the high school, of which they were no longer part, and the student life, which could not accommodate them. This is particularly striking since 117000 places remain available in other training courses. We must guard against arithmetical reasoning which would lead us to consider formations as communicating vessels. However, other less well-known routes can achieve the goal pursued. Under these conditions, an effort must be made to raise awareness of these alternative training courses, so that students have more opportunities of choice. In particular, additional places should be opened in fields corresponding to the needs of the labour market – I am thinking in particular of the IUTs. In my view, the aim must not be to limit access to knowledge and success due to lack of places, but to ensure that everyone can benefit from the conditions of success. While the number of students in France reached 2.6 million in 2016-2017, all institutions combined, and it will increase further by 28,000 according to the Government's forecasts, the question of an increase in appropriations will be necessary, in particular to accompany the daily lives of students. Orientation, student support and study conditions are all central points of success. Leaving the students on the side of the road is to be sure that they will never have the chance to prove what they are capable of. Finally, like a colleague who has just spoken, I would like to draw attention to the need to preserve and strengthen, in our territories, university sites relocated to medium-sized cities. While we tend, at present, to strengthen the major university centres in the metropolises, these branches allow students to follow their curriculum as close as possible to their place of residence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u101	Thank you, Mr. Pueyo...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u102	...which has a significant effect on their budget and that of their families. And there are places on these sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u103	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u104	"Do your games, nothing goes anymore! It is difficult to envisage a serene future when your student life begins with the lottery. Freedom to learn is a right, but this right must not obscure the university's mission of training our young people to ensure their future. I listened carefully to you, Mr rapporteur, and I congratulate you: you are an excellent spokesman for some completely dogmatic student unions. You have also tabled amendments that are in line with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u105	You dropped off the same ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u106	Minister, I just want to say two things to you about the selection. First, selection is not a big word.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u107	It's not a big word, but it's not our project!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u108	On the contrary, it empowers high school students in the construction of their professional project and highlights the work done throughout the course. Let's not face it! The selection already exists at the university: it is the selection by failure, that of a large number of students from the first year. Secondly, selection at entry does not preclude freedom of access to higher education. A similar principle for access to public service trades is that the competition ensures that the constitutional principle of equal access to public employment is respected. Perhaps this should be taken into account by introducing a university entrance examination, which would replace the examination of the files. Moreover, the university is no longer the panacea. We need to start a great reflection on the development of the professional sectors, which some consider to be garage tracks, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u109	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u110	... while they are all paths leading to excellence. This bill therefore continues to raise questions, both as to the feasibility – due to the very short time it takes for it to come into force – and as to how to apply: how to examine the mass of applications? On the basis of what elements? What will be expected for each training? Will financial and human resources be sufficient? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, I fear that, on the test of reality, behind the deliberately reassuring words of this bill, there will be new evils for our high school students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u111	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u112	Article 1 seeks to make a fundamental change in the system of enrolment of candidates in higher education and finally to put an end to the unjust system of drawing lots which we have experienced with the PDB procedure. I welcome the balance established by the Government, which will give birth to a first cycle open to all bachelors and adapted to the needs of each, following a registration procedure in which human beings and justice will have regained their place. The provisions of Article 1 constitute the very essence of the reform: the first cycle open to all the holders of the baccalaureate, the provision of pedagogical support and personalized training courses, the new national pre-registration procedure, the arrangements for the enrolment of students in normal situations and when the courses are in tension. The examination in committee has made it possible to enrich the text: for example, on the proposal of the rapporteur, the student's state of health or disability will be taken into account, and an annual review of the Parcoursup has been introduced. We want to help improve it further. In particular, we will ensure that the new university entry process is not only fairer, but also more transparent than it was. We will also ensure that teachers and guidance staff find their place in the new system. With them, we want high school students and students to be accompanied as part of a real orientation course, so that they can build their project over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u113	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u114	Any student wishing to pursue higher education should have a guaranteed place in the university. To do so, the university budget should be strengthened so that it can accommodate students in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u116	Thank you, my colleague. There should be no left-for-account from a form of selection-sanction at the time of obtaining the baccalaureate. The reform should therefore form part of a comprehensive mentoring strategy so that all students can have a chance to succeed. The French model must promote equal opportunities from an early age with the help of better student support. The university must be the place of all possible. Inequalities must be reduced. Social development must be guaranteed. Everyone must be able to rise in the social sphere. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would particularly like to draw your attention to the situation of young people between the ages of 18 and 25, who are the most precarious. I hope that stronger measures will be proposed to give new generations hope and a better future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u117	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u118	In any higher education policy, the primary objective should be, almost by definition, to raise the general level of qualification. This involves better preparation of high school students for further studies in the higher education system. At the end of the baccalaureate, how many of them, not knowing where to go, choose to little happiness a course that nevertheless engages their whole future? There is therefore a need for better training and information for high school students. The pre-registration procedure is a good thing, as it encourages the future bachelor to clearly identify the content and stakes of the sector he intends to follow. With regard to the registration procedure, it is stated that "higher education institutions shall [pronounce] admissions within the limits of reception capacity". This is a worrying formula, and this provision does not provide a solution to the major problem of bottling at the entrance of the superior. The only substantive answer would, of course, be to calibrate the absorption capacity of universities to the level of demand, which would obviously require considerable investment, but higher education is worth it, if I may say so. Beyond the debate on selection at the entrance, the key issue is the level of students. First-year courses are often a difficult test for teachers – they all know that – as a whole of the audience does not have the required level. We appreciate the provision of educational support, further education and rhythms, but we hope above all that universities will have the means to implement these essential measures. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] We know from experience the quality and commitment of the staff – I extend a friendly greeting to my colleagues at the University of Corsica. We hope that there will be a strong political will to accompany, through France, all these personnel in their mission, which is to open up the future to students and, through them, to society as a whole. We will appreciate this text in the light of what it will be in its final form.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u119	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u120	[["He's right!" on the benches of the LR group]] We are considering this evening and this week a small bill, a text that is in fact being drafted urgently to respond to the collapse of the PDB system left by the socialist government. This text does not respond to the real challenges of French higher education, namely the lack of equal opportunities. After the adoption of this text, we will always have on the one hand children whose families have a certain capital, be it geographical, social, cultural or financial, who will be able to enrol their children in preparatory classes, in large schools or send them abroad, and on the other hand all the others: those who were born in the province and those whose parents do not have much capital, who will continue to be enrolled in universities, whose courses will continue to be blocked.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u121	We can succeed in the province!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u122	With your system, university courses will always be in tension, blocked, and therefore will not ensure real equality of opportunity. It is in this context that selection is relevant, because it is the guarantee for all children, especially those from the popular and middle classes, to have a place in the desired field of the chosen university, if they work well in school. This will reverse the French paradigm that the great schools are the system of excellence, not the university, whereas this should be the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u123	You have to tell Mr. Wauquiez!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u124	Worse, you are aggravating this situation, since you are creating segregation by prohibiting provincial children from enrolling in the best universities in Paris, for example, in law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u125	The best universities are not in Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u126	Indeed, you introduce quotas or prohibit changes at the level of academies. In addition, you attack the popular and middle classes: by creating this new student tax, you tap those who have too much money to have scholarships but who do not have enough to study where they want to. At the same time, an amendment by the rapporteur provides for the exemption of asylum seekers and refugees. This is a real scandal for the French popular and middle classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u127	They're left behind!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u128	Finally, I give you a good point for the abolition of student mutuals, because their funds, as we all know, were used to finance political associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u129	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u130	Tell Mr. Wauquiez about the Interuniversity National Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u131	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u132	I will not go back to the elements already mentioned. I will simply take the exact example of a high school student who will graduate this year, and who has two different professional projects: engineer or doctor. He lives in Île-de-France, where medical schools are in high tension. He would of course like to be able to prioritize his wishes and make a mix, for a very simple reason: first, there are differences between the faculties of medicine in France; Then, in order to secure his career, he would like to be able to select faculties outside the Île-de-France; Finally, he would like to be able to select some preparatory classes. This high school student will encounter two difficulties that did not previously exist. First, there is no longer a hierarchy of vows. Secondly, it is no longer possible to express twenty-four wishes, as before, but ten wishes at the most. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As I had the opportunity to say, 20% of bachelors made more than ten vows. You're holding them together. Above all, you reduce their chances of finding their way by reducing the number of choices. This will be particularly true of the Frisian bachelors. I'm not sure you've taken this difficulty into account. You should have paid attention to it. Ten wishes are largely insufficient when the future of our youth is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u133	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u134	The amendment to section L. 612-3 of the Education Code reflects the key issues of the bill. When the phrase "Any candidate is free to register in the institution of his choice" is deleted, there is no further debate. There is no point in turning a pot: there is a selection, assumed or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u135	Get along with colleagues from the Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u136	In any case, there is one form of selection that you do not address: social selection, which means that today, in order to study in a higher education institution, to do this, we need means.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u137	It's a money selection!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u138	Even when you're a stock marketer, it's not that simple. And when you're not, it's kind of complicated. Indeed, university residences are needed. But there are not everywhere, and they are not of equal quality – I will come back to that. If you don't have enough money, you have to find a student job. But there's not always one next to you. In the end, you are sometimes forced, at present, to enrol in the nearest university and to follow the courses it offers. Nord-Pas-de-Calais is a good example, as there are many local universities, such as the University of the Littoral-Côte d'Opale or the University of Artois. For example, cities such as Boulogne, Dunkirk and Calais offer only certain sectors, and one must be able to be mobile, which is not so easy. Ms. Brugnera, you said that improving student life means improving student success. That's right! But I'm not sure that Article 4 is enough. It would take a lot more. Finally, Minister, I reiterate my invitation to visit a university residence. For if students are to succeed, they must first be accommodated in decent housing. I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u139	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u140	For having met with many young high school students, I measure the difficulties and anxieties caused by the orientation and choice of training. I expected a lot of your text, minister. I admit I'm disappointed and wondering. Article 1 provides that during the pre-registration procedure the pupil will be aware of the "characteristics of each training". We are far from clear, transparent pedagogical prerequisites that would allow students to orient themselves and universities to make an objective selection. In fact, nothing changes for those fields which are not in tension, apart from the creation for high school students who apply in a non-selective field for a specific compulsory accompaniment. But with what means, what courses and what premises? In the case of the overcrowded fields, in which the drawing of lots had been put in place, if, despite the additional places created in 2018 or the clustered thematic greeting schemes, the demand is higher than the offer, the candidates will be selected on the basis of the best match between the training project, the learning outcomes, their skills and the characteristics of the training. In concrete terms, you do not want to take on a clear, clear and transparent selection for all and therefore create a heavy and bureaucratic system of commissions. How is this going to happen, minister? With what organization, staff and means? To the student who has not had a place in the field requested, a rectoral jury will propose an orientation according to the places remaining vacant. The bachelor will then have the choice between a default orientation or what is called a year of caesure. This is where the "right to pursue studies" comes into play, but isn't it illusory? He might create sub-filers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This may be a missed opportunity, minister. You could have provided a clear and fundamental response to young people's orientation and equal opportunities. In this regard, this text does not meet our expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u141	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u142	Minister, it is clear that this text introduces a selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u143	You're dressed like a bourgeois today!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u144	Let Mr. Ruffin speak quietly, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u145	You have to reset my meter to zero, please, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u146	Don't worry, Mr. Ruffin, you'll have your ten seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u147	This selection already exists. Prior to the consideration of this bill, I held some sort of Tupperware meetings in my constituency where the students told me what they thought about this selection and how they lived on a daily basis. Obviously, there are several reasons for dissatisfaction. Thus, Alexander, in his history license, fed his childhood dream of becoming an archaeologist. He could access a professional master's degree in this field and realize his dream. But he had to do two interns of three months, unpaid, when he had already six months of loan. He worked at the time at Brico Depot and Gaumont. To go on probation, he would have had to give up these two jobs or take another credit. He didn't want to do it: he gave up his dream and started working at Mediametry. It's not good for him, but it's not good for the community, which needs higher levels of training! I could also cite the example of Wendy, who lost his scholarship and no longer knows how to continue his studies, or that of another student who already had 25,000 euros of credits to repay, which was a cause for great concern. Among these young people, the one who managed to find his way was the grant holder, at the highest level, eligible for all allowances, including personalized housing assistance. So he had time to quietly choose his way. I think that training income should not be a right reserved for the poorest. It should be extended to all young people, as it allows them to free themselves from economic and financial constraints and to choose their way as calmly as possible. I've had the chance, in my existence, to be able to...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u148	Win money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...to put on the future without being taken to the throat financially.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u150	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u151	I would like to make a few clarifications. First of all, I thank you for the quality of these interventions on Article 1. In total, 54% of students are enrolled in selective courses in France, and no one wonders how the files are analyzed. I assure you, for the 46% of students who will have access to the general licences, the teachers-researchers committed themselves, during the consultation which lasted all summer and which obviously allowed to take into account the requests of the various persons responsible for the implementation of this reform, to accompany the future students and to offer them personalized courses. No doubt, the universities are ready to seize this subject. This allows me to respond to comments on the hasty nature of the consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u152	CPU said rush!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u153	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Find out more about the teachers-researchers and teachers of the superior you know: they will tell you that universities have been waiting a long time to be able to offer personalized courses to students, to take into account the diversity of audiences that academics are extremely proud to welcome in their amphitheater. Provincial universities are no less good than Parisian universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u154	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u155	I want some of the eminent personalities of this House to be proof of this...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u156	[[Laughs]] The eminent personalities are on this side of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u157	You can also question Mr Ciotti on the subject: the university that I had the pleasure of presiding was able to open antennae in very small cities as well as in large ones, located in very different territories of the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u158	Thanks to the General Council!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u159	Be aware that I am absolutely convinced that universities, in all their diversity, have their full place in the territory of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u161	I would like to take this opportunity to answer the questions specific to La Réunion. I have planned to discuss with the President of the University of Réunion the characteristics of this ultramarine region, which obviously needs to be treated differently. In this case, it seems difficult for students to enrol in other universities within a reasonable kilometer range. As we have already indicated, the Government is determined to open up places in the supply chains. Of course, BTS and IUTs will also be involved. Of course, it is important to make it clear that we will work to open up places in all voltage lines. I have already had the opportunity to express myself on the specific question of vocational training and apprenticeship training: these two courses require only another form of pedagogy, but are in no way less excellent than the traditional courses. We are working to strengthen the presence of trades and learning campuses throughout the territories, in accordance with your request. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] Again, this bill is just a tiny part of the Student Plan that we wanted to build in consultation, with several hundred hours of meetings that none of the representative organizations have squandered. These meetings have been held throughout the summer and I would like to thank all these organizations for the national representation. And beyond that, Jean-Michel Blanquer and I are preparing the reform of the baccalaureate, as well as, with Muriel Pénicaud, the reform of vocational training, apprenticeship training and lifelong learning, because we are convinced that having more young graduates and more young people trained is an opportunity for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u162	We come to the amendments, starting with the identical deletion amendments Nos 72 and 174. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u163	The purpose of this amendment is to delete section 1, which is the heart of the bill, since it introduces university selection in various ways. Although I listened carefully to you, minister, I did not understand why you deleted Mr. Bernalicis' first sentence: "Any candidate is free to register in the establishment of his choice," and the second sentence: "The provisions relating to the distribution between institutions and training exclude any selection". Could you clarify the deletion of these two sentences? This article creates barriers to university entry, in contravention of the word "university" itself, the definition of which tends to be universal. I do not claim that you are totally responsible for the bazaar of June and July last. Nevertheless, the latter opened the door to a form of emergency to find a new organization of the orientation of high school students towards university. As I think there is in the House of Bourdieu's fans, I will quote one of his phrases that is particularly close to my heart and that sheds light on the criteria for admission and the risk of social reproduction: "Many official criteria are in fact used to mask hidden criteria, requiring a specific diploma that may be a way of actually demanding a specific social origin. I am sure you know this sentence, rapporteur, you who seem to be a fan of Bourdieu.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u164	He's mostly a fan of Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u165	One doesn't prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u166	I believe that, under the guise of being liberals who want to liberate the energies, today you are suppressing, with the freedom of choice, the freedom to emancipate yourself thanks to the universality of the university, at the same time, when we passed a finance bill which indicates that we are giving additional resources to the high schools while providing for the abolition of posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u167	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u168	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] In life, there is nothing like concrete examples. I'll tell you about Fabien, my part-time parliamentary collaborator. He began with a CAP of painter in building, a BEP sale and a professional baccalaureate in alternation with SNCF, before entering, thanks to the obtaining of this baccalaureate pro, at the faculty, where he obtained a baccalaureate in sociology and a master's degree at the EHESS – School of Higher Studies in Social Sciences. He is currently preparing a doctoral thesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u169	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u170	Cathy, who is currently in a pro baccalaureate in my constituency, came in November to do an internship. She'll be back in January. Fabien's journey, of which she became acquainted, gave him confidence while reminding him of the purpose of the school. Unfortunately, Cathy will not be able to study after the baccalaureate if this text is adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u171	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u172	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The word "success" is destructive in our society, and failures are a very good school. Failure allows you to work on yourself. Failure makes it possible to bounce back.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u173	Let Mrs. Fiat speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u174	You have in front of you a person who has experienced failures: I failed the baccalaureate, I am not ashamed of it. I've come my way. I went back to my bachelor's degree at the age of thirty and then joined the IFAS – an aide-soignant training institute. I have a great career and I'm proud of it. All of this I have acquired not by my academic success but because I have recovered from all my failures. Let us not dream of perfection, let us not dream of becoming billionaires, let us not dream of success, but let us dream of the human, with a great H, because it is the qualities and defects of all future students, whether they succeed or fail, that make us proud. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article. Let us never forget that it is the way to recover from a failure that creates the greatest success.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u175	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u177	Opinions of course opposed to these amendments which aim to delete Article 1, and hence the reform. Mrs Faucillon said it very clearly. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Mrs Faucillon, the first sentence of the new wording of the code proposed by the text clearly states: "The undergraduate is open to all bachelor's graduates." It's clear enough. So it is wrong to pretend, like you, that we close the doors of the superior to holders of the baccalaureate. The Minister has also made a clear commitment to ensure that any bachelor who wishes to continue his studies in the higher education system will find a place there. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mrs Fiat, I agree with you that a failure is never final, that we need to know how to get up and that we can succeed very well without having completed higher education, sometimes even without obtaining a bachelor's degree. We have here examples of Members who have climbed the ranks without a bachelor's degree and who have succeeded in obtaining this fine mandate as parliamentarians. On the other hand, I do not agree when you do not want to dream of success. Yes, we must dream of success, for all young people! For all young people who today do not have the means to evolve in higher education because they do not receive the necessary support, while other young people enjoy family, cultural, financial and social capital that gives them the means to move forward and succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This success must be made accessible to all: this is what Article 1 allows. That is why we refuse to abolish it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u179	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u180	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u181	Clause 1 is the most important part of the bill, since it is the one that can end the drawing of lots, I would remind you, and that reaffirms the access of all bachelors to higher education, but with a principle that aims to promote the success of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u182	It's a joke! How can we not select if the number of places at university is insufficient?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u183	Since this article is indispensable, we will obviously vote against its deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u184	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u185	[[Exclaims on various benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] We have to play on the words... Each bachelor will be able to pursue university studies, but not necessarily those he has chosen! Yet we can have failed in high school, lived for a second or a difficult first, and then say to ourselves one day, sorry to be vulgar, that we screwed up but now we want to give ourselves all the time to succeed in medical studies! It should not be assumed that failure is permanent because one has had, as a teenager, a painful breakdown or a family difficulty. Of course, no one ever had parents who missed a school year by divorcing? Of course it is, and the notes go down in arrows! We must stop focusing on these examples. All young people deserve access to the studies they have chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u186	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u187	With this amendment, we wish to reiterate our commitment to the principle of non-selection at university. I too will repeat this phrase that we have been many to quote this evening, "Any candidate is free to register in the establishment of his choice", principle that clause 1 of the bill deletes, along with that of the bachelor's degree as the first university degree, to prefer a selection going crescendo, under cover of devices to accompany success. It is now the principle of limited reception capacity that is affirmed for undergraduate courses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u189	Opinion against this amendment which I do not think is necessary, since, as we have pointed out, this reform is not the reform of selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u190	You prefer selection by failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u191	It does not seem necessary to include the exclusion of any selection in the text, since there is no selection!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u193	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u194	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u195	How does this text introduce a selection? I will take a concrete example. I'm a senior high school student. Soon, I'll be asked to make ten vows. I hesitate, for example, without being able to prioritize my wishes, between a degree in sociology,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u196	Like by chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u197	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] ...a bachelor's degree in history and geography, a literary prepa, maths sup and an engineering school. I'm going to make my list, and what will I get? There, "yes", there, "yes but we will have to catch up with teaching units" – the text does not specify at all how much – and there, "no"... For the literary prepa, for example, I will be told that I have done a baccalaureate S with bad notes in the literary subjects, and that the literary prepa is a selective formation! This mechanical scientist will certainly send me to the field I want, but on the condition that I follow an additional year: you yourself have recognised it, Madam Minister, rapporteur, an additional year of study, under the present conditions, it is a cost for the student!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u198	But to succeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u199	This parameter has to be entered in line: the smallest students choose the shortest possible courses, in order to reach the labour market as quickly as possible! So it is already a form of selection, which the bill will only worsen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u200	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u201	We reach the limits of the famous "at the same time" from Article 1e r, which you continue to advocate. At the same time, you want to provide a form of selection and guarantee everyone access to the university.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u202	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u203	That's not possible. I have nothing against the selection at the entrance, because it is preferable to the selection by failure which, today, from the first year, puts many young people on the tile. However, selection must go hand in hand with an urgent upgrading of the professional sector. This should have been done before the reform. In our territories, there are many occupations that are in short supply of skills. Young people must be directed towards these professions, which can offer them great career prospects. Therefore, in order to upgrade the university sector, a selection will be introduced. Mrs Faucillon's argument aroused an echo in me: the fact that the student will be obliged to attend school support if he does not have the level to enter the university field of his choice. But how will you make sure he actually follows him? The attendance rate in the first year of university is already very low, once the first two weeks have passed! He may very well not follow these courses while affirming the opposite and in the end, the failure will always be the same. This reform is a false reform that does not solve any of the problems of higher education. It would have been necessary to take things in order, starting with the reform of vocational education, that it is necessary at all costs to upgrade and promote, both in terms of orientation and of means, before organising a real selection at university entrance and more generally in the higher education system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u204	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u205	I would just like to make a few clarifications. First of all, as was said earlier, to study is an investment, not a cost. I think it's important to remind him. Moreover, if a bachelor actually makes the ten wishes that have been mentioned, it is that no one has helped him to build his project, to mature it: there is no consistency to wish all of this at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u206	"At the same time," that's your thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u207	I take this opportunity to answer precisely the questions about the number of possible wishes: some have expressed concern that ten wishes would not suffice. I simply tell them that in the previous system, applicants could make up to twenty-four wishes; But given the system of group wishes as it exists in PDB last year, bachelors have made up to one hundred and thirty-five applications for admission to different training courses! Is that reasonable? I take up the case of the virtual student that was mentioned earlier. If he wants to register for the PACES – the first year of joint health studies – in Île-de-France, it will make a wish: a multiple wish. If he wants to try his luck in the preparatory class, it will be the multiple wish "preparatory class Île-de-France". If he still wants to apply to the PACES outside the Île-de-France, he will have eight wishes. I think that is largely enough for him to express his will.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u208	With this, I would never have made prepa letters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u209	You consider in principle that we have been unable to think of this system in a logical and thoughtful way: wait for the presentation of the platform to express yourself! The technical operation of a platform does not fall entirely within the scope of the law: what we have to decide here is how we will accompany students in their orientation to promote their success. In conclusion, I agree with you on one point: it is very important, as I said earlier, to improve vocational training and apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u210	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u211	In my view, these trainings represent a different but equally effective form of pedagogy, which can lead to equally satisfactory occupations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u212	Even more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u213	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u214	Choosing one's education, basically, is a little bit about choosing one's life. That is why this amendment is intended to proclaim the principle that every student, every student, has the right to enrol in the training of his or her choice. Indeed, this bill effectively abolishes this freedom. We have to keep this in mind! In view of what I have been hearing for some time now, it does not seem to me to be pointless to repeat that Article 1 provides for the outright abolition of provisions in Article L. 612-3 of the Education Code laying down the principle of freedom of enrollment in the institution of one's choice and excluding any selection in access to university. Not to affirm this requirement is to give up what the university must be: an institution that educates citizens, not an institution that trains – or rather distorts – and adapts generations of workers to the sad contemporary labour market. The neo-bacheliers will find themselves alone, without any recourse in case of non-compliance with their wishes for guidance. The academic authorities will be able to offer them further training, including courses which they have not chosen. I don't understand how you can believe that with such a mechanic, you can reduce the failure rate in the first year. Imagine students who wanted to study psychology and find themselves in history: do you think this will improve their success rate in the first year? And it's the same for many fields: your bill does not provide the means to ensure students' success in the first year. That is why our group is opposed to your proposal for selection. You also have to deal with a problem: the entry into university of the baby boom generation of the 2000s, which has not been anticipated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u215	Thank you for closing, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u216	I will take the floor later to conclude my reasoning. Your logic of fiscal austerity ends up reducing rights in our country, and thus freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u218	This is the same logic as the previous amendment, the same debate on inclusion in the selection law. We will be considering an amendment by the Republicans Group to generalize the selection to all sectors. The committee's opinion is unfavorable, honourable Member. I would add that beyond the substantive question I have just mentioned, your writing would simply eliminate the fact that the baccalaureate is the first degree in higher education. In concrete terms, this would open up the possibility of enrolling in higher education without having the baccalaureate, in any field.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u219	Sub-amend, if there's a form problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u221	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u222	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u223	I was talking a few moments ago about the problems caused by the increase in the number of students who want to enter university. That's great news, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u224	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u225	This means that an entire generation wants to raise its level of education. Will we answer that by saying that we do not have the means to welcome everyone and that we have to do selective sorting? Or will we give all students the means to study in dignified conditions? [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] When students do not pass their studies, often it is because the rooms are crowded, it is because they are obliged to work at the same time as their studies...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u226	That's because they're not going to class!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u227	This is the reality for many students. We should therefore seek solutions so that everyone can work in dignified conditions. Students must be given the concrete means to study, without having to struggle to have a place, without constantly having to run after three sous. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] This logic involves sharing wealth; This would enable us to address this problem by raising society as a whole, rather than reducing rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u228	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u229	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u230	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We are accused of being suffering from "acute selection". I insist: for us, it is not a question of being for or against selection, since today, the university selection already exists! It exists in three ways. Let me say something!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u231	Let's hear Mrs. Brugnera.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u232	First of all, there is the fact that bachelors are poorly oriented, poorly informed, sometimes poorly accompanied, and fail because they have not chosen the path that corresponds to them. It then exists because of the drawing of lots, which we intend to delete. There is finally selection through failure. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] What you're claiming is freedom to fail. We, what we want, is better to direct students to the fields where they can succeed. What we want is for them to be better equipped to succeed, to succeed in overcoming this selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u233	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u234	This is an appeal amendment, which seeks to delete in the first sentence of paragraph 4, the words "to all" by replacing them with "to". In doing so, the aim is to bring the text of this bill into line with the remarks made by the President of the Republic. You want to confirm, through this bill, that the undergraduate is open to "all" bachelor's graduates. We propose a different formulation: "The undergraduate is open to bachelor's graduates". I recall that the President of the Republic indicated, on 31 August 2017 in the newspaper Le Point, that he wanted to put an end to the myth of the university for all. By this amendment, we want to bring this text into line with the words of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u236	Unfavorable opinion. As I said a moment ago, the effect of this amendment would be to generalize selection across the whole spectrum of higher education. This is not our wish: the purpose of this reform is not to introduce a general selection, but to enable the students to succeed, by giving them tailor-made support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u238	I thank you, Madam Member, for constantly reminding me of what the President of the Republic thinks. But don't worry, we talk about it at length, frequently. The success of students is a subject of great interest to him and to the Government as a whole: that is why we have obtained an increase in the budget for national education as well as for higher education. Since you want to know the scope of the first sentence of paragraph 4, I will give it to you: indeed, not all students have their place in university. We want every bachelor to find his place in higher education. That is why we are increasing the number of places in the BTS and IUT courses, which are certainly in the universities, but are not part of the general licences. Finally, I would point out that the general licences of universities do not have to be chosen by default, as is all too often the case today: they must be chosen because they are those which lead to the highest national diploma awarded by the French State, namely the doctorate, which is conferred only by the universities. The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u239	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u240	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman: given the time we have to speak, we must seize every opportunity to speak. The selection, the expected... It was the baccalaureate, the national diploma, that served it so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u242	You know we're giving it to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u243	In fact, with this bill, you are putting an end to this system. Under the pretext of denouncing dysfunctions in the orientation, which is rather a part of the course of study at the high school, you introduce a selection that does not say its name, instead of improving the orientation at the high school and increasing the number of places at the university. Your solution is selection – and, I regret to insist, it will really be a selection through money. A simple example, in my academy: a Bordelais to whom the Rector would refuse access to the University of Bordeaux could be assigned to Pau, several hundred kilometers away! If he does not have the means to move, to buy a room, he will therefore not be able to access this channel. Student income is the solution to avoid selection by the money you offer us. This selection by money was theorized by a philosopher we buried last week, who sang: "What is this country where the law of the strongest strikes at night? His name was Jean-Philippe Smet, and these are the words of Michel Berger.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u245	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u246	[[Rites and exclamations on the REM benches]] I will make two remarks. First, I am struck by the fact that in ministerial offices, the majority of those who deal with this text are people who have never set foot in university.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u247	This is ridiculous! The minister has spent her entire career in college!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u248	I didn't talk about you, minister, but about ministerial offices. You know what I'm talking about. It is well known that many cabinet members have never set foot in our universities, since they have been trained elsewhere. Secondly, I would like to stress the haste with which this reform is being carried out. You told me earlier that there was no problem, that you had to be trusted, and that there was no alternative to acting in haste. But a few days ago, the representatives of the Conference of University Presidents, who were heard in the Senate, insisted on the concerns raised in them by the timetable for reform! The heads of secondary schools are also concerned: they did not demonstrate this at the time of the consultation, because at that time the timetable for the reform was not fixed, but for a few days they have made it very widely known. So you shouldn't just say everything's okay! Finally, you said earlier that multiple choices can be formulated within the same choice, for example the CAPES. In this case, it means that there will be not only ten choices, but more: explain to us precisely how many wishes the bachelors can formulate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u249	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u250	The purpose of this amendment is to supplement the second sentence of paragraph 4 of Article 1e r by specifying that teaching aids and personalized training courses are "specific to the requirements of the proposed training courses". They depend on both the profile of the students and the diversity of the audiences, but also on the requirements of the training offered. It is necessary that there is a match between the students and the training offered to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u252	Mrs Genevard, I hear the logic of your amendment, but it seems to me to be the very principle of personalisation of the accompaniment: a lot of attention must be paid to the student himself, that is to say, to his abilities, as well as to his luggage on his arrival at the university. If personalisation thus clearly meets the requirements of the proposed training, it must also depend on the student's personality, in order to enable him to succeed in higher education. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u254	I do believe that this amendment is satisfactory since the very principle of personalisation is that it is obviously dictated by the training and in line with the profile of the student.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u255	It doesn't mean the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u256	The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u257	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u258	[[Smile]] Why not me? That's not fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u259	Everyone agrees on this accompanying procedure, which is indeed essential for educational success. We ask ourselves questions, however, because the device is a real puzzle. It assumes that the teacher in charge of each field knows each student individually.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u260	That'd be good.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u261	This implies that it has the right staff, it means adapting the schedules and managing the occupancy of the rooms... In short, it requires an entire organization and financial resources. While we obviously agree on the substance, we wonder, however, about the feasibility of this procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u262	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u263	With regard to student accompaniment, particularly in the first year, a subject is never addressed: that of the monthlyization. It happens that I taught students a few years ago for a whole year. Over a year, we had the opportunity to accompany students – in this case, law students – and to make progress. They were not at the level at the end of the first semester, sanctioned by a partial, but by the end of the year some of them had passed the barrier. With the monthlyization, they are given final marks at the end of the first semester, they are discouraged and a number give up. Originally, the monthlyization was intended to allow the reorientation in the course of the year. But we know that it has proved to be a complete failure. Minister, have you thought about this? Will you make any proposals? Indeed, in terms of accompaniment, the best thing is to be able to follow the student who has chosen his field throughout the first year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u264	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor to support Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u265	The aim of this amendment is to enable students to access the guidance and information platform from the second class, through their national student identification number, so that they can learn about and prepare for the requirements of the various fields of study. Thus, their project can be matured throughout high school. This requirement, which is set out in the explanatory memorandum, is not clear enough in the bill. We therefore propose a slight modification of the wording, which reads as follows: "This procedure allows students to become aware of the characteristics of each training as soon as they enter". Such a formulation makes it possible to insist on the three years of high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u267	Dear colleague, I hear the logic of your amendment and the will that is yours: to make the information and even the mastery of the procedure accessible to high school students as soon as possible, so that they can mature their draft guidance with the necessary information. As we said earlier, it is obviously the purpose of the Student Plan to strengthen information and guidance as soon as possible in high school. But we have pointed out that the measures that have been taken are not legislative in nature. With this bill, we are simply laying the legal basis for the new assignment procedure. I therefore do not think it necessary to include such a clarification. Perhaps, however, the Government could reassure us and tell us how it intends to make this procedure accessible, at least in consultation, as soon as possible to high school students. I therefore call for Amendment No 223 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u269	Indeed, the provision you are referring to, Member, is of a regulatory rather than a legislative nature: it is for this reason that it is not included in the bill. That being said, you are right: the information must be accessible as soon as possible. This is obviously part of the Student Plan: orientation should start as early as possible, at a minimum from the beginning of high school and ideally upstream. This provision will therefore be made by regulation. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, Madam Member, failing which the Government will be unfavourable because of its regulatory nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u270	Mrs Lang, would you like to withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u271	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u272	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor to support Amendment No. 212.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u273	The aim of this amendment is to include the information and guidance system put in place for applicants during the pre-registration on the "Parcoursup" in a comprehensive accompanying course for high school and undergraduate students. The current wording does not guarantee the establishment of a continuum capable of ensuring the consistency of the messages delivered. This amendment follows the observation made by the Ombudsman for National Education and Higher Education in his 2016 report, which emphasises the discrepancy between the messages delivered at the time of enrolment and the active guidance policy in high schools. Amendment No 212 therefore proposes to ensure continuity by thinking of the accompanying arrangements for pre-registration as a stage in the orientation and construction of a project, and by ensuring a good knowledge of the various sectors of higher education throughout the same course, in particular by increasing the coordination of the actors involved in this orientation, both in secondary and higher education. I also emphasize the importance of reintegrating the latter, who are the great ones who are absent from the bill, both in the reflection and in the drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u275	Opinion in favour of this amendment, which sets out what was said earlier. It seems to me important to clarify in the law that the superior and the secondary school must work together in order to ensure the best possible orientation for high school students and bachelors. These two worlds must succeed in speaking to each other, in the interests of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u277	He was also very much in favour of this amendment in principle. Indeed, we defend the continuity between bac-3 and bac+3: it is therefore essential and fundamental that this continuity can be ensured in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u278	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u279	I understand that not everything can come within the framework of this law, especially in the secondary sector, and that not everything is at the legislative level. But on the occasion of the budget debate, and although this bill, having not yet been voted, is not included in the 2018 Finance Bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u280	Yes, we have even tabled amendments to the appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u281	...we interviewed the Minister of National Education. But at that time I saw no tangible sign that we would think that additional recruitment would be decided in secondary education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u283	...and compensation would be provided, in particular for the arrangements of the two principal teachers, which involve bonuses. Mr rapporteur, you cannot refer everything back to the minister. When we defend this bill today, which relies heavily on guidance in secondary school, what commitments are made in terms of means?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u284	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u285	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I, too, think that as long as we turn around the pot in terms of means, the selection will continue de facto. Until this issue is resolved, you will be forced, and you will force us, to try to find out who is going to go where the curriculum and everyone will not fit into the boxes. We have a hard time talking about social selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u286	No, we're talking about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u287	Today, the financial resources that a high school student can devote to his or her studies can be a brake on his or her choice of orientation once he or she has made his or her wishes and reaped his or her harvest of yes but, yes and no. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I remain, Madam Minister, blocked on the issue of university residences. I hope you will come to Lille to visit some of them. I can even accompany you to see others, for example in Nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u288	Madam Minister, if you agree, we will win two days of debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u289	I would like you to be aware of the problem. Similarly, a number of our colleagues in the Law Committee have gone to prison. It is a good thing to become aware of reality, and then to legislate more effectively. Finally, the great lack of this bill is its social component, which, as was said earlier, is the condition of the student's success. Now, minister, what is in your bill that prevents students from being forced to work during their studies? We know it's a failure factor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u290	I worked a lot during my studies, and I did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u291	What is in your bill on this subject? Nothing. Yet it was easy to reduce the degree failure due to student jobs! That, Madam Minister, you finally miss out on the stakes, with these tinkering reasonings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u292	Thank you, dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u293	But Anne Brugnera said earlier: we don't sell dreams. This is unfortunate, for a world without dreams is doomed to die.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u294	I have before me two amendments, Nos 161 and 23, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 161.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u295	This amendment specifies the information that must be brought to the knowledge of the future student in order to better guide him in his wishes and in the choice of his future career. Similarly, providing the future student with the occupational integration rate according to university level and the average wage at six and twelve months, depending on the nature of the employment contract, will allow him to have an idea of his future life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u296	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u297	Students are asked for certain prerequisites, but it may also be necessary for students to wait for certain prerequisites in the field in which they wish to enrol. This is the purpose of this amendment: the student must be able to make a wish, make his choice with all the appropriate figures. The university, of course, pursues a goal of general education, but it may also ultimately aim to enable it to find work and enter the professional market. That is why we are proposing this amendment, which seems to us to be rather coherent and intelligent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u298	[[Smile]] We look forward to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u299	It can also put an end to selection by failure, as it helps to break the myth that any bachelor can register anywhere, without any problems, and have a chance to succeed. We all know here that even if this can happen, these are only rare exceptions, because for students who have first followed a certain field and then enrol in another very different, for example by choosing to do medicine after a pro baccalaureate, the rate of failure is very important. Amendment No 23 aims to give the student all the keys to understanding: it is large enough to make, at the appropriate time, an informed choice for his or her orientation if he or she is aware of what is waiting for him or her, not only during his or her training but also at the exit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u300	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u301	We come to a series of amendments to clarify the information given to high school students and bachelors about the characteristics of the training. We had this debate in committee. Overall, we agreed that we could not list this information in the bill. Indeed, it is clear that the two amendments do not propose the same. Why should such categories of information be frozen in the law when it is known that trades, such as training, are changing, and therefore the information that young people will have to be given will also have to evolve? The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable. I do not know if you have read it, I would add an excerpt from the impact statement accompanying the bill, for the record of our discussions: "Beyond the rates of transition, the rates of success at examination or diploma, the rates of employment or further education, the recruiting institutions will have to present the objectives of the training and its specificities, the organisation of the education and the structuring of the curriculum, the proposed teaching aids and the routes and bridges offered, as well as the expectations of the training. » This list seems to me to be sufficiently exhaustive. The Government, which is at the origin of this study, will make reference to it in the regulations it will take. I therefore do not think it necessary to rigidize in the law a procedure which must nevertheless remain flexible. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u302	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u303	Unfavorable. The rate of transition for all training courses, the rate of success at examination or diploma, the rate of occupational integration or continuation of studies, the organisation of teaching and the structuring of the course are being seized on the platform. Pedagogical accompaniment schemes are being built as they progress and by the time of the school year, these elements will be indicated. The expectations of training at the national level are already seized, and the institutions begin to inform the specifics of their statements of licence when there is one. All this is at the regulatory level, and I do not want to change the law whenever we want to add or remove specific information.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u304	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u305	The aim is not to rigidize, but to draw attention to the need to show students the opportunities in the field in which they want to enrol. Schools, especially large schools, approach students by indicating the amount of the salary to which they are entitled with their diplomas. In order to upgrade the university compared to the large schools, it is necessary to indicate to the students the level of salary six months or one year after the end of the training. The people I have met in my area and in my constituency, especially those who are enrolled in university, complain that these figures are very rarely found. Actually, we never have them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u306	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u307	I present my personal case, as I said. If the impact assessment and regulation could provide for this indication to be given to students, this would be a step forward, without making the law rigid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u308	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u309	For us, these amendments are marked by common sense. Far from the idea of opposing the cultural aspect and the utilitarian aspect of training, the two must of course work together, but we all know students who go a little into the adventure without knowing where they are going. We consider it a very good thing to give them a concrete indication of the opportunities of a sector. It is a useful way to direct students, who often need these advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u310	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u311	We are still trying to bring precision and clarity to future bachelors, within the framework of this national procedure of pre-registration detailed in article 1, paragraph 5. In particular, it reads as follows: "During this procedure, the characteristics of each training shall be made known to the candidates". We would like to insert the words "and educational requirements" after the word "characteristics". We would like to provide this clarification so that future students can move clearly and precisely. The teaching requirements refer in fact to the particular skills, the acquired and the prerequisites that will be expected – I repeat here words widely used during our exchanges – of future students to succeed and to thrive in the training they have chosen. It is not a question of making a list to the Prévert which would give excessive rigidity to the text and whose amendment would be difficult, but of introducing the idea of bringing to the knowledge of students, in addition to the characteristics of a training, the pedagogical requirements which are expected by higher education institutions. Our concern is to promote active and efficient orientation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u312	What is the opinion of the committee, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u313	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as for the previous amendment. I had also explained that I was responding to a series of amendments to clarify Article 1 of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u314	Not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u315	This is not the same amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u316	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u317	This clarification falls within the scope of the Regulation. I mentioned earlier the elements already seized on the platform, which include the educational requirements. In fact, the content of the training courses and the national expectations are already on the platform, and the institutions are in the process of fulfilling the specific expectations of each mention. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u318	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u319	The amendment does not bring much, as many mechanisms already exist to inform high school students and future students. So I don't see the point. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The division into semesters of education was discussed earlier. So how can your selection system based on the "yes but" work? Indeed, not all training courses have a first semester interchangeable with the second! Will people be able to graduate in the middle of a university year, because they've spent a year and a half? Or will they validate the teaching units in parallel, in catch-up? All this is not specified in your project, when we are already in December and we are talking about the next academic year! I wonder what a mess university presidents are in, with a government like that. You will explain this to your former colleagues, Madam Minister. But I'm still a little stuck on my question of university residences. Madam Minister, if you want us to finish tonight...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u320	Blackmail now!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u321	Yes, it is blackmail, I grant it to you, but it is for the good of university residences, to prevent students from living in a kind of misery and insanity that are not acceptable in the fifth world power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u322	What does this have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u323	Either you tell me you'll answer me at one o'clock in the morning and I'm starting to focus on the amendments, or you're now answering me so we can be quiet. But believe me, I won't let you out of the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u324	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u325	Mr President, I am at a minute forty-four, I do not insist on going up to two.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u326	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u327	Mrs Le Grip, the precision you are proposing to insert does not have to be included in the law, because it is the upper cycle. All the work on guidance, especially the educational requirements expected in the superior, will be carried out from the high school. The personalized accompaniment, already in place, will be deepened to prepare future students to follow their studies in the superior. At present, they are not prepared to take courses in amphitheater and to take notes. The teaching requirements must not appear in this law, but must be recalled in the circulars for secondary school. Mr Bernalicis, I too have had Tupperware meetings with students: many of them are waiting to be prepared for graduate studies from the middle year. They want to know how they will have to work in the superior. In my view, the precision of the teaching requirements does not have to be included here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u328	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u329	This amendment proposes that the platform inform each candidate, not only of the characteristics of each training, but also of the types of support and individualisation mechanisms offered by the institutions: referents for internships, tutoring, reduced number of courses, refresher courses, methodological lessons, listening and information devices or extension of the duration of the course... All this information undoubtedly contributes to the choice of a course and a school by students, whether or not they are in difficulty at school. It therefore seems important that higher education institutions, in particular universities, finally think of individualised support as an attractive factor and be able to highlight it on the platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u330	What is the opinion of the committee, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u331	We're still in the same debate. I mentioned earlier the sentence in the impact assessment of this text, which states that teaching aids will be part of the information given to high school students on the platform. We have set a framework that excludes listing in the law. As I opposed the opposition, I must do the same for the majority, so as not to be accused of bias.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u332	We wouldn't dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u333	I ask you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Mörch, because the impact assessment satisfies him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u334	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u335	Come on, minister, a little effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u336	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Apart from the fact that I am completely insensitive to blackmail – you can inquire – the same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u337	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u338	All these amendments show that the Government does not want to overburden the law, which is why it is absolutely right – we have been enough on these benches to say that the law should not be talkative or too rigid – but also that the impact assessment is not complete. There was no answer to the question I was asking earlier about salaries at the end of the training courses. You seemed to agree with me, Mr rapporteur, but you did not say whether this element would be included in the regulations and passed on to the students at the time of their registration. I understand that some things should not be included in the law in order not to make it rigid, but can you tell us whether or not the details requested by these amendments will be included in the regulations you intend to take following the vote on this text? This would make it possible to adopt a coherent voting logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u339	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u340	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u341	Madam Minister, you're talking about blackmail. I am talking about insensitivity to a serious and proven situation, experienced by more than a thousand students who reside in university rooms to be renovated. If you don't want to come and see this situation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u342	She doesn't want to!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u343	... then offer at least the means to all the CROUS, not only to the one of Lille, to eradicate it, it is intolerable! There is no ventilation in the rooms, there is mould in the showers, there are cockroaches – their presence for several years is not entirely the fault of the CROUS, but is also due to geographical location – and other harmful ones. Students live in this situation! How can we talk to them about university success when they fight the cockroaches in the evening in their room, protect themselves from the various harmful ones, and they squire their doors to avoid the cold air current of the corridor, and so much for condensation on their window? You call it decent student living conditions? They are unworthy, indecent and unsanitary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u344	This is not just about students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u345	I want you to come and see this with me in Lille, because this situation deserves your full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u346	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u347	This amendment concerns a subject that we are going to discuss for some time. It aims to clarify and clarify the information that must be made available to candidates. Far from the idea of rigidizing or overburdening the law. However, since we are legislators, we may well write the law without feeling totally opposed to the idea of adding any sentence or mention to a text that must provide clarification and information. It is also specific to the normative nature of the law, which goes much further than an impact assessment or exchanges within a Chamber. We would therefore like to add to the paragraph the publication of success rates according to the series and the mentions in the baccalaureate, as it remains the most objective and transparent way for bachelors to measure their ability to succeed in the academic fields they aim for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u349	The opinion is unfavourable, for the same reasons as before, because the amendment concerns the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u351	I will simply clarify the average wages, since the question has been asked. I am not convinced that the median salary is required in the surveys carried out by the Observatory of Student Life among graduates; For those who graduate from the master's degree maybe, for those who graduate from the general license I'm not sure. This could be added, but you will understand that it cannot be included in the law, because these investigations are bound to evolve. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. On the other hand, this will be clarified at the regulatory level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u352	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u353	This amendment points your finger at your logic: of course, there will not really be any selection, but students will be strongly encouraged to go to a given field, once they have been shown that after this and this stage, it is in this one that they will have the best success rate! And that we have added that if they go elsewhere, it will be at their own risk, and with additional teaching units – in parallel to the semester, or before, or after, we still don't know at this stage of the reform... Yet, it is an essential element for high school students who will enter the university next year! Obviously, that is not the concern of the majority of this House, and that is very regrettable. It is all the more so since many students will end up in an unsanitary university residence! It's still a shame, in the fifth power of the world, in 2017! Some residences are in the same condition...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u354	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u355	Mr President, my two-minute speaking time has not expired! I'm asking for a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u356	Yes, Mr. Bernalicis. On the basis of what article?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u357	Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. For the proper conduct of our debates, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to display the chronometer rather than cut me off before the end of the two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u358	Mr Bernalicis, it seems to me that you do not have to blush in your speaking time this evening, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u359	Is there a regulation in this House or not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u360	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u361	This amendment, which is in keeping with the previous ones, aims to provide the student and his/her family and the teaching staff with all the information necessary to assist each of the stakeholders in the construction of the candidate's orientation wishes. With about 15% of an out-of-grading age group, more than 50% of those with a jobless professional qualification six months after graduation, and only 30% of students who graduate in three years, and at the same time with firms struggling to recruit, it is clear how important the quality of school guidance is, as it is an essential element in combating youth unemployment. The quality of the guidance depends closely on the level of information of the protagonists, because even if the trades evolve very quickly, know the opportunities of a training course, the possible continuation of studies, the student's integration rate, the occupations to which it prepares, but also the level of requirement of an institution, its reception capacity, the rate of applicants having integrated the course the previous year and its success rates in the exams are valuable information which must be brought to the knowledge of the candidate so that he can make the most informed choice possible. Nevertheless, the Pathup platform should not be intended to provide comprehensive coverage of all activities related to the guidance process. Indeed, guidance covers two distinct activities: assisting individuals in choosing their school future, on the one hand, and the distribution process, on the other. The tools of ONISEP – the National Information Office on Teachings and Professions – put at the service of the educational community will have to help young people gradually build their personal project by integrating the characteristics defined by the higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u363	Mrs. Carrière, you express legitimate concerns, and you do so with conviction. However, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment for the same reasons as for the previous amendments: all these elements have been taken into account and will be specified in the regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u365	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u366	Mrs Carrière, is your amendment retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u367	No, I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u368	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u369	For two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u370	It will take me no less than two minutes, Mr. Chairman, because I would like to go back to the definition of the word "selection", which scares so many people. Selection: sort, choose, distinguish, eliminate, delay; If necessary, reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u371	Could you give us the list again?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u372	You have to speak words as they are! If I sign up for a training course and I'm told "yes but", we make a selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u373	It's "yes if"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u374	"Yes, yes," it means we're selecting, we're choosing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u375	There will also be "no"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u376	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u377	There will be no "no"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u378	Please let Mrs. Rubin speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u379	Yes, because the seconds run! If I don't want to do the upgrade, I'm excluded, not selected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u380	It's the pleasure of failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u381	If I refuse to participate in this famous module, I can't go to college. I come to my amendment: it aims, as proposed by the Government, to improve the support and success of students – except that the choice of whether or not to benefit from the educational accompaniment arrangements for training does not condition admission to university. This remains a choice. Young people may be encouraged either by their high school teachers or by those of the training which welcomes them, but the student's enrolment must not be conditioned in any way. This is why we propose to write that the student "can benefit, if he wishes" from the accompanying arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u382	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u383	He's unfavorable, Mrs. Rubin. One of the main thrusts of the reform is to say "yes" and not "yes" but. In other words, a number of expectations are set for success within a sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u384	Say "yes" all of a sudden!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u385	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Once again, it seems strange to me to cast doubt, suspicion about universities, the academic system and teachers, as if the aim of university presidents was to get as few students as possible and to see them fail! That's a very pessimistic vision. The goal is to make students succeed. Bachelors who do not fulfil the expectations necessary to succeed in a field can therefore enrol in it provided they agree to embark on a course of teaching support for this purpose. The goal is to succeed: you can't be against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u386	For my part, I am for good and against evil!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u387	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u388	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u389	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u390	I thought the baccalaureate was enough to allow access to higher education... So we'd have to go over the whole bachelor's degree? I recall what I said earlier: non-success, failure is a criterion that has existed since 1968. There are probably some of you who have successfully completed their academic career without having to take part in refresher courses? Well now they become mandatory. So there is a form of selection, sorry to use this word, or a sort if you prefer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u391	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u392	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u393	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr. Attal is talking about suspicion. I have the feeling that with this bill, it is more about students. The question is not whether the rejection of some university students is done by desire or exclusion: today there is the autonomy of universities. Telling his life or experience is not always welcome, but I have had to undergo the LMD reform. At the time, my training director had to justify the success rate of her master 2 in order to obtain funding: she would therefore recruit master 1 or general bachelor's students from the major schools to promote this master. That is what I fear, the influence of funding problems and success rates, much more than a reproductive exclusion of social inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u394	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u395	This amendment is in fact drafting, since it is intended to replace "academic authority" with "competent authority". The reason for this is simple: private schools under contract with the State are intended to participate in the reception of students without a proposal at the end of the procedure. In these institutions, however, registration can only be pronounced by the head of the institution, not by the academic authority. This would allow for an inclusive approach: either the academic authority or the head of the private institution under contract would decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u397	Mr Hetzel, your concern is legitimate. It seems to me that Mrs Le Grip expressed it in committee. We debated it, but the amendment was withdrawn because we had to work on it again. Of course, the specificities of private education must be taken into account and included in the law. To this end, the Government has tabled an amendment No. 256, which will come to the end of the discussion on the article and which takes these specificities into account in a comprehensive manner. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment for the benefit of the broader Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u398	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u399	Amendment No 256 brings together a number of provisions relating to private education. The current wording of the bill is based on the fact that freedom of education cannot be contradicted, which is a constitutional principle. The Education Code thus applies to all courses offered by public institutions, but not to those of private education. The issue of private institutions was therefore addressed in this amendment. I therefore invite you to withdraw yours for the benefit of this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u400	Is your amendment retained, Mr Hetzel?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u401	I will make two remarks. I have, of course, taken note of this government amendment, and I therefore withdraw mine. However, I would like to have the floor to make a methodological remark as well. We have a real problem in the National Assembly, and this is not your only amendment, Madam Minister, but more generally the way we operate. I would like to inform our colleagues that having access to an amendment by the Government currently requires that it be validated in the National Assembly's computer system. By comparison, in the Senate, an amendment by the Government is available immediately, not just to senators but also to deputies and any citizen. It is simply marked "under review". I would like to see our computer system evolve sooner or later so that it guarantees equal treatment for all members of this House by giving them access to government amendments as soon as they are tabled, as is the case in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u402	He's right! We must do as well as senators!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u403	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u404	Thank you for that clarification, Mr Hetzel, which will undoubtedly be the subject of reflection in the context of the reform of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u405	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u406	It was intended to supplement not paragraph 5 of the text, as indicated, but paragraph 6, since the paragraph of the original text had been separated into two separate subparagraphs. I propose to give special attention to the mastery of the French language within the teaching aids. Indeed, all university presidents warn about a growing and very worrying loss of mastery of the French language. However, there is no training in which mastery of the French language is not important, both literary and scientific. In support of my demonstration, I will cite an example that demonstrates what is problematic in understanding the statements. In the sentence "The vulpine race is the main vector of rabies, which preys on everything", what part do you, ladies and gentlemen, pose a problem of understanding to students and students? Neither the "vulpine race" nor the "vector" are terms they know: it is the literary expression "doing its prey on everything"! This is evidence that failure to master the French language constitutes a major obstacle to the understanding of statements, including scientific statements. Moreover, the recent survey on the level of mastery of pupils' reading shows that this problem is obvious and that its resolution is crucial, from primary school to university.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u407	It's crochignolesque.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u408	If I understand correctly, Mrs Genevard, Amendment No 3 concerns paragraph 6 of the article?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u409	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u410	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u411	You are referring to this issue of sensitivity to French language proficiency far beyond the scope of the bill, my dear colleague: this is one of your battles in this House, which you have recently mentioned in a question-and-answer session to the Government. We are, of course, all in agreement here on this point. The Constitution stipulates that "The language of the Republic is French". Care must be taken, both at school and in higher education, to ensure that all young people in this country have a command of the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u412	That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u413	We have dealt with this debate in committee, but you have not been able to defend this amendment yourself, because you were presiding over the sitting. We chose not to specify in the law the nature of the teaching aids, in order not to rigidize the text. In addition, national expectations of higher education courses have since been published. Most of them state clearly the need to master the French language or at least to have written skills to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u414	No! We checked!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u415	That is the answer I can give. I will let the minister complete it. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment, dear colleague, although I agree with the concern that you have consistently expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u416	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u417	In researching the general principles of the Education Code, article L. 121-3 states that "the mastery of the French language and the knowledge of two other languages are among the fundamental objectives of teaching". The provisions you propose are therefore already included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u418	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u419	The two answers that have just been given are different. The rapporteur tells us that it has been decided not to specify what is expected in the text of the law and that they are the subject of a supplementary document. It was published today and we quickly became aware of it. We have found that mastery of the French language is, for example, one of the prerequisites for enrollment in law and public administration. All right! It's consistent. On the other hand, they are not mentioned for registration in economics or political science. Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u420	Because the law provides for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u421	This is our first question. For your part, Madam Minister, you are replying that these provisions are already in the legislation. But then, why is it necessary to remind them in the expected? And if it is necessary to remind them in some of them, why not remind them in the law, which mentions the necessary skills and teaching aids? Language is not a knowledge like any other: it is a fundamental and transversal prerequisite. It is fragile enough today not to be subject to at least redundancy. Why not? Perhaps you have decided to reject all our amendments. This is the path you seem to be taking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u422	That's not true! You found it in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u423	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, this is the case when almost all legislation is reviewed. It is not only incomprehensible but deeply shocking to show the same closeness of mind about this amendment, I do not hesitate to say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u424	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u425	With regard to the occupational integration rates mentioned earlier, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that all higher education institutions, particularly universities, publish their success rates and their occupational integration rates online. All of this has been in existence for a long time. Some of us even interviewed representatives of the university conference of specialists in the orientation and professional integration of students. Perhaps we should remember it, or think about attending the hearings of the committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u426	Incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u427	As for the provisions you are proposing, Ms Genevard, the minister said that they are already mentioned in the Education Code. I would add that they are part of the practice. Universities already offer courses in methodology as well as written and oral expression – EEO – for first-year students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u428	It's not about methodology!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u429	These are strengthening courses. And the reinforcement will also take place within the framework of the pedagogical support mechanisms. Maybe it's not useful to add more! When these latter devices are defined, according to the profiles of the students, we will be able, within the university system – I trust my colleagues – to detect the needs and organize the teaching accompaniment. If I take the floor now, I think, after all I've heard tonight, my university colleagues need to worry a little bit about what you think of them. They know how to adapt, they know how to adapt; They know the students very well. The purpose of this bill is to enable them to better accompany them. In this regard, the introduction of a second senior teacher in the senior class is also very important. This will help future students to learn about the success and professional integration rates of higher education institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The Student Plan and this text are intended to strengthen student support. So be a little more positive, ladies and gentlemen, even if it is late! I find that we do not always give a very interesting picture of our university colleagues and of secondary education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u430	I have before me two amendments, Nos 10 and 11, which can be presented together. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u431	They are both the result of the opinion of the Council of State on the text proposed by the Government. Amendment No. 10 is intended to supplement paragraph 5 with the following sentence: "These arrangements take account of the candidate's training and skills, as well as the characteristics of the training in which he or she wishes to enrol". Amendment No 11 also aims to achieve a clearer wording, stating that if an institution has proposed a personalized accompanying arrangement to a student, any refusal to accept it is ipso facto tantamount to a refusal to register in that institution. This is the subject of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u432	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u433	The committee gives an unfavourable opinion on these two amendments, which have already been debated in committee. There is no doubt here that the Council of State's contribution to the study of the draft bill is very positive. In fact, some of the comments made by the Government were reflected in the draft law in the form of amendments subsequently adopted in committee. I do not see what Amendment No 10 adds. Indeed, the sixth paragraph of the article already mentions "the knowledge of the applicant's previous training and his/her skills". Amendment No 11 deals with the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u434	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u435	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u436	Amendment No 10 is intended to insert a sentence to reformulate the sixth paragraph of the article. He can be considered to be satisfied. As for Amendment No 11, honourable Member, point 9 of the opinion of the Council of State states that the text is very clear as it stands. I don't know why you read anything else! In any event, it is not necessary to rewrite this paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u437	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u438	I did not understand who was speaking to Mr Fugit; I understand, on the other hand, what he said about university teachers. No one questions their involvement or the day-to-day accompaniment of the students they undertake, on the contrary! Since we're talking about it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u439	Mrs Obono, you are very interested in the amendments that we are considering, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u440	[[Laughs]] Of course, Mr. President! I am referring very much to the debate we are dealing with, and in particular to the resources allocated to higher education. Because in terms of workload, teachers, not just teachers, but also TD staff, precarious people and individual contractors would have a lot to say, which we would have to answer. We could have done so in the budget debate, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u441	I'd like to discuss it, I know the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u442	It is therefore not a question of a lack of confidence in teachers, on the contrary: let them afford the means to truly accompany students by hiring, and by ceasing to discriminate against the staff of higher education!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u443	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u444	We will then have assured the university staff of our confidence. You, the minister, on the contrary, assign them an additional workload without the means that go with it. This will worsen the lack of vocation of higher education personnel as well as their precariousness. On the contrary, you will succeed in what you claim to be aimed at.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u445	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u446	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, in support of Amendment No. 110, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u447	We ask for the deletion of paragraph 6, which refers to the famous "yes if". Because of the anteriority of their training or skills, a bachelor may be denied direct access to the university. First, the conditions under which these criteria will be assessed do not seem acceptable to us. Secondly, trade union organisations have largely expressed their concern about this "yes if" in that it introduces the selection at the university. No matter what adjectives you seem to want to find to qualify this selection – expected, characteristics... – the bachelors will no longer choose their assignment, but it is the university that will choose its students. Finally, this reform will lead to a considerable amount of additional work and universities will find it difficult to fulfil this task. While already understaffed, it will take thousands of jobs to manage this selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u448	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u449	We have already discussed this on the occasion of Mrs Rubin's amendment, and we are not going to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u450	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u451	This reform is intended to make it possible for all students to succeed, so to offer them pedagogical support when they do not respect the expectations necessary to succeed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u452	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u453	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I recall that the "yes if" is a proposal for teaching support, not a punishment. It is not a question of imposing hours of glue on students or forcing them to copy fifty times of multiplication tables, but of saying that we welcome them willingly, that we recognize their motivations and that we will accompany them in their success. Once again, no license will answer "no".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u454	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u455	I remind our colleague that the "yes if" will be about a wish that the high school student himself will have made! For us, "yes if" is an innovation. It is thanks to this that the bachelors will be able to follow the course of their choice, but being accompanied so that they can succeed. Refusing the "yes if" would precipitate high school students from the most fragile social classes, strongly represented in professional baccalaureates, towards a failure rate of 99%, which would be an aberration in itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u456	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u457	I like the formula used by Joaquim Pueyo, which sums up very well the spirit of this law: it is the universities that will choose their students, not the students who will choose their university.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u458	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u459	On the other hand, I am surprised that the diploma of the baccalaureate cannot guarantee the qualities chosen, such as the ease in the French language referred to earlier. Might as well challenge all the fundamentals! And besides, you who are a former teacher, Madam Minister, do you think that a young person who does not have the prerequisites in French will be able to acquire them in a module? Do you think that the written expression skills are acquired in one semester, whereas the national education should have dealt with them in the previous ten years?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u460	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u461	This amendment has two objectives: to adapt the staff of a training course to its reception capacity and to restore meritocracy. It is therefore first of all to restore the hierarchy of choices, which existed with APB and which seems to disappear with this new system, and then to take into account the results of the baccalaureate. This amendment thus links with the reform prepared by the Minister of National Education. It involves changing the current schedule, in which assignment results fall during the baccalaureate exams, which can lead to significant anxiety. It is therefore a matter of ensuring greater coherence and a better meritocracy within universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u462	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u463	Unfavorable opinion, as this amendment restores the hierarchy of wishes. It does not have its place in the law, as the way in which students make their choice is not specified in the text. As far as the calendar is concerned, the results of APB fall exactly during the baccalaureate exams. The aim is to ensure that the new platform does not cause such anxiety. I recall that non-hierarchization will allow students to choose from several positive answers, which is a real progress compared to APB.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u464	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u465	Prioritization or non-hierarchization of vows is not a matter of law. I would also like to point out that if we abandon the hierarchy of vows, it seems to us that it is very complicated for a bachelor to know whether he prefers a history license with a refresher or a geography license. He cannot know it a priori and must be able to choose what he prefers a posteriori, knowing the conditions under which he will have access to each of these licences.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u466	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u467	This amendment may be clearer and more precise than the Government's project, which will produce the same results. It was understood that the "yes if" is a "yes if, but still." So would the "no" be a "yes"? I don't understand it anymore: if there is no more "no", we will never be refused, to any of his wishes? If that's the case, it's great news for tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u468	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u469	[["Ah! »on the benches of the REM group]] And does "yes if" involve access to a good quality university residence at a reasonable price? It might be interesting to allow a student to say "I accept this training if I am provided with a room in a good quality university residence, close to my place of study, so that I can study in good conditions, it will be a criterion for my success"! I find it a pity, minister, that you are not providing any response to this request this evening, and probably never, in anticipation of the coming days. This will be communicated to students in good form.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u470	We understand the maneuver!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u471	Of course! I would like to ask the minister about something that concerns her directly: he is happy that I can do it, it is my role as a parliamentarian! Except she doesn't answer me: is it her role as minister to not answer me and to say that I'm blackmailing? The blackmail you are doing, Madam Minister, is for all students housed in rooms of misery, without any other solution. The social environment, the work of the students, the housing, the restoration are absent from this bill, which is a real selection text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u472	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis, you just spoke for two minutes. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u473	Can the debates be held in good standing at one late hour? Can we avoid blackmailing the minister at a late hour? Can we, when we have the floor, speak at a late hour on the amendment under discussion? Can we afford decent debates at a late hour? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You keep talking about dignity when you talk about university residences, my dear colleague. You are not worthy in the way you defend your positions and in the way you question the minister and the parliamentarians present, who have worked on the text, which is probably not your case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u474	I didn't work on the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u475	Let her talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u476	As for the question of means, perhaps you do not know that 500 million euros are foreseen over five years for higher education, 450 million euros in the investment plan? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] If parliamentary work, Mr Bernalicis, is limited to tabling the deletion amendment on the deletion amendment, to multiplying the speeches just to blackmail the minister, then you are a formidable parliamentarian! But I'm not sure it's up to our debate tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u477	She didn't say anything about the amendment, Mr President, why don't you tell him?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u478	Thank you for the energy you have shown this evening, Mr Bernalicis, but the rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u479	What is difficult with your speeches, M.P., and sometimes unbearable, is the tone you are using, whether it is with respect to the minister or your colleagues. You cannot use such a tone, give the feeling of blackmailing, exert such pressure, with words that sometimes frieze violence. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] On the other hand, the issues that you are addressing have been raised in committee. The minister specifically answered the questions you were asking. Perhaps you should communicate better in your group? But I note that your two colleagues who are members of our committee are no longer among us...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u480	On the subject of presence, others broke their teeth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u481	I hope it doesn't say too much about your group's interest in this text. But if these Members were still with us at this late hour, like the overwhelming majority of this House, they would confirm to you that this has been mentioned in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u482	Mr. Attal, that kind of answer is really pathetic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u483	Where were you, Mr. Rapporteur, during the examination of the orders?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u484	It's a collective challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u485	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1095.u486	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further to the discussion of the Student Orientation and Success Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
