ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft enabling legislation to be adopted by ordinances measures for the strengthening of social dialogue (No. 4, 19, 18). Before giving the floor to the Minister of Labour, I would like to make an update on the procedure for voting by public ballot, which could be used in this or in a future debate. This must be requested by the group presidents or by the representatives appointed by them. I will recall the procedure when such elections are held, so that everyone has the time not only to return to his or her place, but also to open the small valve above the three buttons: "for", "against", and "abstention".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u2	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u3	Of course, you only have to press one of these three buttons during the time when the vote is open. The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u4	Mr President, I wanted to make a point of order before you gave the floor to the minister, but nobody seems to be looking on our side of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u5	I am, of course, looking at all the benches in this House, my dear colleague, but I think we can begin the discussion of the bill unless you wish to make a point of order on the conduct of this sitting. Everyone will have the floor during the debate, according to the rules laid down.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u6	There's no settlement!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u7	If you wish to make a point of order now, I give you the floor, Mr Lecoq, but please specify the rule on which it relates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u8	It is based on the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Regulation. I am not as novice as this in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u9	You certainly sat there for a term of office.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u10	You have not escaped that the conditions for the examination of this text and the conduct of the meeting are unprecedented and unacceptable. The Government would have wished to prevent the legislator from intervening on this text that it would not have done otherwise. Our committee concluded its consideration of the text on Thursday, 6 July, at the end of the morning. It was put online at 15.00 on the same day for a deadline for tabling amendments on Friday 7 July at 17.00: Members will have had barely more than 24 hours to read the committee's text and exercise their right of amendment! These deadlines were so crazy that the committee published its report well after the deadline for tabling amendments on 7 July at 22:10. And what about the lack of time devoted to social consultation? The unions denounced him in committee. Rule 86 of our Rules of Procedure provides that the time limit between making available electronically and the text adopted by the committee and the beginning of its consideration in the sitting may not be less than seven days – a tight but acceptable time limit. When the accelerated procedure is initiated, as in the case of this text, the text must be made available "as soon as possible". There is no doubt that this condition has not been met. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The Government wants to do so quickly, very quickly, that it made this weekend an announcement on penitibility. What are we serving here, ladies and gentlemen? He wants his empowerment in the heart of the summer to make popular mobilization impossible. This haste, which leads to disdainful treatment of the constitutional requirement to guarantee the effective nature of the right of amendment, reflects the Government's disdain for the first victims of your reform: the workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u11	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u12	Mr President, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, the Government spokesman, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "The only limit in the achievement of our achievements of tomorrow lies in our doubts today," said Franklin Roosevelt. It is with this ambition that I have the honour to defend before the national representative, on behalf of the Government, the first part of a vast project to renovate our social model. Renovation does not mean a clean table of the past. Nor does this mean copying a foreign model, to translate it into the same way. Renovating is adapting to carry on, to bring about a legacy that we hold dear. We know where our social model comes from: it is the fruit of decades of progress, conquests, struggles, sometimes. At the beginning of the 19th century, the Villermé report, a major survey of the living conditions of the working class, culminated in the first laws governing child labour. Later, the Popular Front, the National Council of the Resistance or the agreements signed by Grenelle in 1968 in the ministry that I have the honour to occupy, helped shape our labour code by bringing new rights to employees. The French are attached to these rights, because our social model draws from the spirit of the Enlightenment two aspirations as strong as each other: the aspiration to equality and the aspiration to freedom, both of which are the basis of fraternity. In other words, the values that underlie our social model remain a solid foundation on which to build the future. This model, however, can we afford not to make it evolve, in a rapidly changing world and in the social context of the country? Let us be fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the tremendous opportunities, but also of the real risks posed by the internationalisation of the economy, the technological revolution, present and, above all, future, the ecological challenge and the new expectations expressed by young people and employees. Let us also have the courage to recognize the failures that are collectively ours. Where is equality with regard to employment, when youth unemployment reaches 25%, and up to 50% in some neighbourhoods? Where is the freedom to choose one's life when fixed-term contracts – CSD – are chained and access to housing or credit is prohibited? What does emancipation mean if work becomes a source of boredom, stress or ill-being? Renovating the French social model means, therefore, ensuring that it produces more equality and more freedom in the world to come. That is how we will look to the future, while remaining faithful to our history and our values. To do so, we need to face three challenges. The first challenge is to give our companies freedom to adapt to changes in the economy and to anticipate them successfully. The second challenge is to give employees new protections to better build their working lives. The third challenge is to give more meaning to the work itself, even as the attachment to the collective weakens in our society: work is not only a source of financial autonomy, it is also a source of meaning and social bond, thus contributing to the social identity of everyone. The orders you are proposed to authorize today by this enabling bill will not alone address these essential challenges. However, they are part of a comprehensive and coherent vision of the renovation of the social model presented by the Government and the Prime Minister, which includes the reform of unemployment insurance and vocational training, the reform of apprenticeship, which I will defend jointly with the Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, and the reform of pensions, which will be defended by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn. They are also linked with the Government's efforts to reduce labour costs, lower taxes and support purchasing power. It is this vision that I wish to present to you. The first challenge, the first urgency, is to give freedom of initiative and to undertake our companies to enable them, through negotiation, through social dialogue, to adapt to changes in the economy and to create jobs in France. To create wealth and jobs, businesses need to be able to adapt quickly. Today, however, we know that many of them fail to do so. The work of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD, among many others, shows that many enterprises do not easily or rapidly integrate innovations, new forms of distribution, new technologies, new consumption patterns or the revolution in usage. Often, the complexity of the labour code does not allow them to be sufficiently agile and innovative, including at the social level. This is why our companies need more flexibility and freedom: the freedom to reorganise quickly to conquer markets and create jobs; freedom to negotiate standards adapted to the needs of the company and employees; freedom to invest in social dialogue to combine economic performance with social performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u13	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u14	This is where the necessary reform of the Labour Code takes place. What's the problem? To put it simply, our labour law suffers from a double handicap. First of all, it has gradually become unsuitable for the economy of our time, not in its principles, but in its most precise details. It was designed – and is understandable – on the model of lifetime employment in the large industrial enterprise. It has been thought of for decades for this type of enterprise, but everyone knows that today it is more the very small enterprises – TPE –, the small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – and the young innovative enterprises that are developing and creating jobs. It should be noted that 55% of the 18 million employees in the private sector work in companies with less than fifty employees. The second handicap is that labour law is sometimes inadequate to meet the expectations of companies, but also of employees. The law is often shifted from the current reality of what employees and entrepreneurs are experiencing. It too often neglects the ability of an employer and its employees to find the best compromise at their level, to the benefit of their respective interests. For example, telework today corresponds both to an aspiration of a large number of employees and to the need for flexibility of companies, but it is not in conformity with a part of the right to work, based entirely on the assumption of a collective and unique workplace. So, what do we want to do? In a word, we want to bring more freedom and protection to both businesses and employees. This requires three complementary developments. First, we want companies and employees to decide more about the rules that apply to them. Today, the majority of rules fall from the top, from the law or from the branch, which shows the appearance of equality, while in reality it creates a lot of rigidity and formalism and many rules that are not applicable everywhere and, above all, that do not adapt well to the diversity of sizes of companies or sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u15	It protects too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u16	What is needed is, without denying any of the fundamental rights laid down by law, to loosen the scope of the detailed standard and to allow companies and employees to negotiate the rules that correspond to them. Contrary to what is often believed, excess standards do not protect well, on the contrary. Complexity undermines everyone's understanding of the law and limits access to the real right. Taking into account the diversity of concrete situations, it is not less legal but "better" legal. Let us take an example: branches often provide a very precise range of bonuses – seniority, meals, attendance, holidays – for hundreds of thousands of companies. However, these premiums apply everywhere in the same way, regardless of the situation of the company or the expectations of the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u17	That would be true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u18	Would it not be fairer and more efficient to let companies and employees together decide the right criteria for paying premiums, depending on the situation of their company?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u19	Or to remove the bonuses!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] For example, would the young employees of a recent SME not prefer a strengthened mutual fund or childcare aid rather than a seniority premium?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u21	And why not both!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u22	What about TPEs and SMEs?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u23	But I say again, the law is and will remain, it is the Constitution that guarantees it, the framework within which industry and enterprise negotiations will unfold. We want to refer more to the company and encourage negotiation to find the best compromises near the field, while guaranteeing the role of the law in fundamental rights, such as the rights to training and unemployment insurance, equality between women and men or the prohibition of discrimination or harassment. Similarly, the fundamental rules on business life, such as the need for staff representation or health and safety standards, will obviously not be negotiable. The industry will continue to play an important role, but this role will be even more important, especially given the very large number of very small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. The branch has a major role in classifications, social minima or pooling of training or foresight funds. But we will ask him to also take into account the specificities of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not always sufficiently so in the negotiated branch agreements or at national level. We will have a pragmatic approach: we must negotiate each subject at the most relevant level within the precise and clear framework laid down by law. This issue is essential to the preservation and development of our jobs. It is by allowing companies to adapt their rules to cope, for example, with a rapid increase or decrease in their activity, by widening the scope of negotiations, by giving more grain to grind and by pragmatically framing the freedom to negotiate, that protection for employees will be created and more space for initiative and visibility for businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u24	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u25	Secondly, and this is the second axis we want to develop, we must allow negotiation and, more broadly, social dialogue to be simpler and more effective in the company. There would be no point in giving companies more room for manoeuvre and more grain to grind if they and their employees could not use them. Today we have a very complex system since four different bodies represent employees. We are one of the only countries in the world to have such complexity. If employees and their representatives are to have an overall strategic vision that will enable them to influence the future of the company, the social dialogue must be simplified by reducing the number of bodies involved. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] We propose to merge three – the three information and consultation – or even four by company agreement under certain conditions, in order to create a forum for social dialogue that is clearly identifiable by employees and which allows us to share a global view of economic and social issues. What we could call the strengthening of social and economic dialogue is in the interests of companies and employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u26	You mustn't take the employees for fools!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u27	It's George Orwell talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u28	Whether it is cases of merger or psycho-social risks, understanding both the economic and social dimensions will foster a social dialogue of greater quality and scope. In the TPEs and SMEs – this is a key feature of this reform – we need to find an operational solution. It is not simple, because today, after several decades of effort and the adoption of many texts, there is no structured social dialogue in TPEs and SMEs with only 4% of trade union delegates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u29	It's so risky!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u30	The system doesn't work. How can I do that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u31	Union delegates need to be better protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u32	All companies must be given this freedom to create, not unilaterally, but through effective negotiation, the norm that best meets their needs and those of their employees. The third project is the legal security of labour relations. It is an integral part of the renovation of our social model, because there is no sustainable social model based on uncertain and therefore anxiogenic rules. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on a few benches of the LC group. – Exclaims on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Today, however, many rules are uncertain, first and foremost for companies, which do not know the rules of the game perfectly in advance when they want to reorganise, reduce their staff or take initiatives. This abundance of somewhat blurred rules may give the impression of being a protective system for employees, whereas it is often the opposite, as this uncertainty leads to a reduction in hiring, particularly in TPEs and SMEs. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in France more than one dismissal in five ends in litigation, and that 60% of disputes go on appeal, for lack of clear rules? Do you know that we can be sentenced to the prud'hommes for having wrongly drafted a letter of dismissal, even though the substantive reasons that are put forward are valid in law?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u33	It's true, why write a letter?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u34	There are rules in France that are incomprehensible to SMEs – it is the experience that speaks –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u35	Yes, let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u36	...as in the case of foreign countries, and which are hindering investment in our country. This situation needs to be addressed pragmatically, by protecting the rights of employees and encouraging hiring. Several rules are also uncertain for employees. For example, before the workers, for the same damage and with the same seniority, an employee may be awarded damages ranging from one to five depending on the counsel before whom the case is brought. Is such uncertainty justice for both businesses and employees? It discourages many small businesses from engaging in hiring or transforming CSDs into CDI, while CDI remains the objective. We must find a solution for employment, equity and legal certainty for employers and employees. The second challenge, the second entirely complementary urgency of the first, is to give employees new protections to build their working lives. A French employee in CDI is less likely to lose his job than a Danish employee, because the job is better protected at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u37	That's what it's for!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u38	However, when questioned, French employees are far more likely than Danish employees to be afraid of losing their jobs. The explanation is simple: in France, when we find ourselves unemployed, we usually stay there longer than elsewhere, which nourishes the fear and anxiety of decommissioning, even among those who have CDI. Not all workers are, of course, equal: it is always the least educated and the least qualified who face the greatest difficulties. I would remind you that the unemployment rate is 18% for the least qualified, compared with 5% for the second grade, not to mention large territorial inequalities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] This problem has deep roots and school reform will contribute in the long term to better equality. But we must give today's assets new protections. For the first of the precarious is unemployment, the first of the protections is competence, and the lever of success is training. Internationalisation and new technologies have made the labour market more demanding and uncertain. According to OECD studies and many other studies, about 10% of jobs are threatened with extinction within ten years by automation of tasks that robotization or digital technology will allow, at least as much will be created – probably much more – and 50% will be profoundly transformed. The challenge of a massive plan to develop the skills of young people, jobseekers and the workforce as a whole is therefore raised. This is the objective of the skills investment plan and the reform of vocational training which we intend to carry out in the coming months. With regard to the reform of vocational training, I will have the honour to present a text to you in a short time. This topic is essential for the assets to be actors in their own professional development and not just to undergo these changes. The reform of vocational training will be in line with existing ones, while strengthening individual rights to training. This individual-centred logic must also inform the reform of unemployment insurance. If, as announced during the campaign for the presidential election, we want to open unemployment insurance to resignations under certain conditions as well as to the self-employed, in order to accompany them and secure them in their choice to change their career, it is because today, and even more so tomorrow, everyone will be able to have several statutes during his or her professional life – employee, entrepreneur, independent. It is therefore necessary to evolve in all areas from statutory protection to transportable protection of the person by giving more rights to create more equality and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the ultimate goal that we are pursuing through all these reforms of the social model, starting with the first part of the labour code, is to restore meaning to work. We do this by rehabilitating the individual and collective initiative, and by building on a strengthened social and economic dialogue, which must be placed at the heart of our social model and the business model. But, in order to restore meaning to work, it is necessary to consider the enterprise not only as a systematic place of conflict, but also as a human community, at the service of an objective of economic and social progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u39	Go tell that to the shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u40	It is for this reason that we believe in social dialogue, closer to the ground in industries and enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u41	The rights of employees must be respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u42	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Employees, who are major, responsible and informed persons, can discuss and establish the details of the standards that run their daily lives under the law within companies. Many of our fellow citizens are worried about the world's upheavals and fear more for their lives at work today than they see opportunities there. Yet other countries have managed to reduce unemployment without sacrificing the well-being of their employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u43	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u44	Go tell PSA!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u45	And Lafarge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u46	The path that we offer to companies and employees in our country is to give both more freedom and more protection, by building on an ambitious social and economic dialogue. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] In The Condition of Modern Man, Hannah Arendt wrote: "Power springs among men when they act together. To collectively project ourselves into the future, we rely on the collective intelligence of entrepreneurs and employees. We are betting on French trust, intelligence and creativity and on our ability to collectively invent ourselves, in companies and in industries, with new freedoms and protections, to extend together the great history of our social model that we are so proud of and want to pursue, but that we also need to renew for ourselves and our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u47	Mr Pietraszewski, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering today is designed to empower the Government to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue. This text is the first step towards an in-depth renovation of the rules governing employees, companies and social dialogue players in our country. The main thrusts of this reform, as well as the method chosen – ordinances and consultation with the social partners – were announced during the campaign of the President of the Republic. I often hear, these days, concerns about the use of ordinances to reform the labour code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u49	Not just worries!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u50	Justifiable concerns!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u51	I want to reassure each and every one of you on this point...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u52	It's gonna be hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u53	[[Exclaims on the benches of the FI, GDR and NG groups as well as on a few benches of the LR group. –Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ...for Parliament is fully involved in the drafting of this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u54	We weren't invited to the seminar!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u55	[[Protests on the benches of the FI Group as well as some non-attached Members]] This enabling bill is the first step. The challenge at this stage is to define the contours of the reform. In this respect, I would like to welcome the richness and serenity of the debates we had in the Committee on Social Affairs last week. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] In particular, I would like to stress the presence and great availability of the Minister in our debates and those of the social partners. Our discussions have been constructive. They have made it possible to clarify the intentions of the Government and to identify a number of avenues for improvement, and I will return to that earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u56	It's not clear yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u57	The content of the ordinances should be stabilized during the summer, within the limits of this enabling bill and following the Government's dialogue with all the social partners. Our Assembly will have the opportunity to debate, amend or enrich the changes envisaged by the Government in the autumn of next year when the ordinances are ratified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u58	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u59	Our Assembly will also have a role to play in evaluating the measures that will be put in place. As the President of the Republic recalled in Versailles, parliamentary time must also be a time of control over political action. It was necessary to recall, I believe, that Parliament has an important role to play in this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u60	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u61	I come to the content of the reform. Without detailing the measures covered by the authorization, which the minister has reported on, I want to highlight the crucial thrusts of this bill. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to trust the social partners and social dialogue at all levels, both in substance and in form. In terms of form, social dialogue is at the heart of the process of consultation with the social partners, and I cannot go back to that. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In substance, this confidence is reflected in particular in a wider application of the subsidiarity principle, according to which the standard is more legible, comprehensible and better adapted when it is negotiated closer to those concerned, i.e. at company level. This "decentralisation" goes hand in hand with a strengthening of the level of the branch for all subjects for which, on the contrary, the company is not the best equipped to negotiate. Thus, the areas covered by the legal monopoly of the branch or area shared with the company – the branch, however, having the capacity to impose itself if it so wishes – are extended, for example, to the tenability, management and quality of employment or equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u62	Penitentiary?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u63	We saw what it gave us on part time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u64	Confidence in collective bargaining also implies that all the elements are gathered to ensure that social dialogue takes place in good conditions. In order to achieve this ambition, the draft law provides for the creation of a single body for the representation of staff within the company, resulting from the merger of the three current bodies, namely the staff delegates, the works council and the committee on hygiene, safety and working conditions, the CHSCT. The merged proceeding will allow staff representatives to have a more comprehensive view of the company's strategic issues and to have more weight when submitting claims to the employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u65	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u66	This new organisation of social dialogue in the company is logically accompanied by measures to strengthen the training of elected staff and trade union representatives. The aim of this bill is also to adapt to changes in the world of work while meeting the expectations of employees, for example by giving themselves the means to develop telework and distance work, but also by developing new digital tools to promote accessibility to labour law, or by encouraging greater appropriation by companies of provisions for the forecast management of jobs and skills. Finally, better protection of employees requires greater equity between them and a desire to ease relations at work. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Richard Ferrand, then rapporteur of the law for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, invited us here a few months ago to abandon the idea that the company would be the place of conflict, rather than a common good built by work. It is on the basis of this idea, ladies and gentlemen, that I propose that you move forward. From this point of view, the text tends to encourage as much as possible conciliation in the event of a breach of the employment contract, as a break accepted by both parties also increases the employee's chances of more calmly considering a new stage in his or her career.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u67	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u68	It is also proposed to simplify and harmonise certain procedures, the present complexity of which is equivalent to a lack of guarantees and legibility for the employee, whether they are the rules of reclassification for incapacity or the time limits for litigation in the event of a breach of the employment contract, which is now multiple. The third major thrust of this text is to facilitate the lives of companies, whether in their day-to-day management or when they are confronted with economic difficulties. The text thus provides for a better framework for voluntary departure plans, which today do not have a real legal existence. It also aims to secure the procedure of economic dismissal by specifying the scope of the assessment of economic grounds, but also by simplifying certain procedures within the framework of the employment protection plan. In addition, it is proposed to secure the loan and sponsorship of labour for innovative start-ups. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Finally, the drafters of this bill have been driven by the desire to respond to the specificities of small businesses. Thus, in the future, branch agreements could adapt the rules to the SME-ETPs in their sector. The strengthening of the regional interprofessional joint committees proposed in this bill also contributes to this objective. The desire to respond specifically to the expectations of SMEs requires a moment to stop on the subject of penitibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u69	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u70	Reducing exposure to hard work is a shared goal on all benches of this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u71	I don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u72	The application of the personal account for preventing penitibility since 2015, on the other hand, is still a matter of debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u73	Apparently, it's already settled for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u74	It is not a question of returning to the principle of this personal account or to the rights already acquired, but of considering the practical modalities of its implementation and the operational difficulties. The negotiations with the social partners cover all the parameters of the account, whether they are exposure factors, how they are measured or how they are reported. Our work in committee has made it possible to clarify the three purposes of this authorization, namely simplification, legal security and prevention. I will particularly stress the issue of prevention, which is the basis of this personal account. It is not just a matter of compensating or repairing an exposure to penitibility, but of reducing it. I therefore hope that this personal account will become a real lever of prevention and will, over the years, lead to a tangible reduction in penitibility, which will allow France to move closer to the lower level in the neighbouring countries. The contours of the future prevention account presented last Saturday by the Prime Minister are firmly in line with this perspective. Beyond these substantive aspects, I wish to address the concerns raised by this ambitious and, in my view, indispensable reform. No one can sweep away the fears of a back-of-hand, or overlook the fears that a number of colleagues have expressed in committee and will probably still be expressing in the House today. These concerns are legitimate in a society facing structural and technological upheavals, which have consequences for our lives as well as for the labour market, in a society marked by high unemployment, in which many of our compatriots find themselves in situations of fragility and therefore need guarantees and protection. Our discussions in committee have highlighted these fears, that they concern the taking into account of penitibility, the specific situation of SMEs, the health and safety of workers, and also the question of employee representation in view of the new possibilities of merging the institutions representing employees. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not be afraid to move forward, because this fear will not prevent the world itself from moving forward. And the risk is that he's moving forward without us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u75	We don't have to back off either!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On the other hand, we have the means to accompany the changes that are affecting the world of work today. This challenge is being launched today; It's up to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u77	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, alternate, Mr Joël Giraud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u78	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the provisions just presented by my colleague Laurent Pietraszewski on the strengthening of social dialogue, the text we are considering this afternoon provides for the power of the Government to take the necessary measures by order to postpone the entry into force of the income tax source levy by one year. The Finance Committee could not disinterest itself in this measure. On the initiative of its chairman and with the agreement of the rapporteur-general, whom I am replacing today, she has therefore taken up Article 9 in the framework of an 'article delegation' made by the Committee on Social Affairs. For a long time considered but never implemented, the reform of the levy at source was one of the flagship measures of the Finance Act for 2017. It concerns all taxpayers very directly. It was the subject of in-depth discussions last autumn, which helped to enrich and significantly improve the original text. This reform must completely change the tax collection chronicle, allowing for the collection of tax owing by taxpayers in real time and as income is collected. It will lead to the elimination of the one-year lag that exists today, which can be very damaging for households whose incomes vary from year to year, particularly in the event of a downward change. It will also put an end to a kind of French exception, since the vast majority of OECD countries have been applying the source levy for several decades. The source levy would cover almost all income, more than 97 per cent to be precise. In the case of wages and pensions, i.e. about 88% of income, it would take the form of a withholding tax made by third-party payers, i.e. employers and pension funds, for the most part. For the income of the self-employed as well as for the property income, it would take the form of an advance payment paid by the taxpayer himself. On the other hand, the reform foresees that the levy rate will be changed during the year when the tax home undergoes significant changes. The taxpayer may also request to adjust its rate, both upwards and downwards. He may choose an individualized rate – in this case, his spouse's income will not be taken into account – or opt for a so-called "default" rate, if he does not want his employer to be aware of his home tax rate. At the same time, the reform provided for a special mechanism, called the "Modernisation Tax Credit for Recovery" or ICMR, which would avoid double taxation of taxpayers in the year the reform came into force and allow them to benefit from their tax reductions and credits for the previous year. The mechanism proposed by Article 60 of the Finance Act for 2017 is therefore complete and robust. However, it cannot be disputed that its timetable is very tight: adopted at the end of December 2016, the reform must in fact apply from 1 January 2018. This far-reaching reform requires, among other things, the completion of several computer and technical projects. Given its budgetary stakes, but also the impact that the slightest malfunction would have on taxpayers, it is essential to take the time necessary to carry out tests and experiments in good conditions, in particular with collecting companies, to make computer applications reliable and to ensure the proper training of agents. The Government therefore demonstrates pragmatism and wisdom by adopting an evaluation-based approach: it implements a three-month experiment, from July to September, while launching an independent reform audit to ensure that it is operational in order to assess the possible cost to collectors. Therefore, it is necessary to shift its entry into force by one year in order to be able to draw lessons from this experiment and audit work. This gap does not, however, call into question the merits of the reform, but aims to ensure that the reform, decided in the last year of the previous quinquennium, takes place in better conditions. The deferral measure must, on the other hand, be taken early enough to ensure that taxpayers are not caught in the loop and that the tax administration does not send tax sheets with unnecessary errors or information from this summer. Some of the provisions in the text, for example concerning employers' obligations of professional secrecy, should have even come into force on 1 October: you therefore understand the importance of this postponement. That is why section 9 of the bill before us is intended to empower the Government to take all the necessary measures to postpone the source levy to 1 January 2019 and to adapt the reference years of the transitional measures accordingly, in particular for the implementation of the ICMR. Following a lively and constructive debate with the Minister, the Finance Committee adopted this one-year deferral measure. It also adopted an amendment, tabled by our colleague Valérie Rabault, calling on the Government to submit a report on the experiment carried out this summer before 30 September. The Minister committed himself to providing the Finance Committee with complete and prompt information on the results of the experiment and the audit. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I therefore invite you to follow the Finance Committee by adopting Rule 9 as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u79	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u80	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to comment briefly on the conditions under which the Committee on Social Affairs will examine this first bill. We had to face a difficulty related to the very nature of the text. I would point out, as the minister and our rapporteur have already done, that this is not only a bill enabling the Government to legislate by ordinance, but that this authorization must define the scope of the consultation with the social partners. The opposition may have regretted that no amendments have been adopted, and I understand that. However, it is difficult to accept amendments which are mostly to be deleted and would therefore have the effect of holding the dialogue with the social partners. But so is the functioning of our institution. In any event, our work will have been useful for understanding the text, but also for understanding the positions of each other. In considering almost 200 amendments, I believe we have seriously addressed all the issues. I would like to thank the minister, who has witnessed all of our work, which has not always been the case. I also thank her, as well as our rapporteur, for having responded at length and precisely to the amendments, including sometimes when they were simply defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u81	It's the role of a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u82	I would also like to stress our committee's commitment to the rights of the opposition. Thus, even if it was only a faculty left to it, it had accepted, in an unprecedented way, the early appointment of an opposition deputy as rapporteur on the application of the law, the contribution of which was contained in the report, as well as those of two other opposition groups. I have reminded the committee of the existence of this option, which has been offered under our Rules of Procedure but which has almost never been used in recent years. A broad debate, a strong presence throughout the examination: this is likely to give satisfaction to a committee chair. Our discussions have been serene and I invite you to view them in their entirety, not in a truncated manner. Their quality was recognized by the groups at the end of our work, but I continue to receive, via social networks, insults – sometimes a sexist tantinet – and even death threats by guillotine, a barbaric instrument that I thought was banished. This is not my conception of democratic debate. One of our Commissioners reminded me in committee that we were being watched and observed. It does not bother me: our work is transparent and therefore cannot be interpreted further. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] However, I would like to say very solemnly that I will never accept to exercise my mandate under pressure and threats from anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u83	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u84	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For my part, I will continue to work and chair this committee by ensuring that those who have views other than that of the majority can express them in a calm and open manner, which does not exclude the smile.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u85	I call Mr Boris Vallaud, rapporteur on the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of opposition rights and at our request, the Committee on Social Affairs has appointed me rapporteur on the implementation of the enabling bill, with the task of looking at the impact assessment. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for this, while stressing that the deadlines for examining the law, tabling amendments and making an assessment of this impact assessment do not allow for serious parliamentary work. That is why my explanations will remain partial, and even summary. First of all, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the organic law, the enabling laws to legislate by ordinance allow for derogations from certain obligations on impact assessment. For example, the impact study on the text we are considering, covering more than fifty subjects in the field of labour law, is exempt from assessing the economic, financial, social and environmental consequences, as well as the expected costs and financial benefits of the proposed provisions. Your rapporteur can only regret this and stress the inappropriate nature of the procedure adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u87	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u88	The impact assessment presents a timetable for consultations between the Government and trade union organizations. The Government had to draft the draft law while the first phase of those consultations was under way. They are not finished and we are now deliberating without knowing the conclusions. This method does not allow the development of a fair and co-built reform between stakeholders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u90	In the preamble to the impact assessment, a timetable is presented for six major projects which the Minister has recalled and which are to be spread over 18 months. How can we justify, in these circumstances, the extreme urgency of making orders on the first of these yards? The Council of State itself has expressed this issue and concern. The urgency is all the less evident since we are legislating on recent texts, which have not yet been evaluated, and because I find it difficult, as rapporteur, to establish a coherent link between the need to define a stable legal framework and the urgency in which we must express our opinion. This analysis is supported by the advice of the Council of State, which fears legislative inflation and legal instability, which is in contrast to the Government's stated objectives. Your law enforcement rapporteur agrees with the objective of legal and regulatory stability for both companies and employees, but it must be noted that the legal order is still uncertain, because laws are being amended when they have only just been passed. I am thinking of the law of 6 August 2015 on economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, the law of 17 August 2015 on social dialogue and employment and the law of 8 August 2016 on labour. This obviously involves changes in recent arrangements, such as the reform of the obligations of information and consultation in the undertaking, the use of consultation with employees in the undertaking or the use of a merged body of staff representative bodies. The objective of stability referred to in the impact assessment therefore does not seem to me to be possible under these conditions. The articulation of the draft law with European law is the subject of at least a summary analysis. With regard to the assessment of the state of implementation of the law, the Government confused the terms by essentially analysing the rule of law, which was not the same. The concept of the status of the application of the law can be understood, depending on the subjects, as an evaluation approach. It must be noted that it is often defective. Your rapporteur doubts, for example, whether it is possible to consider as a serious evaluation of the letter of dismissal procedure the reference to an unsourped study covering about 100 cases. The representativeness of such a study can be doubted. Similarly, the assertion that the reorganisation of social dialogue through the reorganisation of staff representative bodies would be a structural reform that could have long-term effects on the quality and effectiveness of social dialogue in the company seems to us to be close to a petition in principle. Finally, the need for legislation is not always established. This is true of the threshold for the triggering of social plans, which has been enshrined in our law consistently for thirty years. This is also true of the need to reform night work, while a number of reports from the National Food, Environment and Labour Health Safety Agency (ANSES) show the opposite. I would add that there is a lack of detail in the text. I am thinking in particular of the baremisation of damages in the event of dismissal and, even though some details, although incomplete, have been made in this regard today, of the reform of the penitential account. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Let me conclude by stressing that this examination is obviously too fast: we have had five minutes in this rostrum and 13,000 signs in the report, so that it is not a question of conducting a debate on the substance of this report, but simply of showing the limits of this report, which does not allow for a proper clarification of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u91	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you for the first time in this House and I am doing so with seriousness. For me, it is a question of defending the motion of rejection that we, together with the group La France insoumé, have decided to oppose the bill that we are considering. Before we come to the substance and the reasons we have for fiercely opposing this text, I want here, in the name of those who, for a short time, would agree to be represented by a member of Parliament for France who is unsuspecting, to strongly challenge the method that the Government imposes on us. Let's take a moment to think about it. The bill that we have to consider today is not intended to make a clear decision on what should be done with the Labour Code, but to define the scope on which Parliament authorizes the Government to take action by order – orders on which Parliament will no longer have the sole say that "yes" or "no", since it would have empowered the Government to take the measures it wishes to take. The Prime Minister, in his policy speech, justified the use of orders by the fact that it was a campaign announcement by Emmanuel Macron. The Minister for Labour has found nothing better to say in the Committee on Social Affairs. We thank you both for this enlightening explanation, but you will easily understand that you do not teach us anything: we knew that Emmanuel Macron had said that he would do so; that it respects its campaign advertisements does not remove anything from the questionable nature of the said advertisements. [["Ah! » on several benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the GDR and NG groups]] Is it worth reminding you, moreover, that the candidate who became President of the Republic has become President of the Republic in a particular context, at least, with a very strong abstention, a vote expressed above all against Mrs Le Pen and, ultimately, only one in seven voters who voted in favour of her programme? As much as all of us here, you have unquestionable legitimacy. However, you do not have an enlightened political majority in the country and you know that. The magnitude of your majority is commensurate with its fragility, and we are beginning to see its signs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So our question is not waiting for an answer: "We are doing it because candidate Macron said it." It is for us to know why: we want to know the justification of a method asking parliamentarians that we are the authority to do about what is singing to you with the legal and social order of the 18 million employees of the private sector, without being able to then tell us what you will actually do. Moreover, we do not know what you will do: since the beginning of this quinquennium, your trademark is to hide your intentions. Should I remind you that it was through the press that we learned the first elements of what you planned to do with the labour code? We could also assimilate the work of the press, against which you have reacted strongly, to that of the whistleblowers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Even though your intentions on this major subject are not precisely known – we only guess their contours, even if they are clearly more than formalised – you ask us to give up our role as legislator! For our part, we oppose you a great "No"! You won't have our white-seing to play sorcerer apprentices with the labor code!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The labour code, if it ulcers you, is the fruit of more than a century of struggles and social achievements. It starts from a simple observation, which I want to clarify: work, if it cannot be summed up to this, is undoubtedly the place where there is not only a link of subordination between the employer and the employee, but also a relationship of strength between economic actors with divergent interests. To say this is not to be dogmatic or sectarian, as some would claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the contrary, it is a matter of quietly assuming a reality of fact that one cannot reasonably sweep away with a turn of the hand, even with the social dialogue that you invoke at length of speech, as a shaman would make incantations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u97	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u98	It is for you to hide the reality of what it covers. You know well that, in the company, the employee and the employer do not speak equal. The social dialogue that you invoke is a term that, in your mouth, is the denial of existing power relations. There was a time, remember, when we were told of "moral capitalism". Now it's "social dialogue" and other bullshit and illusionist tricks!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u99	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We don't trust you. We have no reason to do so, especially when Mrs Pénicaud, representative of a ministry which, it must be recalled, was conceived and created to protect employees, suggested that, in her current state, the labour code would be done to bother 95% of companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u101	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u102	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] These words are unacceptable and by these words, Madam Minister, you are dishonoring your position! [["Of course! » and laughs on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Perhaps you will have the opportunity to clarify your thoughts on this subject. I am not going to sue you for intent, but if you keep that saying, ladies and gentlemen, you should also know that the road code is meant to bother 100% of the drivers! [["Oh! »on a few benches of the REM group]] Others, with statements more measured than yours, say that the problem of the labour code lies in its thickness. But since when do we judge the efficiency of a document to its thickness? Do you also find that the directory is too thick? If that is the case, I leave it to you to tell us which pages you would like to tear off! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Moreover, if the labour code is thick, it has become thicker with derogations that its opponents have managed to introduce over the years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u104	So here comes the time of the firefighters, weeping hot crocodile tears on consequences of which they themselves are the cause!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u106	Everyone understood that you wanted to impose a real speed race on this text. We know why. There is no justification for the use of prescriptions, nor for the readiness to allow you to do so. No one, as I know, is threatened with imminent death, or the country of widespread asphyxiation if your bill does not pass immediately. The reason is elsewhere. No doubt you have ensured that all the parameters that allow you to go further than all your predecessors in the social coup de force are brought together, as parliamentarians are not in a position to react in full possession of their means, as the actors concerned do not have the time necessary to ensure the explanation of them to the greatest number, the French finally being on the way on holiday – for the luckiest – and therefore not paying attention to your turpitudes. You have convened us for this in a special session – a special session of which we do not really know the limits, and when we are just elected, so much so that we have had to start working on this text without the means or tools to do so. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The king summoned the court to Versailles at the time when the amendments were to be tabled for the examination of the text in committee. Collateral damage? Definitely not! Even if this convocation is his most strict right under the provisions of the Constitution, everyone will appreciate the consequences: most of my colleagues here were in Versailles at the time when their amendments were expected!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u107	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u108	Anyway, you've done your calculations. You know that the pill you want to swallow with this bill cannot be swallowed by anyone who would take the time to analyze its actual composition, size and side effects. So you decided to take advantage of a moment of relaxation in the country to put the funnel in our mouth: you will make us swallow the pill and the liter of water that goes with it in a few moments. Not seen, not known. Not seen, not taken! The work of the Social Affairs Committee is a perfect illustration of your method. By the very admission of the observers, there were four or five of us speaking in these debates. Together with my comrades in La France and those of the GDR Group, we were the only ones who regularly intervened in this committee. We have tabled more than 130 amendments; We have endeavoured to demonstrate, decrypt and propose. None of these amendments have found thanks to you. None!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u109	And for good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u110	Your inflexibility was total. We have understood, and I take note of it, that in your view flexibility should apply only to employees! [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The deputies of La République en Marche have been, I must say, deafening in silence. It is a question of whether they had read the text or whether they were aware of the issues at stake. During the work of this committee, certain moments will remain, in my opinion, in the history of French parliamentarism – for example when the president, Mrs Bourguignon, had to go back to it several times to make the majority members understand that we were voting a whole article and that they had to take part in the vote! It was necessary to see the number of eyes in the form of question marks in this commission during the analysis of a text that was yet historical in scope! [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen of La République en Marche, I want to address you at this moment: do not let yourself be grieved by the Macron wave that has brought you here! You're deputies of the nation! You are representatives of the French people! Be up to date, make an immoderate use of your own ability to reflect and your free will! Don't be afraid to let others convince you that you do! Send in yourself something other than what to do to make you see well with your own! Don't hesitate, even, to resent yourself! You will always find us ready to welcome you with the greatest pleasure and to support you in this process! I know that many of you find the method used by the Government questionable. Even if we have disagreements on the substance, it is a good reason for you to vote with us on this motion of rejection in advance, if only to give us time for a genuine debate of quality, which the French deserve a great deal! Among the hearings conducted by the Social Affairs Committee was that of the MEDEF, represented by Mr Saubot. On that occasion, he stated that, on a personal basis, he did not know a boss wondering how to dismiss him. We note, however, that in many ways, this bill helps answer this question, particularly when it comes to redefining the scope of the economic cause and empowering a company to dismiss for this reason. So, from the MEDEF's very admission, we are looking at a bill that answers questions that no one is asking! Admit it's original! But I also want to support this idea. Like you, ladies and gentlemen, I am meeting with entrepreneurs, especially from TPE and SMEs. Almost all of them, without exception, speak to me about the agonizing activity and of the orders that are filled with difficulty, when they do not simply empty themselves. Never did one of them mention the labour code or law to explain the problems he faces!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u111	That's because you don't meet the good ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u112	You'll introduce them to us! Who therefore benefits from the crime against the Labour Code, if not the MEDEF, which one of the representatives had declared, after the election of Emmanuel Macron, that he felt "like on a cloud"? The French people know this well: when such characters, shielding the TV sets to explain that the French are too expensive, say that they feel "like on a cloud", it is necessary to hurry to get them down again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u113	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u114	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] In recent years, the roadmap of a small minority, radicalised and unrepresentative fraction of employers, led by the MEDEF, has been followed to the letter by successive governments, in the name of competitiveness – a word that hurts the jaw when pronounced – and the fight against unemployment. This would require questioning employee protections on the grounds that lack of flexibility and the alleged cost of work would prevent employers from hiring. The interests of employees have completely disappeared from the debates on the labour code! However, the responsibility for the labour code in the employment situation is not demonstrated, even if it is constantly felt in the media. Several OECD studies show that there is no correlation between the reduction in employee rights and the fall in unemployment: this is a pure view of the mind. It is above all the order book, and not the state of labour law, that dictates the policy of hiring a company. The balance sheet of the Dutch quinquennium, in which Emmanuel Macron played a leading role in economics,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u115	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u116	... shows this: unemployment has never been so high despite the facilitation of dismissal, the reduction of collective rights of employees and the increase in the possibilities of derogation from the law through company agreements. Accusing the right to work to be a barrier to employment is therefore tantamount to accusing those who have a job and enjoy the protection provided by the Labour Code of being responsible for the increase in unemployment. These analyses seek to contrast employees with each other. They mostly and voluntarily forget the role of employers and shareholders in the management of employment in France. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It also means abandoning social gains on the pretext of global competition, a real race at least so-called social organized by free trade and the free movement of capital. "We are tired of suffering from degraded working conditions to increase the dividends": this is what the employees will come to tell you massively in very little time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u118	For your policy, in line with those carried out for more than fifteen years – whatever the labels of those who have applied them – has only one real interest: to increase the puncture that shareholders carry out on work by obliging employees to accept wage cuts, increases in unpaid working time, deterioration of their working conditions, all under the threat of dismissals. Meanwhile, and for the past three years, France has been the European champion of dividends paid to shareholders: 35 billion were distributed by large companies in the second quarter of 2016, an increase of 11% in one year. As a result of this policy, employees suffer more at work and have less free time. The boundary between private and professional life is increasingly porous, when it does not simply disappear. Occupational diseases, burn-outs and even suicides in the workplace are increasing. Far from being fatal, this is the result of a strategic choice of governments like yours, which place the interests of shareholders and the richest at the heart of their project, to the detriment of the working conditions of employees. So, clause after clause, this bill suggests allowing you to do roughly what you want in labour law, translating its scope of application into ordinances to legislate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Your statement of reasons is in the image of your movement: a paving stone of good intentions and a powerful anesthetic to better carry out your operations of unrivalled hardness. Emmanuel Macron, like your majority, thrives on confusion. The characters have changed, the costumes too, but the script remains untiringly the same as that applied by previous governments – the same policies for the same effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u120	You claim to treat an evil that, of course, you will only worsen. Your ordinances will make the country even sicker than it already is. To you, Madam Minister of Labour, who invites us to make the bet of trust in social dialogue, we reply that we are not here to play, let alone to bet! If we were to make a bet, we would always prefer the bet of intelligence to the bet of trust that you call your vows. The emphasis on "social dialogue" is only a pretext for legitimizing the employer's power, which has been steadily increasing. Whatever your denials, your bill actually gives the company agreement a central place, you are relegating the branch agreement to a level that falls within the exception and you are thus devoting the inversion of the hierarchy of standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u121	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u122	The projection of your intentions is to promote a labour code per company, which is almost as absurd as a road code per street – which everyone can measure the nature of the accident. Furthermore, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the French trade unions are first and foremost organized by branch. By doing this, you will make their task even more difficult. Your entire project aims to allow as many other people as possible, in addition to union representatives, to negotiate with the employer. The emphasis on the union cheque, as well as the merger of staff representative bodies to create a single body, meant that the means were limited. You're levelling from the bottom. Under the guise of economic change, you are extending the use of particular forms of work that would facilitate the emergence of general uberization, which we know you are dreaming of because it would artificially reduce unemployment by increasing precariousness – I am against the suggested extension of the construction contract to areas other than the BTP. Your project is also malicious. For example, when you open the right for a company to derogate from the implementation of a branch agreement that should concern it – this was said earlier: for example, a company may object to a year-end premium in the branch to which it belongs. You also introduce the baremization of the damages paid to employees after a judgment to the prud'hommes, i.e. in the context of an unfair dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u123	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u124	So you set the cost of injury a priori. Is this your conception of justice as a whole? With this measure, an employer will know exactly how much it will cost as much as the unfair dismissal of an employee. In two lines, the indefinite nature of the CDI's duration explodes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u125	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u126	Night work, the posting of workers, cross-border work, Sunday work, everything goes through and you leave nothing to chance. Even when you simply claim to bring the form of the law into line with the application of the ordinances, you actually maintain the possibility of attacking the substance of the law itself. Cherry on the cake: you reaffirm the need for tax collection at source, even if you move its application by a year. For our part, we firmly reject this privatization of tax collection...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u128	... which will allow the employer to know the detailed situation of his employees: "No, Robert, you don't need this salary increase since you just got your grandfather's inheritance! " That's what's going to happen tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u130	As far as we are concerned, and because we have the strength to propose, we believe that we must do the opposite of what you are advocating in the field of labour law. Employees should be given back the rights they have lost, first of all by repealing all the reforms of the Labour Code implemented by the previous government: the so-called Employment Security Act, the Rebsamen Act, the Macron Act, the El Khomry Act. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In addition, we would not be content to simply reverse your logic. In fact, we want to create new rights that allow employees to be better protected: you are constantly renting freedom, but the employees of our country are waiting first and foremost for more security. Let us take these words to our account as they sum up our situation at this very moment: between the weak and the strong, between the rich and the poor, between the master and the servant, it is freedom that oppresses and it is the law that frees. Globalization and the development of the financialization of the economy do not justify a reduction of tariffs in the name of competitiveness, but rather their extension. Employees need more protections in order to assert their interests in the face of the ever-increasing profitability requirements on the part of shareholders. To put an end to the suffering at work, the programme defended by the group La France Insoumise proposes to build a truly protective and emancipatory labour code. By law, we would prohibit the pressure of employers who have forced a cashier here to miscarriage her workplace, there, a school teacher to continue working in spite of a stroke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u131	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u132	The aim would also be to ensure respect for individual and collective rights by increasing the number and means of labour inspection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u134	Finally, the Labour Code must become a tool for the emancipation of employees by allowing their representatives to defend alternatives to the management of employers and finance of their enterprises. If you have to trust, aren't the employees in the best position to decide too? Thus, the objective of well-being at work would take precedence over short-term financial interests. We propose to put citizenship at the heart of the company by strengthening employees' rights in collective proceedings and creating a genuine right to take over their business. We also want to recast the procedure for challenging economic redundancies so that they cannot be effective until all the remedies before the judges have been exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen, can we, at the very least, agree on the idea that it is urgent to relaunch activity in our country? We dispute the idea that we should do this by tirelessly pursuing the policy of supply, which consists of producing anything, almost any way, as long as we are able to constantly reduce the price in order to sell and contribute to this economic war that only a strict minority has desired. Dear supporters of "competitiveness",...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u135	Are you there?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u136	...I have bad news to announce: we will never be competitive against those who produce at low prices under ecological and social conditions that we also formally challenge. That is also why we call for the establishment of a solidarity protectionism, yes, which allows us to refuse products which are detestable in terms of production to enter the national territory,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u137	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u138	...as, for example, those who use child labour. We must put an end to the great permanent move of the world and the free trade agreements – even if they apply in a transitional way, pending the sovereign vote of the French parliamentarians. We propose a revival of activity that is socially useful – that is, that questions our real needs – and ecologically sustainable. The ecological planning that we want allows this, because it matches the objectives and conditions of production while allowing France to take the lead in responding to the challenges that concern it not only itself but humanity as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u139	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u140	[[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] At a time when the ecological crisis is reaching a point of no return, at a time when our country, which has never produced so much wealth, is ever more concentrated in a few hands while poverty is gaining everywhere and with eyes on the ground, you assume that the urgency is in the organization of a murder with premeditation of the labour code!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u141	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u142	In pursuing your goal, you certainly walk, but next to history as it comes to meet you. That is absolutely irresponsible, and that is the meaning of what I said in the Committee on Social Affairs. At this time, yes, many employees are watching us, worried. Those who do not yet do so will do so soon and perhaps, unfortunately, after the fact. Ladies and gentlemen, do not allow this to be done on their behalf! Do you really want history to remember that your "walk" was first and foremost a general trampling of a century of social struggle? Do you really think our people will run faster if you saw both legs? [[Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the FI Group stand up and applaud. – Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Beyond our political disagreements and partisan interests, I want to believe that there is in this House the collective intelligence necessary to reject, if not this bill, at least the method imposed on us. Whatever your motivation to do so, you know like me that there are a thousand and one reasons to refuse it. This refusal will therefore manifest itself today by voting on this motion to reject it beforehand. I call you all, without sorting out between you, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u143	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u144	I will wait until the end of the general discussion in order to hear everyone and to respond to the comments that will need to be highlighted and commented on. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we are not in favour of the adoption of this motion to reject beforehand. Why? It is not a matter of form but of substance. There is an urgent need to free up the energies of companies in the French labour market. Do you think they're free to move forward, that they can, that they trust? Well, no! Do you think that employees feel that they are protected by a labour law that may be very comprehensive but not necessarily adapted to today's problems? Well, no! This is the message that was sent out during the presidential campaign: a demand for profound and strong reforms that justifies the submission of this enabling bill to you today. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Some mention a lack of debate. On the contrary! The committee has met for about 10 hours, we will discuss in public more than 300 amendments and all will be discussed. Moreover, remember that Article 1 of the Labour Code attests to the importance of social dialogue, consultation and negotiation. As you know: this law is accompanied by a real exercise of social democracy that complements and links with political democracy, of which you are representatives. This social democracy is manifested in a tone, intensity, listening, consultation as we know them today with employers' and trade union organisations, while some reject them. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] No, this bill is not a white-sing! The impact assessment is 75 pages long and I do not go back to all these exchanges, all this social consultation. There's an emergency! We ask you to trust all those who support this approach so that we can move forward quickly and in depth on such a crucial subject for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u145	In explanation of vote, Mr Fabien Di Filippo, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u146	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in France, one in ten people is affected by unemployment, one in four young people and one in two people over 50 years of age. Our country will not recover without an effective fight against this mass unemployment. We want the debate to rise to the stakes. Between a sometimes arrogant majority who, in committee, reject with a gesture two hundred amendments, in principle, without seriously asking themselves the question of the merits of one or the other, who wants to legislate by ordinances to go quickly but mainly truncates the debate on a major subject, thus taking the risk of seeing it take place on the street and, on the other hand, our unsubstantiated colleagues who want to sclerose the debate and block the evolution of the labour code, I want to believe that there is room to move forward in the discussion on this crucial subject by taking into account contributions that are not bad in principle because coming from the opposition. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and LR groups]] For example, the Republican Group, an intransigent but above all responsible opposition, demanding both in substance and in form, wishes to continue the discussion and will therefore not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u147	What an opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u148	Mr Mignola, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, we will obviously not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand and, first of all, because it is based on the challenge of urgency. But no one can dispute that there is an urgent need in our country to reform work, to reinvent social dialogue, to write a new page in our social history, to protect our model. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] It is also based on a distorted view of the enabling law. With all due respect to our colleague, we cannot follow him when he claims that this law is primarily aimed at reducing the rights of employees. That's the opposite! The first right of employees is not to be put under pressure on the pretext that there are several million unemployed. The first right of employees is to be able to participate in the definition of business strategies and to contribute, alongside employers, to the reorganization of their enterprises, so that they will create more and more jobs tomorrow. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of MODEM and REM groups]] Our colleague, on the other hand, has at length compared the labour code with the road code, expressing the hope that it will remain as it is. This comparison also seems to me to be based on a misconception of the company, because the road code does not in principle postulate that all those who drive cars and buses have the ambition to kill all their passengers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] Finally, this motion of rejection is based on a trial of intent. I heard the words "fuck," "malice," and even "premeditated murder." We, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have even been lent a form of childbearing. For my part, I believe that our colleague has not shown a genuine political insubmission, but rather an insubordination to the respect and reality of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u150	Francis Vercamer, for the Group of the European People's Party: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u151	Mr President, if there is one point on which we agree with the Group of the European People's Party, that is the method. The choice to use orders, which do not necessarily show great respect for Parliament, as well as the deadlines for tabling amendments in committee or in the sitting, is not in line with the President of the Republic's announcements in favour of a re-evaluation of Parliament. But this question of method is the only one on which we agree with La France insoubted. It is imperative that companies adapt to the world we live in, have confidence in the future and have a long-term vision. For this to happen, labour law must adapt regularly to the changes in our world: I am thinking of digitisation, the energy transition, but also of the evolution of transport and the challenges of globalisation. To deal with these changes, I repeat, the labour code must evolve. For some time now I have been sitting in this Chamber and I have had the opportunity to oppose several laws which have the effect of sclerosis the operation of the company. In this enabling law, several measures proposed by the Government are in the right direction, that of improving social dialogue and the functioning of the enterprise. We are, of course, in favour of that. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We will not vote on this motion to reject beforehand, because we believe that the company needs visibility, because it is visibility that creates the conditions for growth, and because employment is born of growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u152	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, when I explain why our group will vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection, I would like to address all of you, and particularly the members of the La République group on the move. I am convinced that if you wanted to sit here, it was more to renovate political life than to end up breaking the labour code in one summer. I would like to try to convince the largest number of you, if not today, at least in the course of our next five days of debate. Putting aside the cynicism of the government, which works with antiphrases – better to protect, is to deregulate; Combating unemployment means securing redundancies; The only freedom that is worth it is that of the fox in the henhouse – we realize that reversing the hierarchy of norms cannot be considered as a means of giving birth to negotiation within the company, since it already exists, but that it is a way of weakening the law. It can be seen that baremising the damages of the workers is not only facilitating dismissals – anyone who works in a company today knows that they are easy – but it is securing dismissals, even abusive ones. Finally, we can see how to make the CDI the rule, whereas it is limited in time, it is totally contradictory with the definition of CDI itself. You asked, Mr. Mignola, why we didn't trust companies. It is clear that the desire of many entrepreneurs is not to precarise their employees and that they do not wish them harm. But capitalism is not a moral: it is a system. A system based on competition and whose essential criterion is price. Therefore, as soon as you listen to at least the so-called social, you condemn all the actors, including virtuous entrepreneurs, to draw down the economic system in which we live, which, as everyone knows, is dominated, with subcontracting and command, by operating capitalism. Adopting this "labour" law is in fact promoting a "capital" law, which has meant that, for the past twenty years, what is increasingly expensive in the country is the wealth accumulated by finance, which has been multiplied by twenty, while national wealth was multiplied by only two.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u154	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In essence, I ask you the question: is that what you want to leave your name for, ladies and gentlemen? For our part, we will vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u156	Mrs Huguette Bello, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u157	Mr President, at least three reasons stand in favour of this motion of rejection. The first is that a single premise underlies this reform, a premise that employee protection and the labour code are major obstacles to the recruitment and competitiveness of enterprises. This dogma, which is intended to be modern, has been imposed in spite of many international studies and despite the reality itself. The OECD, the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the World Bank continue to show that there is no correlation between employee protection and the level of unemployment. For its part, INSEE devoted its economic note last month to the results of its survey on barriers to employment. We learn from this that it is economic uncertainty and the unavailability of skills for businesses that constitute the main barriers, far from labour law. Therefore, the elaboration of the new social norms, which we call for, will only be done on a good basis, if and only if we have the courage first to abandon this erroneous correlation, which is beginning to date. Secondly, the use of ordinances, on such a sensitive matter, is justified only by its announcement during the presidential campaign. It is true, but it is short, especially after the adjustments, or even the setbacks, already announced. As for the historical rapprochement with 1982, 1959, or even 1936, it suffers from a comparative bias. The 39 hours, paid leave, retirement at the age of sixty coincided with a deep popular aspiration. Can we say the same today, when almost 70% of the French say they are against the present reform and when the one that preceded it, just a year ago, was adopted under the conditions we know? You are speaking, Madam Minister, of a bet. On the other hand, it must be recognised that there is a certain paradox to want to do without Parliament at the very moment when the end of the cumulation of mandates is supposed to make Members more available to legislate! Finally, the text is still too imprecise on many points, sometimes even totally silent, especially with regard to the overseas countries, which nevertheless have the highest unemployment rates in the Republic. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] By voting on this point of order, ladies and gentlemen, we will restore Parliament to its prerogatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u159	The next speaker is Mr Aurélien Taché, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u160	[["Indeed! » on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party calls for the rejection of this text, even before it is examined. This is a very caricatural position, in line with the amendments tabled in committee on this text. You're denouncing the use of prescriptions. However, this is a democratic procedure, which has not prevented you from tabling hundreds of amendments in committee! It is true that none of them found thanks in our eyes, but since you were able to put them back in session, I do not see what the problem is. The parliamentary shuttle will take place and, at the end of it, Parliament will have the last word, since the ratification bill will be submitted to it. The use of orders only allows the Government to implement measures expected by the French more quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u161	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u162	With nearly 3.5 million unemployed, we have a responsibility to act quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u163	To do what? Where to?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u164	Be concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u165	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] What are you proposing, ladies and gentlemen? The status quo and immobilism! On the banks of La République en marche, we believe, like you, in the virtues of political democracy, but also in those of social democracy, of which you do not have the monopoly of representation. Yes, this text goes in the right direction: we do not touch the legal duration of work, we do not touch the CDI.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u166	How do you know?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u167	It takes into account the reality of the world...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u168	They're truisms!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u169	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ...a moving world, a moving world. And I don't understand your hostility to moving the world. I think it's a good thing. That is why, on behalf of my group, I propose to reject this motion, to come to the substance of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u170	Mr President, I asked for a public vote on this vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u171	No, Mr Mélenchon, the request I received from you concerns the motion to refer to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u172	I have received a motion from Mr Olivier Faure and members of the New Left Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u173	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the world of work has entered a phase of profound change, with the upheavals linked to digital technology and the emergence of new forms of employment, new statutes and multi-activity. In the face of the fragmentation of career paths and the undermining of the traditional triptych "Initial training, employment, retirement", it is essential to secure career paths so that every employee can remain in employment or gain access to vocational training. This is a key issue for a country where the fear of job failure and unemployment is among the highest in Europe. And I must point out, Madam Minister, that there is no such thing as this in your text. Some countries such as Germany have chosen to reduce unemployment in favour of a massive increase in precarious employment with a proliferation of mini-jobs. This choice led to a doubling of the number of precarious people in employment between 2004 and 2010. Precarization of the labour market, leading to an increase in inequalities, cannot be a desirable solution. The Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – OFCE – will report in two days on the evaluation of the macroeconomic programme of the President of the Republic. If we do not yet know its conclusions, there is at least one that we can anticipate: the risk of an increase in inequality and an increase in insecurity, because of the social reforms that you propose to us. A recent book by the European Trade Union Institute examines the impact of changes in the regulation of levels and forms of employment in nine European Union countries, including France. It shows that the reduction in employment protection has not brought any benefits from the labour market or economic benefits. In addition, post-crisis changes were accompanied by an increase in precarious employment in countries that had relied particularly on deregulation efforts. The risk of the reforms that you will be presenting to us, whose text we are looking at today is the first stone, is indeed that of the precariousness of jobs. A letter from the Treasury of March 2013 on the effects of the Hartz reforms on the German labour market states the same: labour law reforms have been accompanied by an increase in precarious employment. It also indicates that the low impact of the 2008-2009 crisis on the labour market is due less to these reforms than to greater internal flexibilities and high-quality social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, if you refuse to adopt the motion for referral to committee that I am about to defend, you will oblige us to consider a bill that is fertile ground for a precarious employment situation and whose measures are far removed from its title referring to a "strengthening of social dialogue". I will begin my intervention by criticizing the use of orders and the method used. I shall then turn to the measures you propose to take by order and the serious concerns they raise. First, the method. In his speech before Congress, the President of the Republic rightly recalled that it took time to discuss the law. This presidential speech is far from the reality of the parliamentary work we have been through so far. I would like to briefly recall the facts so that everyone who looks at us can take the measure. On Thursday, June 29, the text we were discussing was tabled at the office of our assembly. Four days later, on Monday, 3 July, we had to have tabled our amendments for consideration of the text in committee, when the rapporteur was not even appointed and our assembly had not yet voted for confidence in the Government. I do not even mention the fact that many of us did not have a desk or even a professional courier in the National Assembly. Forty-eight hours later, on Wednesday, 5 July, we began the examination of the text in the Committee on Social Affairs at 4.00 p.m., after hearing the trade union organisations in the morning. Three committee meetings were then held for an express examination of the text, during which not one of the 150 amendments tabled by the opposition was received favourably by the rapporteur and was therefore not adopted by our committee. As you can see, we are far from the speech of the President of the Republic before Congress on the need to legislate without rushing. Ladies and gentlemen, the only material conditions for examining the text in committee and the deadlines to which we have been submitted would justify referring the bill back to committee. Unfortunately, the reasons for this referral to committee do not stop there: they are also due to the use of orders. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not simply asked to work in haste; Above all, we are asked, Mr rapporteur, to move from a role of actors to a role of mere observers. This is a renunciation of democratic confrontation and serene debate on key issues that affect the daily lives of our citizens. Then you justify the use of orders by the emergency. I understand that you are on this ground, since the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council requires you to do so. But is the urgency real when the impact assessment presents a timetable for six major projects to be spread over 18 months? The Council of State itself shares our concerns. In his notice to you, he notes that "the bill contains a very large number of authorizations allowing the Government to make orders on subjects of unequal scope and complexity". He drew the Government's attention to "the consequences of such a choice, in terms of the hierarchy of priorities, the timing and the time required to prepare these various reforms". Only urgency and a particular technicality can justify the use of prescriptions. But where is the urgency even as we look at one of the very first texts of the new legislature? And what technicality can the Government avail itself of, of which Parliament would be unable? Is it the capping of damages in the event of unfair dismissal? Our assembly has already discussed this. The working Republic Group must know this, since its president was the general rapporteur of the law for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities. This law has also created a scale: it is a benchmark for determining the amount of the allowance that may be awarded, in particular on the basis of seniority, age and whether or not the person will be in employment. Moreover, if both parties so request, the judge is obliged to strictly apply this scale. Is it the new scope of the economic dismissal, which would sign the end of the solidarity between a parent company and its subsidiaries? In order to reduce the scope of assessment of the economic situation of companies belonging to a group to companies located in the national territory, you place foreign investment above the social rights of employees, even though the case law of the Court of Cassation invites the judges of the merits to take account of the situation of all companies in the group belonging to the same sector of activity. Is this the personal account of prevention of penitibility, the C3P? You want to ease the reporting obligations of exposures by redefining the conditions for assessing exposure to certain factors of penitibility and compensation. The C3P is a fundamental social step forward, since it allows employees exposed to difficult working conditions to gain access to less difficult jobs through training, to reduce their working time without loss of pay or to retire earlier. By combining the prevention of the treatment of situations of penitibility at the time they occur and the repair of exposures to penitibility, the 2013 reform provides a response to the challenge of penitibility at work. Concrete solutions were adopted in June 2014 to help operationally the professional branches and companies, in particular the smallest of them, to identify the exposures of their employees in a secure environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u174	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u175	These solutions make it possible to implement this major social innovation. These employment patterns have already facilitated the implementation of the C3P for one million employees, particularly for SMEs. This proves that the scheme is not impossible to implement. During the presidential campaign, you committed yourself in writing to the trade union organisations to carry out first a precise analysis of the situation, through the formation of a mission involving more professional branches. What about it? I would also like to express my concern at the statements made this weekend by the Prime Minister, who intends to move from a preventive system to a medical repair system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u176	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u177	These examples clearly show that the alleged technicality cannot justify the use of orders. Madam Minister, let us be honest: these "legislative orders" of a different age are primarily intended to short-circuit our assembly and to avoid a serious and serene parliamentary debate. Let me turn to the substance of the provisions. A recent study indicates that more than 60% of French people are concerned about your reform of the labour code. We are, too, and it cannot be said that the express examination of the nine articles of the text in the Committee on Social Affairs has reassured us! In the face of the substantive questions that we raised, the rapporteur invoked the ongoing consultation with the trade unions. In view of the concerns raised by the vagueness of the provisions, the rapporteur asked us to trust the Government. The rapporteur systematically gave an unfavorable opinion on the proposals we made. Madam Minister, at your hearing by our committee, you said that this text was a menu, and that did not mean that we were going to order all the dishes. Beyond the fact that we often find it difficult to see what dish is hidden behind the proposed titles, we want to tell you that some of us seem particularly indigestible. The text proposes to open up the issue of precarious contracts, including CSDs, by allowing the branch agreement to change the duration, reasons and number of renewals of CSDs and acting contracts. We criticise the duality of the labour market in France and the increasing use of precarious employment in our country, but by opening up the possibility of derogation from the law on this point to the branch agreement, companies are encouraged even more to use these jobs, while one third of the CSDs of less than a month in Europe are concluded in France. The same questions arise concerning the construction contract, which already exists in the BTP. Why make more use of this contract, which is more precarious than a CSD since its term is not known and it does not give rise to the payment of a precarious allowance? How could territories with an unemployment rate above 27% – I am thinking here in Mayotte and I will come back to that at the end of my speech – benefit from a contract that even worsens an already very precarious labour market? The Government is considering raising the threshold for a plan to safeguard employment from 10 to 30 employees. Under this threshold, this would therefore be an individual economic dismissal. The impact assessment justifies this provision by referring to the Council Directive of 20 July 1998 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective redundancies. This threshold has been enshrined in our labour law for almost thirty years and has never been contested. It is an important guarantee in terms of social dialogue, but also in terms of the prospect of a return to employment. I could continue to enumerate the provisions which, in our view, constitute a major decline in social rights in our country. But I do not want to interfere with the discussion that we would have had if this motion for referral to committee were not adopted. However, I would like to share with you a final reflection on a subject which has raised, I must say, a great astonishment on my part. In fact, the overseas countries are completely absent from this text, even though our territories are experiencing difficulties and many specificities in economic, social or simply geographical matters. I note, moreover, that we have been several ultramarine Members, from different political groups, to regret and deplore this omission. I must remember that overseas in general, and La Réunion – which I am proud to represent in this assembly – in particular, are an integral and constitutive part of the French nation. Our nearly 3 million ultramarine compatriots must therefore benefit fully from the country's solidarity, as recalled in Article 1 of the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas. Let me stress the singularities and diversity of situations in our territories so that everyone understands that the law cannot be applied uniformly. Geography is the first of these specificities. Remote from continental Europe, overseas countries are not yet fully anchored in their ocean basins and sometimes still suffer from unfavourable international treaties. This geographical situation creates an economic constraint: the narrowness of our markets where competition often remains unsatisfactory. Another singularity, the economic and social situation in our territories is of particular concern. In Mayotte, for example, the unemployment rate reached 27% in 2016. At La Réunion, this rate was 22 per cent, and not less than 44 per cent for young people. That's almost double the national average! In the face of such labour instability, how could the increase in the thresholds of the employment security plan be accepted? Our remoteness also has consequences for our economic organization. Our economic fabric is composed by a very large majority – more than 95% – of small or very small enterprises: this is a parameter that must be taken into account in order not to make the proposed reform harmful, harmful to our territories. Although, materially, we did not have time to work on the committee's report on the substance, we have tabled amendments that would correct, within the draft, the abyssal imbalance between the ubiquitous flexibility and the creation of new rights for employees, who are currently absent subscribers. I am thinking first of all of the issue of employee directors in large companies. The presence of employees on the boards of directors is indeed an asset for the company, not only in social terms, but also in strategic terms. We have therefore tabled amendments designed to go further in strengthening this presence, in order to devote a long-term governance model and to diversify the skills and experience of directors, which are key factors in the performance of companies. Such a development would be fully in line with the objective of strengthening social dialogue, and hence the performance of companies, by developing a form of employee representation and participation capable of fostering such dialogue. Secondly, I am thinking of the taxation of short-term contracts: we have tabled an amendment that would effectively combat the proliferation of precarious contracts by encouraging the use of open-ended contracts, the conclusion of which would be made easier. With these few examples we want to demonstrate that there is a path to progressive reform and that we are not doomed to choose between a liberal response, efficiency and questionable justice, and permanent conservatism. Madam Minister, the rapporteur, I will end my remarks by calling on you to respond in substance to the criticisms that we will make throughout these debates, not just to refer the subject to consultation or to reply to us with slogans or artifice of communication. Ladies and gentlemen, both the substantive and the formal arguments that I have been able to put forward call for the adoption of this motion to be referred back to committee. Our Assembly must be able to take the time to consult with stakeholders, to evaluate all the legislative arrangements and to propose strong measures to respond effectively to the challenges we face. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the GDR group and the FI group]] It is not the reform of the Labour Code that will bring about the emergence of a right to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u178	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u179	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u180	While thanking you for your comments, Mrs Bareigts, I am fully committed to answering your questions in substance during the debates today and in the coming days on all the issues that you and your colleagues have addressed. That is all the interest and the stakes of our debate in this House. With regard to the motion for referral back to committee, I am not in favour of it because I believe that we have already had a good debate in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u181	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u182	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Before I mention it, I would like to point out that the procedure of orders, far from being outside the ordinary law, is provided for in our constitution – it seems to me that this has been a little forgotten. It is used in emergency situations, under certain conditions. As a reminder, it has been used for two of the five Auroux laws, as well as for women's voting rights and for the creation of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u183	Positive measures for workers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u184	I would also like to thank Members from all quarters of the House for their record and constant presence in committee, which I welcome. A real substantive debate was held, with disagreements, of course, but a high quality of intervention on the part of parliamentarians. I also thank the rapporteur, who replied in substance for each of the 233 amendments tabled, and the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Brigitte Bourguignon, who allowed me to attend and participate in the whole of the debate. We have already had the opportunity to talk about the method. I would like to return for a moment to one point which I believe is essential: our collective responsibility. To the extent that Article L1 of the Labour Code recognises the role of the social partners, on all matters relating to this Code, we must make political democracy and social democracy work together and interactively. That is also the philosophy of this enabling bill and the way we conduct the debate. We also want to inform parliamentarians about the state of consultation with the social partners. If necessary, it will be necessary to clarify, as I have begun to do in committee, the measures that we intend to adopt, not the letter of orders, but the spirit of these texts, which will then be submitted to the social partners at the end of the summer. Finally, the debates in the committee allowed us to meet at the sitting to discuss more in-depth subjects which you wanted to see in depth, such as teleworking, the digital labour code or taking account of the specificities of the TPEs. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Here we go. I look forward to the beginning of this debate, in substance, because I believe that we will all benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u185	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u186	We will naturally be opposed to this referral to committee, for several reasons. On the form, we have extended the deadline for tabling amendments by 48 hours. The choice of the rapporteur, which you mentioned, Mrs Bareigts, has in no way prevented parliamentarians from using their right of amendment. Furthermore, I would point out that everyone was able to speak during the debate in committee, with the means of their choice. Some groups focused on amendments – although sometimes repetitive, all received an answer –; Others have chosen the debate. All the groups were able to express themselves, and the same was true of the social partners' hearings. In total, the majority intervened nine times, the opposition twenty-seven times. I invite everyone to read our report to judge the contribution of each other. Finally, allow me to point out that the rapporteur has not only provided succinct answers, but has replied both in substance and in form to each of the amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We cannot therefore refer this text back to committee: this would not change the content of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u187	In explanation of vote, Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont spoke for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u188	The Republican Group has listened well to the various arguments put forward in favour of referral back to committee. It must be noted that they are hardly convincing. [["You're right! » on the benches of the GDR group]] Of course, we all regret the form chosen by the Government to pass this key reform for our country, for the French and French, i.e. the use of ordinances. Our fears of a third social tour are well-founded. As we have said, we believe that the exchanges that should have taken place in this Chamber could have avoided the pitfall that will arise before us in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u189	Let's try!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u190	I hope so. That this motion to refer to committee in order to allow more time for debate should be defended by the Socialist Group, which was once a supporter of Rule 49(3) on the same subject, makes us smile softly. For the lessons of democracy, we'll come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u191	You didn't do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u192	[[Exclaims on FI, GDR and NG benches]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we know the fate of any amendment tabled in committee by a group other than the majority. This fate is the vote against, implacable, without any other form of trial. A referral to committee would therefore mean a new game of billiards between an aphone majority, a dogmatic left opposition
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u193	And there is no right-wing opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u194	...and a government deaf to any form of legislative co-construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u195	Only Mr Dumont has the floor. Go on, Mr. Dumont.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, in order to avoid giving back to the French the sad spectacle seen in committee, we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u197	Mr Mignola, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u198	Nor will we associate ourselves with this motion for referral to committee. Of course, we must have an in-depth debate, but in view of this desire to keep the debate going in committee, I must remind myself that legislation of an economic or social nature will only bear fruit 12 to 18 months after its adoption. However, in the economic situation in our country, we can no longer afford to wait and wait. Moreover, many of us here believe that our country has become attractive again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u199	It's not because of labour law!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u200	It became more so for external reasons, because the effects of Brexit or the position adopted by the President of the Republic towards the President of the United States enabled France to regain its rank. However, it is not enough for France to be attractive because of external causes: for each and every employee of our companies, we must make it attractive by endogenous measures. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Our colleague accused this text of favouring precarisation. I don't believe it. We must remember that there is no reversal in the hierarchy of norms, that the law, the convention and the branch will remain. With this enabling bill, it is simply a matter of enabling companies, in the field, to have better account taken of differences in trade or territory. I have also heard in Mrs Bareigts' argument that we are advocating unfair dismissals, but that is not the case. The benchmark will apply only to damages awarded in the event of dismissal without real and serious cause, not to dismissals "damaged by an employer's fault of exceptional gravity". In the latter case, the advice of prud'hommes will be able to continue to pronounce themselves in their soul and conscience, with the utmost severity, if necessary. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] All these elements could, of course, be the subject of further debate in committee. But the opposition must admit that our positions are different. While respecting the legitimate convictions of the minority, we believe that it would be unnecessary to come back to committee to say the same things again, because we could not convince it anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u201	Francis Vercamer, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u202	[["A minister! » on the benches of the GDR group]] It's pretty bad to hear a former minister who is a member of a rule 49, paragraph 3, government explain to us that we must respect Parliament. However, I cannot criticise the New Left Group on the choice of the person to whom it is speaking. On the substance, the work in committee went well. Of course, we have not had much time to table amendments, but the rapporteur has always tried to explain his opinion clearly, even if I would have preferred him to be more often in favour of our amendments. This phase, although short, was therefore quite constructive. It has made it possible to shed light on a number of provisions contained in this text, and I therefore do not see the point of returning to it or of deferring the debate to the sitting. Also, the Constructive Group will not vote on this motion to refer. Nevertheless, we have tabled new amendments at the sitting, which supplement or modify the proposals we made in committee. I count on the Minister and the rapporteur to pay close attention to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u203	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u204	We must agree, we have not discovered the principle of ordinances: it had been announced. However, I would like to convey to you a conviction, which, like many of you, is elected for the first time: there can be no great reforms, on subjects that engage the daily lives of our fellow citizens, which say something about the society in which we want to live, without much debate. The procedure that has been adopted, however, has stalemated the citizen's debate, blurred the social dialogue and bypassed the parliamentary debate. This country, in the state in which it is – this House must remember – this country where less than one in two French citizens went to the polls does not need less citizen debate, less social dialogue, less parliamentary debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you with sincerity: any opposition is not necessarily cynical; Any disagreement is not and will not necessarily be a refusal to face the world. We can even share certain objectives while at the same time disagreeing about the ways in which they can be achieved, without it being a matter of overtness or posture. We too are committed to social dialogue and to the social partners. But the parliamentary debate is not urgent: it is expeditious. He has not been able to dispel our concerns. The barometer of your action in the coming months will probably be unemployment, which has been falling for a year now, but it will be above all inequality, poverty and the quality of employment. Despite the hard work being done in committee, today we are unable to assess the balance of the reform, to assess whether or not a balance will be found with the social partners, in particular with regard to the securing of career paths, especially since you have postponed the inextricable elements of this reform: the reform of unemployment insurance and the reform of vocational training. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] I am telling you with sincerity, and that is why we are asking for referral back to committee: we are one of those who want to see to believe; You're asking us to believe to see. This is obviously not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u205	Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u206	[[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Like some other groups, we support referring the text back to committee, because it seems that the time for dialogue – which seems to us to be so dear to all, beyond our divisions – has really missed. The extreme haste of the presidential majority, often emphasized, calls on national representation to an emergency that does not allow it to assume its responsibility properly and quietly. Indeed, if none of our 132 amendments have been accepted, we prefer to think that it is for lack of time, and therefore there is no point in discussing it again: otherwise, it would mean that dialogue does not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u207	Mrs Huguette Bello, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u208	Referral to committee is justified first of all by the difficulties already mentioned, caused by the too short deadlines for tabling amendments in committee and in committee. This brevity further weakens Parliament's fundamental task as a legislator. Above all, more deeply, the referral to committee would give a chance to resolve the contradiction between, on the one hand, the requirement of security of the employee, which has been repeatedly proclaimed in the explanatory memorandum and in government speeches, and, on the other hand, the instability which several measures will not fail to create. Thus the CDI which will be caught between the creation of the CDI project and the new CSDs whose duration or renewal will no longer necessarily be limited. Thus the removal of the labour judge, e.g. through the presumption of regularity of company agreements or the baremisation of the labour court. And what about the referendum at the initiative of employers, which pretends to forget the situation of subordination of employees in the company? Referral to the committee would also make it possible to take real account of the particular situation of TPEs and SMEs. Contrary to what might have been expected from a text aimed at strengthening social dialogue, SMEs are not at the centre of the debate, even though they employ more than 50% of employees and are largely without trade unions. In the overseas countries, which account for more than 95 % of TPEs and SMEs, this white page is of particular concern. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the FI group]] Finally, I have noted that the consultation with the social partners and, no doubt, the parliamentarians must continue until September, but I am convinced that it will be all the more fruitful as the scope of the authorisation will be more narrowed. A further review in committee could usefully contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u209	Mr Sylvain Maillard, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u210	Mr Vallaud, this country needs action. As Mr Vercamer has pointed out, the debates in committee have taken place in a calm manner, whether it be the hearing of the Minister, the hearing of the social partners or the article-by-article examination. This enabling bill goes in the right direction, stressing that freedom to undertake is compatible with the protection of employees. It takes into account the reality of today's world. It trusts social democracy, the social partners, collective bargaining and social dialogue in the company. With regard to the decentralization of negotiations, the law must define broad principles, but not detail. With regard to the baremisation of damages before the prud'hommes, do not make a mistake: the legal and conventional compensations for dismissal are not affected by the reform. Dismissal benefits are prescribed by law or by the collective agreement. The reform will only allow for greater equity for employees and will restore confidence to employers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The programme of the President of the Republic is clear. There's no hidden calendar. You know that. The French have approved this project, we are living proof of it. Rejecting this project or delaying its review would be artificially offensive to them. It is essential that this motion not be adopted in order to consider the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u211	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u212	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u213	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u214	In the general debate, Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u215	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly is called upon to consider its first bill. It is a major project, because it tackles one of the priority projects of this new legislature: work and employment. While the previous President of the Republic had made the fight against unemployment a priority, repeatedly promising a reversal of its curve, France has never experienced such an increase in jobseekers. It should be recalled, especially to those who think they have left the country in a much better condition: between May 2012 and May 2017, there are 583,000 additional category A jobseekers and 1216500 for categories A, B and C. I will not even address the calamity of public finances, denounced by the Court of Auditors. In the face of this situation, we are in absolute urgency. Every effort must be made to combat the scourge of unemployment. Your text, Madam Minister, intends to be a first response. True to its values, the Group of Republicans will address its discussion in an open, proactive, but also attentive and vigilant manner. Minister, you have complied with section L1 of the Labour Code, which has not always been the case in the previous Parliament. This article, which is the result of the law on the modernization of social dialogue, known as "Larcher", obliges the Government to consult the social partners when it wishes to legislate on social matters. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and you have received, and still receive, employers' representatives and workers' unions. If social democracy has its full place and importance in a project like this – and you recalled it – we must not forget political democracy, namely the role of the National Assembly, the representative of the French people. On this point, Madam Minister, the method chosen is questionable. The conditions for consideration of this text in this House are not acceptable. So we were forced to hear you when the deadline for tabling amendments was already closed; and the Committee on Social Affairs had to meet urgently. More seriously, you are asking us to vote for a text allowing you to legislate instead of Parliament, without even knowing the content of the orders. When we ask you specific questions about it, about the direction you are going to take, you are unable to answer us, because you are still in consultation with the social partners. This is in complete contradiction with the remarks made by the President of the Republic during his speech at the Congress in Versailles, according to which it is necessary to take the time to legislate. Is this a way of governing that will become a habit on all bills or will you respect the rights of Parliament in this new legislature? The text demonstrates the limit to the exercise of orders. However, I was surprised to see that people who had resorted to Rule 49(3), which, in my view, is far more annoying and more serious, were defending a motion to refer to committee... In committee, in response to a proposal for an amendment from our group, the rapporteur replied that "such a measure would result in restricting the possibilities offered to the Government in the enabling bill. I hope, for my part, that the scope of the consultation will be as broad as possible. » No, the rapporteur, Parliament does not have to give the widest possible scope to the Government. In accordance with our Constitution, Parliament can delegate its power to legislate to the Government, but to do so we need to define a clear framework for making orders. We don't have to sign a blank check. The Republicans, who want the success of France and its project, will not give it. When our colleague from France spoke to the committee about the fact that not a single amendment had been adopted, the reaction of the chairman of the committee was to say: "But of course! " I am therefore seriously asking the question, Madam Minister: do you consider Parliament to be a simple board of registration that would not have a say in it? Parliament is not the clerk of the social partners. But it is true that we did not hear much from our colleagues in the majority when we examined this text. I mean, on the bottom, I'll be a lot less severe. I cannot oppose proposals that I myself have put forward with my group over the last five years. In 2014, together with Christian Jacob, I drafted a bill to that effect, and we had repeatedly tabled amendments on these matters. The majority, some of which now belong to the new majority, had systematically rejected our proposals. Today, she's going to accept everything. It is unfortunate to have lost so much time, but as the adage says, it is better late than never.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u216	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u217	The main topics chosen by the project satisfy us. We are therefore in favour of securing branch agreements and extending company agreements. Decisions must be made at the closest to the field, in the companies themselves. However, it may be difficult for some companies, especially smaller ones, to use an enterprise agreement. It is therefore necessary to maintain industry agreements, not only to help and support SMEs, but also to ensure a minimum of coherence in the territory. Is this to be recalled, as you have done, Madam Minister: 95% of companies are small and medium-sized enterprises with less than fifty employees and 55% of the employed employment in our country is in these companies? There is a need for a legislative framework that is flexible enough to adapt to different situations. This question will, for us, be a red line. The merger of the bodies representing the staff and the possibility of involving the trade union delegate are in the right direction. We will also propose that you be more ambitious and bold. The multiplication of meetings becomes a real puzzle for businesses, and the social dialogue needs to be simplified and clarified. It is also not illogical to merge bodies that often include the same people. You are also taking up the issue of labour, a problem that the previous government has not had the courage to solve, and you are setting up a schedule of allowances. This measure may seem unfair to employees. Yet, she will recreate employment. Indeed, entrepreneurs have a real fear of hiring, especially because of the social and financial risks they may incur. In some homicidal courts, compensation can be up to such an amount that companies have been forced to close their doors by dismissing all staff. To this is added the disparity in the amount of compensation according to the labour court on which the company depends. It is therefore essential to implement this measure. We are also in favour of better recognition of the union fact in the company, and the union cheque can be an interesting tool. Similarly, securing employees' journeys must be a priority. The social dialogue in the company works if the trade union representatives are truly and concretely representative of the employees. Finally, it is essential to simplify the penitibility account, and it is for the Republicans the second red line of this text. The system is too complex: it is a hindrance to the development of enterprises. Today, and I take this opportunity to thank him, the newspaper Les Échos, which, by informing Parliament, replaces the Government, tells us that the executive would give up four completely unapplicable criteria in the company. We can welcome this, but we will remain vigilant about the reality of this simplification, which must not be merely a semantic change, shifting the penitence account to a preventive one. In this regard, I had proposed that penitibility be treated upstream: more preventive, less curative. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, as the dialogue continues, how are you going to respect the rights of Parliament? How will you keep him up-to-date on the evolution of prescriptions? It is essential to involve Parliament as soon as possible and throughout the process. As you can see, the Republicans group is open to the enabling law, but will be very attentive to the content of the ordinances, especially in the place of companies with less than fifty employees and the preventive professional account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u218	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u219	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first concern of our fellow citizens is unemployment. The priority we have all shown in the long series of electoral campaigns that is ending, and whatever the benches we now occupy in this House, is the fight against unemployment. While our country, with the election of the President of the Republic, has returned with hope, it is on our ability to achieve results against this scourge that our citizens remain the most perplexed. They're right; France is the country that, when the world grows, grows the least. It is in our country that growth, whether weak or powerful, produces the least jobs. This statistic, which has become an antienne of all commentators in the world, sounds like a quadrennial resignation here. It is our duty to overcome this resignation and to give us the means, quickly. On behalf of the Democratic Movement, I am therefore pleased that the Government is proposing an enabling law enabling us to take the first steps quickly to revive the economic and social dynamics of our country. I would like to stress with satisfaction that it has chosen the strengthening of social dialogue as its primary objective, as it is the prerequisite and indispensable for the paradigm shift to which we are called. This is at stake for us in this law: a new society. In this general discussion, we would like first of all to describe the spirit which we believe should underpin the Government's dialogue with the trade unions, our amendments aimed not at restricting the scope of the discussions but at clarifying or improving the guidelines which were presented by the rapporteur Pietraszewski. We need to move quickly, aim justly and allow the country to better transform growth into jobs. First, go fast. As Jean-Louis Debré, former President of the Constitutional Council and of this assembly, recently observed, our country has always reformed its labour legislation using urgent procedures: whether it is President Mitterrand in 1982, General de Gaulle in 1959, and even the Popular Front in the summer of 1936 – the equivalent procedure at the time was called decree-laws. The recurring choice of this method is rich in lessons. Our social history, more often marked by conflict than by soothing negotiation, is probably not for nothing in the procrastination that makes the right decisions suddenly so urgent. I see it as a good resolution for the new majority, which embodies a new way of acting: that of no longer giving in to delays and supporting this urgent action. I observe that from 1936 to 1959, then from 1959 to 1982, the gap was a quarter of a century; But since 1982, thirty-five years have passed. During this period, with the exception of amendments which, to be numerous, were hardly part of a global modernization of the labour code, we have done little to adapt our laws to the movements of society. But in 1982, we communicated at best with the Minitel: still reason to accept the urgency! For, ladies and gentlemen, notwithstanding the postures that would present these future ordinances as a great evening, it must be admitted: by changing labour law, they will transform society less than they will adapt the law to a society that has already changed. The world has changed, businesses are increasingly diverse, business models are protiform. And here in the National Assembly, we did not have enough entrepreneurs and employees among the deputies to confront Parliament with the real. In order to move quickly, we must therefore support this text because, in addition to being an enabling law that mandates the Government to dialogue with trade union representatives, it is, in our view, a law for the rehabilitation of rulers who now choose to hear better what companies say and expect outside our assemblies. I also believe, Madam Minister, that the Government has rightly focused on its priorities. Firstly, social dialogue: between you and the unions, I said, for today, but of course within companies for tomorrow. If we want to look at the causes of this French exception that we recalled earlier – the recurrent under-production of jobs, even in times of global growth – we can learn about the work of many economists who analyzed the components of growth since the Second World War. The Solow model, corroborated by the French Carré, Dubois and Malinvaud, has long shown that human capital is more important to support development than the only capital-labour couple. Technical progress, education, creativity and culture enhance and enhance – or not – the growth produced by the quantitative addition of capital and labour alone. These less measurable elements – the quality of people and institutions, human capital – are the main ones, which must be able to express themselves in a real social dialogue, bringing about successful collective success in companies. The French evil, the one that makes us drag when others run, is to live under a right based on the confrontation between capital and work of supposedly irreconcilable interests, whose litigation should be regulated. But no, the company is not a ring whose labour code would be the referee! In an SME like the one I run, when the works council meets, it's between people who are supposed to face different interests, while an hour later, in a management meeting, the same people will try to agree on the best possible organisation and how to explain it to all others, so that the company carries out its business, the quality of its work and the wages of each. The company is not the synonym of the boss in its most pejorative sense, a kind of predatory thug against employees that should be protected through unions that would necessarily be conservative and unconscious of the general interest. No, a business is a common good, which grows and endures if and only if an iterative dialogue lives there permanently. Of course I hear ridiculers denouncing this description as necessarily angelic, only adapted to SMEs. It would ignore the heavy struggles among large groups, where shareholders and employees can not keep up with each other. It is worth recalling that in these groups, social dialogue is already organised on the basis of structured HRDs and trade unions and that business agreements are mostly more favourable than industry recommendations. But manufactured for the possible excesses of the big ones, the labor code is mainly used – and its thickness, or even its contradictions, suffered – by the small ones. For the first time, by adopting a new model, can this text make the law not for those who know it by heart, but for those, Madam Minister, that she worries when they apply it! Yes, we need business agreements that adapt to the terrain, differences and ongoing developments of economic entities. Our problems arise from the uniformity of rules applicable to various situations. This is not an inversion of the hierarchy of norms: the law, the convention, the branch will have to remain in order to secure the employee and guarantee his professional mobility, as well as to preserve the company from possible unfair competition. It is simply a question of giving us a chance to adapt to the complexity of situations. Yes, we need simplified, agile and therefore more respected employee representation bodies, so that they become corporate councils where we decide together to succeed together rather than to get lost in successive and artificially conflicting meetings. Yes, we need ceilings and floors for homicidal conflicts: first, to prevent the same causes from producing different effects depending on the companies or territories; Then, to have solid and reassuring floors and ceilings that encourage conciliation rather than bottling of the courts. Prud'hommes must punish serious attitudes, harassment or discrimination, wherever they come from, rather than manoeuvring between bell sounds or unstable procedures. By revitalizing social dialogue as close as possible to the ground and by securing its rules, we will pose the first act of the new economic society that France needs. It will have to go – and we will be particularly attentive to it – through a global vision integrating the reduction of wage costs in order to better pay work, the opening of unemployment insurance to resignations and self-employed people, the profound reform of our vocational training and apprenticeships, and a new pension system. We can reinvent the French social model, solidify its foundations, guarantee its fair financing, adapt its organisation to the new models of work, but support it with a social dialogue that is finally modern and confident. That the law preserves excesses, but that the contract finally recognizes the true wealth of our economy: its human capital. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and the REM group]] In setting the framework of the ordinances for the Government, we recall that it is the spirit of the law and this global vision that must feed the discussion that has begun between the Government and the social partners, so that France, in accordance with the beautiful formula of the former keeper of the seals, will find as much freedom as possible and as much solidarity as necessary, and that, finally, any economic progress in our country will translate into jobs for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u220	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u221	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are starting to examine today deals with a topic, that of the rules governing the labour market, which is particularly symbolic of our country's report to the idea of reform. Between the need to act in order to adapt our legislation to its time and the risk of mobilising oppositions from all sides, until the blockage, the public debate has been regularly oscillated, for more than thirty years, between the ambitions of change and immobilism. That is why the Constructive Group welcomes the fact that the legislature begins to address this issue. For beyond the sole subject of the Labour Code, it is indeed employment that is, in the end, the subject of this text. Employment was one of the biggest failures of the previous quinquennium with its famous reversal of the unemployment curve without reality. Let us be sure: it will still be on the job that this mandate will be judged by our fellow citizens. Let us be clear from the outset: it is not the reform of our labour law that alone can be the key to reducing unemployment in our country. We all know how much the return to growth and job creation is the result of an array of factors and measures that promote investment, research, training, business creation, and the development of infrastructure, whether conventional or digital. But it is also clear that a labour law that allows for rapid adaptation to changes in the world, a more legible labour law, more predictable for both the employee and the employer, constitutes a legal environment that secures and encourages activity. Our group therefore shares with the Government the view that labour law reform is a key issue for our country. Nevertheless, we are sceptical about the method used, i.e. the use of orders. We do not question the Government's right to do so: the Constitution allows it to do so. But if the objective is to achieve a set of texts that bring together as many people as possible around new principles and truly structuring measures, then it would be preferable for national representation to make its contribution to the architecture as well as to the content of the reform. However, the use of orders deprives her of this opportunity. It is all the more regrettable that last week's examination of the text in committee was not conducive to the quality of parliamentary work: the amendments were tabled without a prior hearing by the Minister or the social partners, which shows a willingness to move forward on a forced basis. We strongly hope that the Government will be more respectful of a Parliament that is not intended to be just a recording chamber. That is why we want national representation, through parliamentary groups, to be involved in the drafting of orders. Indeed, if we can join in a number of principles set out in this bill, Members of Parliament who are members of Parliament cannot be content with knowing nothing about the mechanisms that will enable it to be implemented and that are evolving at the pace of discussions with the social partners. Overall, however, our group sees the proposed reform as an opportunity to update our labour legislation around four objectives: a more legible labour law for both the employer and the employee, more in line with the realities of the company; a more flexible labour law that takes into account the changing world and the ever-faster technologies; a labour law which reconciles the essential security of the employee with the legal security of the employer; a labour law which is based more on negotiation in the company, without denying the regulatory framework of the industry. We will also be vigilant on this point. Our group is traditionally committed to social dialogue in all its forms. We therefore welcome the fact that the company is finally recognised as a place for a renewed and innovative social dialogue because it is in the hands of actors – employers and employees – involved in its organisation, operation and future. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that this approach does not favour situations of unfair competition between undertakings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u222	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u223	The professional branch has a regulatory role that must not be called into question, particularly important for the TPEs, SMEs and their employees. It must be preserved. In addition, we share several of the objectives set out in this bill. Thus, making social dialogue more accessible means first of all simplifying the organisation of the bodies in which it is to take place. From this point of view, the establishment of a merged body of staff representation is in the right direction. However, we will pay attention to the way in which the prerogatives of the merged bodies will be effectively exercised in the company, in particular those relating to working conditions and the safety of employees. With regard to securing the employment relationship, our group welcomes with interest the measures aimed at securing the dismissal procedure, both for the employer and for the employee. In the same spirit, we believe it is necessary that an error of form cannot be punished in the same way as a mistake of substance. We also agree with the Government's willingness to encourage conciliation before the Labour Council. Similarly, securing the financial compensation of dismissal irregularities seems to us to be an objective which meets the need to remove the legal uncertainties which may constitute an obstacle to hiring. As far as the scale of damages is concerned, however, I would like to reiterate in my personal capacity the reservations expressed in committee. If I agree with the desire to introduce greater predictability of the financial compensation for dismissal without a real and serious cause, I would like to draw attention to the risk, over time, of the ceilings being applied systematically, up to the point of turning into floors. We also note with interest that the enabling bill provides for encouraging the forward-looking management of jobs and skills. Finally, we share the objective of simplifying the system of the personal penitential account. To take into account the hardness of the work in order to better accompany the employee in his career is indeed an indisputable necessity. However, it must be noted that the implementation of the current personal account for preventing penitibility is complex for businesses, especially for SMEs and TPEs – which is why the scheme had to be simplified in order to make it workable for employers. If it addresses several concerns and avenues for reform that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Constructives have advanced for several years, but your text neglects several points, and we regret it. It is a pity, in particular, that in the area of organizing social dialogue, the enabling bill does not propose anything that relates to the bodies for the representation of staff in the public sector. I have noted that the civil service does not fall within your jurisdiction, but the Government could at least have indicated its intentions in this area. Similarly, I regret that the question of the funding of trade union and professional organisations participating in the social dialogue is not being addressed. Indeed, since it occupies a greater place in the development of the norm, social dialogue must be based on unquestionable legitimacy. This legitimacy is based first on the measurement of the representativeness of the actors in the social dialogue, the modalities of which have been modernised. It is then based on the transparency of the funding of trade unions and professional organisations participating in the social dialogue. True, real progress has been made within the framework of the law in recent years, but we should go further in order to remove any questions about the functioning of our social democracy. Our group is also surprised that, with regard to the organisation of social dialogue in the company and the bodies representing staff, the bill does not address the issue of staff thresholds that require the creation of certain bodies, particularly in the TPEs and SMEs with fewer than 50 employees. Thus, there would be 2.6 times more companies with 49 employees than 50, 1.7 times more companies with 19 employees than 20 and 1.8 times more companies with 9 employees than 10. It is possible to envisage that in times of crisis, when the relationships between competing companies in their markets are strained, the implementation of new administrative obligations at the time of these workforce thresholds will have a deterrent effect both on the growth of the enterprise and the creation of jobs. This subject should therefore be dealt with, and our group will present you with amendments to this effect. Finally, we regret that there is no more room for experimentation in this bill. It would certainly be a pity, therefore, to prohibit in principle any initiative to experiment with a single contract of employment with progressive rights. This could put an end to the dichotomy between the CDI and the CDD, and to this chaotic phase of entry into the labour market of which too many young people suffer, blocked for many years in the set of successive CDDs before obtaining their first CDI. [[Applause on the benches of the Constructive Group]] That is our approach, Madam Minister, Mr. Rapporteur, at this time, to the enabling bill. As you can see, it is in a constructive spirit that our group is approaching this debate, anxious to make its own contribution to your project and aware of the public interest issue underlying the whole text. We expect the same attitude from the majority and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u224	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u225	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we share your objective of social dialogue, but we would like you, Madam Minister, to share our objective of parliamentary dialogue. By means of an order procedure, you ask us to give up parliamentary dialogue, in the name of the effectiveness of social dialogue. You will agree, Madam Minister, that may give rise to some doubts and concerns about your real desire for social dialogue. You ask us to sign a blank cheque to reform the labour law of 17 million employees in the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u226	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u227	Madam Minister, you thus become the first Minister of Labour of the Fifth Republic not to take on the dialogue with the national representation for a reform of labour law of such magnitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u228	That's not true. Even the unions say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u229	That dialogue should have been constructive. Instead, today we are condemned to debate in general, while in the matter of writing the law, the devil hides in detail, and sometimes the devil is fat. During this general discussion, I would like to address three points. First of all, you invite us to authorize you to make an order to make mandatory termination rates, without providing us with any evaluation of the Macron Act which has endorsed indicative rates for compensation for dismissals. Nine months after the publication of the decree on this provision – it took place in November 2016 – I imagine, however, that your ministry must have the statistics that would inform us. Have these indicative scales been followed by the prud'hommes? Have they been applied to redundancies in large companies, small ones? All these questions remain unanswered, which is all the more regrettable since during his speech in Versailles last week, the President of the Republic indicated that he "hopes that a full evaluation of all important texts be carried out". Of course, this assessment is planned after two years of application, but given the scale of labour law reform, it would have been useful for your department to provide us with the first assessments of the Macron law in the area of indicative scales.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u230	It's in the pre-assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u231	That's not in it. Another subject: Article 3(2) on the geographical scope in which difficulties justifying economic dismissal are appreciated. Today, we appreciate the strict sensu difficulties of a company that goes badly by also analysing the financial situation of the group to which it belongs. However, you propose to free yourself from this last analysis. Consequently, it may be that the law does not prohibit an undertaking from making economic redundancies, even though the group to which it belongs makes significant profits. You see, minister, I am elected in a riding where many Molex employees live. If your disposition had existed in 2009, these employees would never have won a case before the French court...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u233	... while the Toulouse Court of Appeal ruled in August 2016 that the dismissal of 191 of them had been carried out "without real and serious cause". If the arrangements you are about to make by order had prevailed at that time, the Toulouse Court of Appeal would have had no legal basis to defend Molex's employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u235	Madam Minister, I believe that the responsibility of a French government is to defend the French, not the foreign shareholders of multinationals. Finally, I come to the economic redundancies. Today, the law imposes a plan to safeguard employment for any company with more than fifty employees which terminates at least ten employees for economic reasons. You propose, at the same 2° of Article 3, to adapt "the modalities of economic dismissal to the size of the enterprise", without giving any precision. However, we hear here or there, on the radio, in the press, that you would like to raise the threshold of dismissed employees from ten to thirty, from which PSE becomes compulsory in all companies with more than fifty employees. If such a proposal were validated, a company of fifty-one employees could dismiss half of its workforce, or twenty-six employees, without the need to establish a PES! Do you think that's normal? We would like a concrete answer that would confirm, or not, what can be read in the press. In addition, you are about to change certain conditions that make it possible to qualify a dismissal as an economic one. Since 2000, the number of employees dismissed each year for economic reasons has fluctuated, according to your ministry's statistics, between 150000 and 200000 – a peak of 290000 having been reached in 2009 as a result of the crisis. Since 2012, according to DARES, the management of the animation of research, studies and statistics, two thirds of the employees, dismissed for economic reasons, benefit from a contract of professional security. Could you clarify, Madam Minister, the consequences for these people of an amendment to the definition of economic dismissal? Could they still benefit from the professional security contract? This question calls for a precise answer because it concerns two thirds of the 150000 to 200000 employees who are victims of economic redundancies each year. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to comment on the comments made by the President of the Eurogroup, with whom I was last week in Berlin. In his view, we would have succeeded in Europe in flexibility, but collectively we would not have been able to think about security, making flexi-security lucrative to those who defend social efficiency. Madam Minister, in your text, tell us where the safety of employees is, while the flexibility that you promote is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u236	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u237	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the Labour Code Reform Enabling Bill, the passage into force is necessary, imposed by the majority. Who can think that such a method could reconcile citizens with politics? First of all, in terms of form and method, the vast majority of citizens feel that they are deprived of democratic levers. This Assembly itself has a relative legitimacy as it is the result of an election with more than 50% abstention. Citizens feel that the majority elected do nothing for them. The last two legislatures have proved to be incredible austerity machines, at the origin of liberticide laws tracking the gains achieved after more than a hundred years of social struggles. Instead of trying to give this new assembly the means to become the tree bearing the fruits of reconciliation, by strengthening the debate, regardless of our ideological basis, and transparency in the eyes of the citizens, you want to make it a chamber of registration of technocratic measures dictated by the European authorities and by the employers' caste of the MEDEF. You are asking parliamentarians today not to play their part, not to debate. What are you afraid of? Whatever the subject, whatever the stakes, the parliamentary debate is, however, a guarantee of popular momentum. This decision will therefore be seen as an attack on democracy by a large part of the population, whether voting or not. More than 7 million people stood in favour of a 6th Republic last April, but for any answer, you use the most hostile procedures of the Fifth Republic. Let's get to the bottom. What is this new Labour Law? A text in complete continuity with the El Khomri law? A new passage in force? After the 49.3 of the Valls government, the ordinances? Have you forgotten the many demonstrations last spring and the popular hostility expressed against this project? [[Applause on the benches of the group La France insoumée]] No one, I say well, outside the MEDEF, wants a low-cost labour code, easier redundancies, less social gains. Yet that is what you intend to impose. How can you make such a speech to employees who have lost their jobs? To those who have been victims of social plans? To those who are struggling? I am thinking of the employees of Goodyear and Continental who, in the name of maximum profit, have lost their industrial tool; I am thinking of the employees of Tati, who pay for the wrong choices of their management; I am thinking of the current struggles being waged by the employees of GM and S, about which we have asked you. You want to make legal and acceptable what was unworthy until today. Employees need to be defended in the face of international capitalism that puts peoples in competition, in a society in the process of uberization in which everyone for himself reigns. [[Applause on the benches of La France insoumée]] [[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, people find elected officials increasingly disconnected from the realities they live on a daily basis. When I see this project, its content and the form by which you intend to make it pass, I think it's hard to blame them. Know that every time you propose such a text, such a method, you will find us in front of you, united, standing wind for the defense of the victims of your world, that of king money and overt flexibility. If people have elected a caregiver to the National Assembly, it is so that the daily lives of the people can be shouted in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u238	He will be!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u239	I don't forget why I'm here, and the professional life I lived before I came to sit with you. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Is this enabling law really an emergency? Isn't there any more worrying today in France? I am thinking of caregivers, farmers, insecure people, unemployed people, employees who end their lives! I've seen kids sleep in garbage! I've seen pregnant women sleeping in a tent in the middle of a canicle! I've seen people gathered around a pond of excrement! I've seen the unimaginable! I saw the inacceptable! And all this, I saw him on Saturday in Metz, Lorraine, France, the country of human rights! Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are you of course that the breakdown of the labour code is a real emergency in France today?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u240	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u241	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is on behalf of those who have been said to be nothing that I am presenting here today, on behalf of the employees who create the wealth of this country, on behalf of the workers – who have not disappeared, outside the television screens – in the name of those who are waiting for the day when asbestos will wake up in their lungs, on behalf of those who will never receive any pension, on behalf of those who are waiting for the return of a loved one every night, hoping that they will have some energy to devote to them, on behalf of those who hope or despair, in search of a real job where to flourish. I, too, am thinking of the employees of GM&amp;S, to whom the Government has taken the order to wait wisely for their fate to be born, thinking of this man who was broke by a driver because he was protesting against the Labour Law, to these gassed activists, in my constituency, to a trade union premises, to those hundreds of thousands of women and men who beat the pavement in the spring of last year against the Labour Law, on behalf of this majority who continued, last January, to call for its repeal. It is from the workshop, the construction site, the office, from the daily life of the vast majority, from its dignity, from its appetite for the future, that we must make the law of the coming world. The President has decided a coup de force. We have all been sent here, ladies and gentlemen, to make the law and not to abdicate that power. Strengthen the dialogue by ordinances... Recognize, Madam Minister, that it is croquignolet! You tell us that these orders are no less well founded than those that led to the Auroux Acts in 1982. But on the contrary, it was then for good progress. Today it is the confession of a spirit of revenge that animates you, and no doubt you will find in the Auroux laws a privileged target. You claim that the orders are legitimate since they were announced during the campaign: a threat never made its enforcement legitimate. What motivates this haste, if not the desire of MEDEF and your so-called successful friends, if not the fear that your plan will be challenged? You are probably afraid of popular mobilization and already fear on September 12th. In the course of the debates you have not justified anything, either on urgency or on your intentions. In fact, you do not assume anything in the open: your verb is blurred, you are in the artifice, you do not mean the real words, debate ideas; You hope to make us believe that we are facing technical questions, questions of common sense, when you pursue political objectives on a subject that is none other than the great contradiction of the world. You tell us: "Trust in social dialogue. But it is expected of you that in this so-called dialogue, so that it does not turn to the boss monologue, the public authorities will hold their rank, at least they will show intentions, because we are in a violent social and economic crisis. You have the wrong diagnosis: the people responsible for this crisis are not the employees who would have too much rights or too much wages, but the big owners of finance: 46 billion dividends will be paid to shareholders in 2017, as last year. Minister, they must be taken from the source! Yet, if you announce six reform projects all azimuts, none of them attack the abuses of the financial powers, of which you never speak. You prefer to situate social and economic relations in the world of bisouns, explaining that with a little goodwill, we manage to get along. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that there is still a vast majority who live or would like to live with their labour force, and a tiny minority who try every day to extend their profits and domination, trampling on the fabric of small businesses and subcontractors. You ignore the savagery induced by capitalism that attacks humans. To deny this reality is to encourage it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The law must of course be challenged by the movement of the world. But nowhere is it written that it must systematically endorse the economic practices of the moment. You want more freedom and security for both the employer and the employee, but what you will give first, you will take second. Do not write the law to make life easier for your HRD friends or shareholders. That the company is a common good is a good objective that I could share... But, as things stand, it is a petition of principle. I note in passing that it is often the employees who defend their company best, as my friends from Fralib in the Bouches-du-Rhône have shown. The labour code is not just any code: it has essentially been conquered. The legislator must make the law to allow injustices, inequalities and dominations to be prohibited because, as Rousseau wrote, "force does not produce any rights". Alas! Your bill is intended to expand the breach of the El Khomri Act when our President was Minister of the Economy. Your project goes first, whatever you say, to overthrow the hierarchy of standards and to introduce the principle of disadvantage since the law can thus be circumvented by company agreements. Each will have the right to establish its own rules – from rules to discount. And you keep telling us that you want to fight the complexity of the law to make it effective, as you will multiply social dumping within our country and within each branch. What force will remain in the law? Your project will merge and rejuvenate staff representative bodies, making the CHSCT disappear, yet so decisive on health and safety issues. Your project will create even better conditions for blackmail for employment, of which we have had many examples in the past period. What tools will remain for employees? Your project will sanctify a new concept, the precarious CDI, and expand the possibilities of unilateral modification of the contract of employment. Thus, you want to increase the flexibility of employers as you limit the power of judges. Your prescriptions are similar to those of Molière's doctors. National representation should be aware that trade union organisations representing employees have raised almost all concerns, both in form and substance. While the President of the Republic explained to the employees that he was not Santa Claus, he already distributes trances to the MEDEF, which would almost be embarrassed. Her discomfort, I assure you, minister, never lasts long; He continues to want to lower the so-called cost of work and does not even need to promise hypothetical job creation – which your measures will not cause – since everything is given to him effortlessly, as we have seen in recent days on the question of penitibility. I would remind you that the right has given in committee its white-sing to your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u242	No, we didn't give a white-seing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u243	It's an eloquent signal, and for us not a surprise. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] As for those who are here the majority, I ask them: "What are you going to do with your power? In whose name, in the name of what are you going to make the law? This text will be the birth certificate of your majority and your political strength. This act names you. He'll tell you who you are. This will be a serious change in social public order, a major change in philosophy. For a long time, you will have to explain that you are not Santa Claus to justify the public impotence and social regression imposed by a finance whose excesses the newspaper Le Monde denounced yesterday. This political choice leads us into the wall. It will further aggravate working conditions and make employees the adjustment variables. Instead of triggering new social and economic dynamics, it will fuel the spiral of the crisis. There is no majority in this country for your social demolition company, don't you mind. We will make proposals for a real labour code of the 21st century, highlighting the challenges of the time ahead: the fight against the financialization of the economy and the domination of finance, the acquisition of new powers for employees in management in order to meet the economic, social and ecological challenges, the securing of professional paths through employment and training, the supervision of the use of precariousness and that of the scale of wages, high-level social protection, etc. All the actions we take will be aimed at preventing, or at least limiting, not the scope of the consultation but the scope of your authorization. [[Mr. Dharréville rips his notes]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] That's what you want to do with the labour code! But many people want to write pages of the future. And you won't be able to ignore them long!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u244	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u245	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the promises are no longer enough: the French are determined to judge the action of our Parliament on the basis of one priority: that which we will give to the fight against unemployment. They are right to do so: it has been too long since successive governments and majorities gave up their weapons in the face of this scourge for our social cohesion. Yes, it is a scourge because the fear of losing one's job or not finding one blocks thinking about how to work in the world of tomorrow. It is our duty to put dialogue and consultation in its rightful place in all companies in the country. This necessity is even the condition of our presence here today. A word first about the method. The French have given us a mandate to renovate our social model, and this reform is the first step. That is what the President of the Republic, elected last May – which is not displeased by some – said, but also and above all an imperative dictated by the three and a half million people currently without activity. In normal times, the parliamentary procedure can take more than a year, and it is still necessary that the decrees are then taken, so that only then can organizational changes be made. This time is not compatible with that of social emergency. For the text that concerns us, understand that the expectation would therefore be a renunciation and that any language would be harmful. This law must re-establish the place of a concerted agreement between employers and employees, on the sole condition of providing all actors with the tools of this youth cure. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot sit down and wait for this to progress. But speed does not mean deafness of the Government: it has chosen the consultation with the unions to structure its proposals, which are now in the direction of joint work. In this regard, this text is a guarantee of humility, for us parliamentarians, who thus agree to hand over to the players the keys to the negotiations. We choose by this text to give our trust to employees and employers because they know, they know, they know the specifics of their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u246	It's the corporatist order!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u247	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] A monolithic right for all sectors of activity is no longer equal to the specific cases created by the new professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u248	It's not the 19th century!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u249	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Let us remember that 60% of the jobs that will be created by 2050 do not yet exist. The law must therefore catch up with reality. That is why we are entrusting the norm to the arbitrations of social consensus in companies, within the framework of the well-understood protection of employees. In our territories, we find that it is the most fragile of companies and their employees who tell us about the heavyness that the law sometimes imposes on the dynamics of employment, a law that is too strict and can stifle the possibilities of dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u250	What an old ideology!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u251	Our reform will, on the contrary, allow companies to go further in protection because it will adapt it to the risks of each trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u252	We don't have to know the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u253	As an employee tomorrow, I will be able to adjust my supplementary social protection to the specific risks associated with my employment. Madam Minister, you mentioned in committee an industrial carpentry company located in Cholet, in which an agreement was reached prioritising the organisation of working time, the quality of life at work and gender equality. The agreement that has been reached is no exception: on the contrary, it is proof that employees, like employers, are the first beneficiaries of the dialogue. At the end of the reform, we will be pleased to see such examples multiply throughout France. Our country is also distinguished, in companies, by a fragmented representation of employees in four different bodies: to simplify these bodies representing the staff would therefore also be to bring together the forces so that a stronger voice can be heard in the negotiations. This merger is already possible for companies with less than 300 employees: we therefore choose to improve the representation of employees in legislative bodies in all companies. All this constitutes an unprecedented strengthening of the means of social dialogue. The French social model is characterized by a carnal attachment to equality: equality before the law, equal rights, equal opportunities. Today, however, we feel that this equality is being undermined. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] And the first of the inequalities is that which separates those who have a job from those who do not. That is why we are making employment, and employment for all, the first priority: I am thinking in particular of young people in certain neighbourhoods where unemployment reaches 40% and who must laugh at our debates this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u254	That's for sure! But they laugh yellow!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u255	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] We are therefore determined to act forcefully and without delay because we owe it to the French. To all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u256	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u257	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, more equality and more freedom are, Madam Minister, in your own words, the principles that seem to have guided you in the preparation of this bill. I share them because they should have allowed us to reach, and for a long time now, some of the proposals that you are presenting to us. If I share them, I, like many of us, can only regret the method of work that leads you today to introduce an enabling bill to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue. Of course, Madam Minister, the economic recovery of our country is imperative: we all agree on this point. However, if our Labour Code is to be modernised and simplified, let us be careful not to sacrifice a legacy to which, in this House, as the rapporteur pointed out at the beginning of the sitting, we all hold. Of course, during the election campaign, the President of the Republic widely announced the measures he wanted to take, and some of the French endorsed them by their vote. Is that enough reason, however, to deprive us of the right to legislate that our election has also conferred on us? On the pretext of having to continue working with the social partners, and as a matter of principle, in the Committee on Social Affairs you have rejected all our amendments. In such circumstances, what was the usefulness of convening this commission so hastyly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u258	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u259	... even though we still do not know, before we begin our discussions, the outcome of this consultation? You did, Madam Minister, commit to this. But let's get to the bottom of this bill: Article 1 reshaping the link between a branch agreement and an enterprise agreement as well as between a collective agreement and an employment contract. It will change the definition of the majority agreement which – as we all know – generates certain blockages in companies. We will propose by amendment that the initiative to use direct consultation with employees be extended to the employer: the relationship between the two parties to the negotiations will thus be better balanced. Article 2 on social dialogue in the company provides for the merger into a single body of staff delegates, the works council, the CHSCT and possibly the trade union delegate. I fully support this rule, but I will propose an amendment so that the Government determines the conditions under which an agreement could maintain one or more separate bodies from the single body. Madam Minister, in the Committee on Social Affairs you pointed out that consultation with the social partners was under way in order to determine, in particular for the most dangerous occupations, the most feasible solution for the maintenance of such a right, notwithstanding the merger rule. Today, however, I do not see any proposal on your part to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u260	Exactly: there is no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u261	That is why, during this reading, I will come back to the amendment that I proposed to you last week in committee. It also seems to me that the establishment of a compulsory schedule of workers' compensation provided for in Article 3 is a step in the right direction because it is such as to reassure employers, even if there are in our country courts of law which perform their work perfectly and which are entirely reasonable on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u262	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u263	I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to these volunteer judges: I cannot help but cite the exemplary functioning of the court of the prud'hommes of Saint-Malo, in which only a very small number of cases go in part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u264	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u265	Article 5, which pursues a simplification objective, provides for a redefinition of the penitibility account: that of time lost since the law of 20 January 2014 guaranteeing the future and justice of the pension system! How much energy is spent on finding ways to apply provisions that are obviously inapplicable! What a useless relationship between the mission entrusted by your predecessor to Mr Michel de Virville and the report on the implementation of the same law of 2014 presented by our former colleagues Michel Issindou and Denis Jacquat! And yet, I remember our 2013 debates in which my colleagues and I had demonstrated very precisely how inapplicable, unfair and, above all, underfunded these provisions were. I am also thinking of the prevention cards needed to assess the conditions of penitibility, a system far too tedious to keep up-to-date, a real puzzle for companies: if we had been listened to at the time, we would have won four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u266	Who was the minister of the economy at the time?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u267	Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to welcome your pragmatic announcements this weekend regarding the simplification of the operation of the penitential account in the handling of heavy loads, painful postures, mechanical vibrations and chemical hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u268	The MEDEF, also the MEDEF, always the MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u269	In view of all these elements, I wonder how a certain number of former socialist MPs can today approve such an approach that is one hundred miles from all the principles they have defended so far. Consciousness evolves slowly and, of course, somewhat timidly. In any event, it is not our group that can be blamed for contradictions or inconsistencies: we are in full continuity and in full compliance with the values we have been defending from the beginning. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All this leads me to tell you, minister, that I have long been convinced that a little more listening and tolerance in our debates would undoubtedly lead to decisions that are much more reasoned and more adapted to the realities on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u270	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u271	[[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, distrust and distrust are at the heart of political life. The cases – or suspicions that precede them – that continue, like unfulfilled promises, have ended up disqualifying our institutions. But you act like nothing is happening: you perpetuate bad habits. Your majority is certainly very comfortable, but it must not be insolent or disrespectful. Minister, let me tell you calmly, but very firmly, that neither I nor my group's colleagues will be your puppets, your clowns or the extras of a bad film intended solely to amuse the gallery. We will impose the debate on you. We will bring you the contradiction. We'll make you proposals. Whether you want it or not, you will hear us, and the people will hear what we have to say to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u272	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u273	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You want to legislate by ordinance and deprive national representation of its powers? So go ahead: take orders against mal-housing, for reimbursement to 100% of medical care, for the energy transition or to increase social minima above the poverty line! This would save, for example, 400,000 reunitees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u274	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u275	I didn't come here to have fun, because it's a bad time. In Réunion, where I come from, mass unemployment is close to 25 per cent of the working population – 60 per cent of whom are young people – and 42 per cent of the population survives below the poverty line: this law will not be the solution. Worse, she'll make all the problems worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u276	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u277	Minister, the people need clarity, sun and hope. But your text leads them "dan' fénoir" as we say at home. The primacy of enterprise agreements over branch agreements will penalise workers, particularly in Réunion, where the economic fabric is made up of 90 per cent of very small enterprises in which union representation is non-existent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u278	That's what they want!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u279	These same company agreements will also make it possible to revise wages downwards:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u280	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u281	...beautiful social carnage in perspective! Ladies and gentlemen, my island is affected by the high cost of life due to our insularity and economic monopolies. This fact is even recognized by the State, since it grants a cost-of-living allowance to its civil servants. But perhaps you have planned, Madam Minister, to extend this bonus by order to all Réunionnais and Réunionnais?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u282	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u283	Great idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u284	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Another point is the extension of construction contracts: it is nothing more than the prelude at the end of contracts of indefinite duration. In short, modern slavery is on its way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u285	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u286	Listen to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u287	You also prefer to open up the tap of redundancies, while the companies of Réunion, like their counterparts in Hexagone, need above all to fill in their order books. And I'm passing, Madam Minister. As many daggers as you plant in the backs of the workers, who, paradoxically, Madam Minister, are getting poorer while working! Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to return to the reality of the people. [["We! » on some benches of the REM group]] Who in this House can claim to have lived for years in the Smic? Who in this assembly is having trouble paying rent or water bills? Who has tears in his eyes when he gets up in the morning because he wonders what he's going to put in the pot to feed his children? Who here counts in his family an elderly person who is forced to hide in order to die because poverty has deprived him of all dignity? Who, ladies and gentlemen? Raise your finger! No one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u288	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u289	Many of us accept the inacceptable, that is, this bill that will cause even more suffering and misfortune.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u290	But you have the chance to express yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u291	Only Mr. Ratenon has the floor. Dear colleague, pursue and conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u292	Me, ma'am, I know where I came from. Smicard of long time, poor worker having benefited from the RSA activity, I know what I'm talking about since I see the suffering around me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u293	You're not the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u294	So come and say it in the gallery too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u295	So I say to my colleagues in the Republic on the march: don't forget your humanity, show empathy towards the weakest of us and keep your freedom to think and act: don't vote as one man this text of social regression. In conclusion, I will say to you, Madam Minister, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Respekt anou. (Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u296	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u297	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is in favour of a profound renovation of our social model. It corresponds to the commitment made by the President of the Republic during the presidential campaign and to the project carried out by the elected deputies of the majority. It was built with a method based on dialogue and co-construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u298	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u299	During the presidential campaign, a large march was held and thousands of workshops were held to listen and exchange with citizens as well as entrepreneurs. Then the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour met on several occasions with each trade union organization and employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u300	But not all together!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u301	These exchanges with the social partners enabled opinions and proposals to be heard with a view to refining the bill. They will continue until July 21 and will provide valuable input, as you have indicated, Madam Minister, to our parliamentary discussion. The observation made by the French is without appeal: our model weakens the confidence of companies and does not encourage installation, innovation and recruitment. A number of contexts need to be highlighted: the number of jobseekers is too large; too heavy burdens disaggregate competition for the benefit of international companies (Exclamations on FI banks); digital evolution is misunderstood; the complexity of our model scares entrepreneurs; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u302	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Let them move in somewhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u303	... employees' expectations of skills and careers development are growing. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It is therefore a matter of giving security and freedom to employees, as well as to companies. [["Ah? » on the benches of the FI group]] The method of orders was clearly announced and assumed by the Government. It will enable reforms to be adopted according to a precise and limited timetable, while at the same time being open to constructive amendments, thus to the contributions of parliamentarians. It is a question of avoiding the length of the debates, not the debate! [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Coming myself from the business world, like many of us...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u304	It must not be a TPE!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u305	Why not? You don't have a monopoly on the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u306	In addition, we do not all come from the company: there are also nurses, farmers...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Grandjean has the floor. Go on, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u308	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. - Exclaims on certain benches of the FI group]] What I mean, ladies and gentlemen, is that the reality of companies is very variable. It should be pointed out that most enterprises are small businesses and SMEs, and that employees in small and medium-sized enterprises are the most numerous. Collective agreements are often ill-suited for these structures, which are sometimes subject to the framework dictated by large groups. Thus the proposals made to promote telework, resignation which gives rise to unemployment benefit, enhanced vocational training or reorganisation of apprenticeship are active security which entrepreneurs and employees will be able to take advantage of. It is also in this spirit that measures such as the establishment of a scale of damages awarded by the workers in the event of unfair dismissal, the harmonization of the time limits for bringing proceedings concerning the termination of the employment contract or the precise legal definition of dismissal on economic grounds have been considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u309	It's the harassment bonus... You'll see how it's going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u310	Building initiative capacity will also be an asset for success. I will take the example of a company located near Nancy. It is an SME with fewer than fifty employees – and wants to remain so for the reasons we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u311	We'll see in two years if they're over 50!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u312	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It proposed that employees organize their working time by allocating their 35 hours, at their option, over four or five days; Well, many of them chose to work over four days. It is indeed a freedom that the company has offered, not the branch or the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u313	So we can already do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u314	Direct consultation between the employer and the employees is likely to foster a dialogue to meet the expectations and needs of everyone, while preserving the necessary regulatory harmonisation established by the sectoral agreements. In the long term, the aim is to establish in France a culture of negotiation and consultation in companies. This is a major structural development. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Rires and exclamations on FI banks]] We are in favour of renovating the social base, on the basis of a more effective social dialogue and renewed confidence in companies and their employees. We will thus promote the win-win relationship.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u315	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor for five minutes. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to the speakers' speeches without trying to cover them with interruptions: everyone speaks here freely, successively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u316	[[Rires on several benches]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I sat in this House for five years. I saw the powerful socialists applauding – not like you, after training, but applause! I saw them arrogant, I saw them confident of themselves, and then I saw them leave. Indeed, there comes a day when, in the street, your elector asks you how you behaved; and on that day, you will pay dearly for your behavior, for, to obey a mechanism that has been put in place, you are touching, the air of nothing, to a sacred thing: the right of labour, created by the law of 28 December 1910, which reproduced all the previous texts, each marking a moment in the history of the sufferings of a people. What is essential is the relationship between the worker – for who says "labour code" says "worker", on the understanding that one can work in the company as in physiotherapy, or elsewhere – and the one who runs it, and I can understand that one wants to reform it. But between the fort and the weak, it is indeed freedom that oppresses and the law that delivers – you could still have made it clear, ladies and gentlemen of France, that this sentence was from the Reverend Father Lacordaire!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u317	Yes! A liberal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u318	It is a great pleasure for me to quote it again, and I thank you for having used this beautiful quotation, which honours social Christianity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u319	[[Smile]] At your service!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u320	You will therefore decide by order that the labour law must be reformed. The question is simple: what do we serve? Am I currently playing a role-playing game?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u321	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u322	[[Applause on some benches.– Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] Well, that's it, you say you're pitters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u323	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u324	Poor fools, for if I play a role-playing role, you are the poor spectators of a democracy that has died, and you give the most obvious illustration of it by deciding, by empowering the Government to proceed by ordinance, to abandon the powers that brave people, who trust you, who shook your hand, who voted for you, gave you. Oh, it's legal, of course, it's in the constitutional order! But the voters who said, "I send him to the assembly, he, or I send him the assembly, so that he or she will represent me and vote for me," what will they think tomorrow, when you return to your constituency and they will ask you, "Then you have represented me? "No, I gave the full powers to Mr. Macron and his government," as to a charismatic legislator who could do everything?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u325	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u326	[[Long protests on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] No, I don't caricature, because there are only grotesque people who are caricatured – what you are not. I don't caricature, I say the reality of what's going on and what you're going to live on the ground – and it amuses me, what you're going to live on the ground, when both of you ask questions! You think you are strong, very strong, you are now the majority, but in some time you may not be, and at that time you will regret not having affirmed the power of the mandate entrusted to you when it was still time to do so – and for what reason? By robotization? I don't believe it. By discipline? I don't believe it. No, just because you've been told to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u327	It's insulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u328	[[Exclaims and hues on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] No, I'm not insulting anyone; If I were to insult you, you'd be crushed! I'm just saying that when you get the chance to get a mandate from the people, you don't brace it. You have to defend the world of work, SMEs, TPEs; You must not give it up in the name of any political movement. Here, we fight for the world of work,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u329	We're coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u330	[[Movements on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ...we fight for the TPEs and for the SMEs, we don't give up on its power! [[Applause on some benches]] No, I'm not playing the violin, it's much more serious, and you, other Members of Parliament, should learn to respect the one who speaks, no matter what he says!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u331	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u332	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by replying to Mr Collard. As far as I am concerned, Mr Collard, this is the first time I have sat in this House, but before I entered it, I was watching you on television during the previous Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u333	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u334	[[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You were as caricatural and insulting as you are today! You will always find us on your way throughout this legislature. We will not let you insult us, because through us you insult the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u335	Are you the people?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u336	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u337	We are all the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u338	[[Same movements]] We are the national representative, and we will not let you do it! But I don't want to give you more importance than that. On the other hand, I would like to characterize politically the approach we are taking to the consideration of this bill. This is the building of mutual trust between national representation and the Government. This trust is not decreed, proof of this is; It is built, step by step – I insist on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The desire to reform the labour code in order to strengthen social dialogue, we have shown, explaining what means we wish to use: by legislating by ordinances. We demonstrated this during the presidential campaign, which led to the election of Emmanuel Macron as President of the Republic; we have demonstrated this during the legislative campaign, which led to the installation of a parliamentary majority to carry out this political project; you have shown it, Madam Minister, here in the Assembly; Finally, it was demonstrated through the Prime Minister's general policy speech, Édouard Philippe, to which we trusted less than a week ago. Ladies and gentlemen, at each of these stages, we have presented a method of acting by means of ordinances, in consultation with the social partners – consultation which is taking place right now – and in compliance with parliamentary debates. We are currently participating in such a debate, after having had one in the Committee on Social Affairs last week, and before examining the text and the more than 300 amendments that have been tabled – which I welcome. This approach and this method, I repeat, contribute to the establishment of mutual trust, which will enable us to fulfil our commitments to social dialogue, whose keys to success are collective reflection, consultation, information and negotiation. Through this text, we want to establish more constructive relations between the social partners and the managers of companies, in order to improve the working conditions of all, as well as the economic efficiency of the structures which employ them: we are convinced that one is the vector of the other. Decentralisation of dialogue and decision-making will make it possible to adapt to real employment and activity situations. The closer one is to individuals, i.e. to economic efficiency and social reality, the more relevant the negotiated or co-developed solutions are. This will also lead to the emergence of social innovations in work organisation. As you have understood, one of the major challenges of the reform is to get out of a status quo that is less and less in line with the challenges faced by employees in their company and businesses in their sector of activity. To that end, we need to strengthen interaction and social dialogue in order to respond to challenges that are firmly rooted in reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the elected member of the first district of Les Deux-Sèvres, a territory that has many socially innovative companies – I am thinking in particular of health and insurance mutuals, in particular the MAIF, the Mutual Insurance of Teachers of France. I know that it is through a strengthened and direct dialogue with employee representatives and with employees themselves that they have been able to innovate and set up new organisations within their structures. Like the whole national economic fabric, my constituency has a majority of TPEs and SMEs, and many of them want to renew the social dialogue in order to be able to introduce new work organisations. Because I believe that a decision co-developed with confidence, with solutions adapted and accepted by as many as possible, is effective, we need to strengthen this dialogue. To improve social dialogue, solutions exist; Each of us has examples of innovative SMEs in our constituency. We must accompany them and encourage them to make innovations in work organisation. I will take the example of the company in which I worked and left to become a parliamentarian: Sogaris. Its managers were never afraid to engage in a direct dialogue with employees, to share with them the issues that arose and the challenges of day-to-day management, because they were aware that this was the sine qua non for the success of the company. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The changes that your reform will allow, Minister, will take time to make itself felt. But the commitment we have made to the French is to act quickly; That is why we wish to authorize the Government to legislate through ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u339	Mrs Valérie Petit, the last speaker on the list, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u340	[[Smile]] Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, if you have any energy left, to devote the bulk of my remarks to Article 2 of the draft law on the establishment of a new organisation of social dialogue. Social dialogue, as you know, covers, according to the ILO – the International Labour Organisation – all the processes, whether institutionalised or not, of negotiation, consultation and information relating to the economic and social policy of the enterprise. In this regard, I think it is useful to refer to three points as a pre-requisite. Firstly, the aim of social dialogue is not only to encourage the formulation of consensus between the actors in the world of work, but also to support their democratic participation. On the other hand, the quality and intensity of social dialogue are factors of economic performance, quality of social relations and good corporate governance. Finally, France is unfortunately lagging behind in terms of the quality of social dialogue, as shown, for example, by the survey by the ISSP – Institute for Science, Society and Policy – on the quality of labour relations in Europe, or the work of economists such as Olivier Blanchard and Thomas Philippon. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is taking note, with this bill, of the urgency of renovating our social model and finally of giving the actors of the enterprise and the world of work the means of social dialogue in line with their economic ambitions and social demands. This is a historic opportunity for modernization that we must seize; and if I may, I will take an example of a major advance in the text in terms of employee representation and expression. As such, the voice of employees and their representatives is not sufficiently strong within the company in terms of their contribution to its success. In France, more than half of enterprises do not have representative bodies for employees, and this figure reaches 78% in enterprises with less than 20 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u341	Good thing there are branches!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u342	The cost, complexity and lack of attractiveness of representation thus leave more than a quarter of French employees without representatives: without representatives to be fully informed about the company's policy; without representatives to be involved in strategic decisions; without representatives to be associated with corporate governance. This situation is the result of a breakdown in social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u343	That's the consequence of the harassment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u344	Indeed, my dear colleague, harassment is also one of my favourite topics. [[Applause on many benches in the REM group and on some benches in the MODEM group]] In this sense, I said, section 2 of the bill is a real step forward in terms of employee representation, firstly because, by merging the staff delegates, the works council and the CHSCT into one instance, it provides employees' representatives with access to comprehensive information on the economic and social situation of the company and gives them the means to speak with one voice in order to make themselves heard better; Second, by granting this merged body the opportunity to negotiate agreements and company agreements, it gives employee representatives their full place and weight in the social dialogue; thirdly because, by supporting the formation of these same representatives and by strengthening the fight against trade union discrimination, it gives the actors the means to exercise genuine leadership and to weigh in the negotiations; Fourthly, by better involving employee representatives in the employer's decisions in key areas, this bill makes them full partners in the company's decisions; and in an uncertain and complex world, as we all know, the diversity of views and competences, when they converge towards the same goal, makes it possible to make the most effective and fair decisions. Finally, by planning to facilitate the operation of the merged proceedings in smaller companies, the bill ensures that they will no longer be forgotten by social dialogue. The text before us therefore supports not only employee representation and social dialogue, but also employee expression and corporate democracy. It does so by strengthening and facilitating the right of expression of employees, in particular through the use of digital tools, but also – another notable step forward – by improving the conditions for the representation and participation of employees in governance bodies such as boards of directors and supervisory boards, and by opening up to all employee representatives the possibility – so far reserved, under the 2015 law, for companies with more than 1000 employees – to be at the heart of power, to take their place and to be associated with decisions that commit their company's destiny. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, I share most of the content and spirit of this text, which means more social dialogue and more democracy in the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u345	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u346	[["Five minutes! » on several benches of the LR group]] Of course, voices will always come to explain to you, here or there, that it is a setback for employees' rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u347	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u348	[[New protests on the benches of the LR group]] This is completely wrong, as I have shown.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u349	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thank you, Mrs. Little. The general discussion is closed. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1005.u350	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Following the discussion, after the accelerated procedure was initiated, of the enabling bill to take the measures for the strengthening of social dialogue by order. The meeting is adjourned.
