ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the first part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273, 264 corrected, 266 corrected).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u2	Under the conditions laid down by the Conference of Presidents, we come to Article 27 on the assessment of the levy made on the revenue of the State in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union (No 273, 275 volume XI). The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u3	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the special rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 September I had the honour of taking part in this House, together with Jean-Yves Le Drian, in the debate on the future of Europe. I will therefore not go back in detail today to the ambitions of the President of the Republic to re-found the European Union, so that it is more effective, more protective and closer to the aspirations of our fellow citizens. It is on a Europe-wide scale that we can truly guarantee our sovereignty. Our debate is shorter-term and more prosaic, since I come to ask the national representative to authorise the revenue levy for the European Union for 2018. But it is obviously fundamental, because this levy is the very condition for the continued functioning of the Union and, consequently, for its re-foundation. It is also an important democratic opportunity to discuss with you the European added value of the Union's common policies. In addition to the budgetary data on which our discussions will focus, I hope that this debate will allow us to examine together the benefits that France derives from its contribution to the financing of the European budget, which go far beyond the simple French rate of return under the various Community policies. Ladies and gentlemen, the amount of the revenue levy for the European Union amounts to EUR 20.2 billion in the draft finance law for 2018, an increase of about 8% compared to the previous year. This €1.5 billion increase is due to the increase in the volume of appropriations proposed by the European Commission in its draft budget for 2018 compared to the budget adopted last year. This is a classic phenomenon, which the specialists present in the Chamber are well aware of: with the end of a multi-annual financial framework approaching, the projects launched are progressing, and the volume of payment appropriations needed as well. This upward trend in the revenue levy is expected to continue in 2019 and 2020 due to the planned catch-up in the implementation of cohesion policy. In order to understand this amount, it is first and foremost legitimate to question how we stand in relation to the other Member States. France placed itself in 2016, according to the latest figures available for the calculation of our net balance, in the second place of the net contributors in volume, after Germany. At the same time, our country was the third largest beneficiary of EU expenditure, after Spain and Italy. But these statistical indicators are by nature reducing, since they do not allow us to grasp the full benefits of our membership of the European Union, in particular our membership of the single market and the richest economic zone in the world. While it is very difficult to quantify these benefits – and I am aware that this is a serious defect before budgetary experts – I stress that, on the contrary, the announced exit of the United Kingdom from the Union, which the Government regrets – I would like to repeat here before you – shows the magnitude of the costs associated with Brexit: slowing down investment in the British economy, uncertainty among economic actors and trading partners, the departure of some banks and financial actors, etc. More generally, the budget of the European Union is a valuable instrument, whose actions benefit all our territories in a very concrete way. I am of course thinking of the common agricultural policy, which both contributes to guaranteeing an income for farmers, contributes to the planning of our territory and accompanies farmers' efforts towards the ecological transition. I will also refer to the European Fund for Strategic Investments, set up under the Juncker Plan, which supports projects throughout the country, and of which France is a strong beneficiary. In addition, during my discussions, I fully appreciate the importance for their beneficiaries of certain policies under which our rates of return are known to be lower: the Structural Funds first of all, which support concrete local projects and to which I know how much the regions, even Île-de-France, are attached; and how can we not also underline the crucial role played by the European Fund for Aid to the Poorest, which makes it possible to finance one out of four meals proposed by the Restos du coeur – as their president, Patrice Blanc recently reminded me – and thus provides essential food aid to the most fragile? In each of these situations, the support of the European budget plays an essential role, without our citizens always being fully aware of it. Hence the importance of talking about Europe and making it speak about Europe; That will be one of the challenges of the democratic conventions that we will launch next year, and for which I will ask for your support. France also benefits, through the European budget, from policies at the level of the 28 Member States and 500 million Europeans, whether it involves pooling expenditure, coordinating the action of the Member States or ensuring solidarity with the Member States most in need. These positive effects can be considerable, be it to promote European excellence in research and innovation or to develop cross-border infrastructure and major European projects. In this connection, I note that our country is taking advantage of the appropriations of the Connecting Europe Facility. In some cases, EU action is simply the only way to finance projects as ambitious as the European satellite positioning system Galileo, for example. On the other hand, we see the costs of the absence of Europe, in particular the lack of coordination of corporate tax rates. In the end, to discuss our contribution to the European budget is to debate the ambition we are defending for the future of the European Union and the areas on which we want it to act. Let me turn to the draft European budget for 2018. Last May, the Commission presented its draft, the fifth of the current multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020. It amounts to EUR 160.6 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 145.4 billion in payment appropriations. If the total amount of the European Union's budget is significant and our contribution to its revenue represents a major effort for public finances, I would like to point out here that its size, in relation to the Union's gross national income, is simply about 1% of the wealth produced in all the Member States. The first objective of this draft budget is to stimulate growth, investment, employment and youth policies. These budgetary priorities are linked in particular to the gradual increase in programmes such as Erasmus+ and the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which I mentioned earlier. The Juncker plan, which is therefore growing in power, continues to benefit project promoters in France, thanks to a strong mobilisation to identify and support eligible projects. Our country is thus the first beneficiary of projects under the infrastructure and innovation component of this plan. Some 100 financing decisions have been taken for France, providing 35 billion euros in investments in promising sectors such as the energy transition, with the support of the Capenergie 3 Fund, dedicated to the development of renewable energies, the financing of very high speed in rural areas in Hauts-de-France and Alsace, and the development of start-ups from academic circles thanks to the Quadrivium academic fund. At European level, the results achieved by the Juncker Plan are also remarkable, since three quarters of the target of EUR 315 billion for the whole plan has already been achieved. The target will be raised to 500 billion as part of the ongoing expansion of the plan. Economic, social and territorial cohesion policy continues to support regional growth and employment projects, supported by the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, and the European Social Fund, the ESF, for a total of around EUR 15 billion over the period 2014-2020. The Regional Councils, which have been entrusted with the management of these European Structural Funds, have an important lever for the economic development of their territory. This budget also makes it possible to finance the common agricultural policy, which supports our farmers through direct aid and market expenditure, which is slightly higher than last year's budget. The 2018 budget also aims to make the Union more able to respond to emergencies and crises. Since the beginning of 2015, the Union's response to the crisis of migrants and asylum seekers has thus declined not only externally, through the strengthening of humanitarian aid and development efforts with third countries, but also internally, through the reception of people in need of international protection or better control of external borders. The draft budget for 2018 therefore provides for a strengthening of the resources for humanitarian aid and for the further development of the FRONTEX external border management agency, which has since become the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. In addition to the issue of the EU budget for 2018 alone, which we are dealing with today, I invite you to ask us together about the evolution of the Union's resources for action and their relevance to the new priorities and challenges facing the Union. The mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework – MFF – 2014-2020, adopted by the Council on 20 June following the agreement of the European Parliament, is a positive step forward. The challenge of this mid-term review was to improve the budgetary framework in line with the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework set by the Heads of State and Government in 2013, as unanimity to amend them was not achieved. This review first introduced more flexibility in the management of the European budget, marked by a certain degree of rigidity, to enable the Union to be more responsive. This has led to an increase in the permissible limits of certain special instruments provided for under the MFF, such as the emergency aid reserve and the flexibility instrument, which can also be provided with unused amounts from the European Union Solidarity Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. Furthermore, the qualitative aspect of the mid-term review, which is still under discussion between the European Parliament and the Council, should make it possible to introduce certain simplifications of the procedures for beneficiaries of European funds as from 1 January 2018, to reduce multiple controls and to facilitate the administrative management of these funds. The overall agreement reached in June also includes additional appropriations until the end of the financial perspective 2014-2020. This should make it possible to facilitate the forthcoming annual budgetary negotiations between the two arms of the Community budgetary authority until the end of this framework, but also to ensure greater predictability of Member States' national contributions. This package of new measures of EUR 3.5 billion between 2017 and 2020, in addition to the EUR 2.5 billion already provided for in the financial programming for security and border management, helps to meet the challenges posed by migration and the increased need for security within and outside the Union, while maintaining sustained attention to growth and investment. The mid-term review foresees €1.4 billion to support actions outside the Union, in particular for the creation of the European Sustainable Development Fund. This new tool aims to support investments in Africa and the EU's neighbourhood countries to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the UN 2030 Agenda. The aim of the EDF is to combat the causes of migration and to contribute to the sustainable reintegration of migrants returning to their countries of origin, as well as to the strengthening of transit and reception communities. In addition to increases in support of growth and employment-enhancing European programmes, such as the European Horizon 2020 research programme, the transport component of the Connecting Europe Facility, the Erasmus+ programme and the Business Competitiveness Programme, the agreement reached will also fund the extension of the European Fund for Strategic Investments until 2020, as well as the extension of the Youth Employment Initiative. Thanks in particular to the action of France, the amount proposed by the Commission to reabunde this last initiative has been increased to EUR 1.2 billion by 2020. Overall, the guidelines set out in this agreement are therefore well in line with the priorities that we wish to defend at European level, also by providing more flexibility and soon simplifying the rules for the implementation of the Union's policies. Finally, let us now move quickly towards the next deadlines, even if we are still only at the beginning of the process for the definition of the next multi-annual financial framework post-2020, since the European Commission is not expected to present its proposals for several months yet. Among all the challenges facing Europe, new priorities have emerged, which must therefore be taken fully into account, whether it be defence, including the future programme for the development of industry in the field of defence, security – in all its dimensions – or the migration challenge. Efforts in the areas of youth and investment must be continued. Other policies, more traditional, of course remain fully relevant. We are therefore faced with a difficult equation, which Brexit, which leads to the departure of a large net contributor, makes even more complicated. This constraint, however, can also be an opportunity, if we know how to seize it. We must first have a real reflection on our political priorities, and then look for the best way to finance them, by coming out of the logic of renewing little or no existing: with Brexit, everyone sees that this method does not lead anywhere. Of course, this reflection we want on the political priorities of the Union is closely linked to our vision of the necessary re-foundation of Europe, but this debate may be too far away from today's subject; So I don't care about it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM group]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of the policies of the European Union to be financed in 2018, thanks in particular to the French contribution to its budget, is wide, and the benefits of these actions for France are multiple. The National Assembly is invited to decide on the means to be provided by the Union to act. On behalf of the Government, I request that you authorize the revenue levy for the European Union for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u4	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u5	Madam President, the Minister responsible for European Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, how proud to be before you to discuss these European subjects in this debate! What a pride, ladies and gentlemen, to observe this European construction – imperfect, certainly – which gives its European children the platform that this exercise allows me to have. What an honour for me, who is great-grandson of Polish and Italian immigrants, arrived almost a century ago with very little, not to say nothing, hunger in the belly, empty frac, but with one will and one desire: the will to get out of it, the desire to work to achieve it. This pride must not take away anything from the necessary step backwards which is mine, and which must be ours, in the light of the subject which brings us together today. I would like to reiterate the importance of the many debates on Europe that are going back to our current budgetary discussions. Speaking of Article 27, which proposes an estimate of the revenue levy in favour of the European Union, it is necessary to have a hermeneutic reading of all these figures. Indeed, in the light of the latest news, we must really question the importance of the action that each of us, elected by the French people, can take in reshaping a democratic Europe. The uniqueness, which is the main axiom on which Europe has built itself, becomes increasingly porous, attacked on the one hand by the rise of extremes in the various Member States and, on the other, by the questioning of democracy. "We had only two options. Either gather around a positive European programme, or fall back on each other by ignoring others. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u6	There's a third way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u7	Like Jean-Claude Juncker, I plead for unity. We, too, must ensure that the European project moves forward, deepens and enriches. That is why I am telling you quite frankly, and with the new look that is mine: if we continue to have a budgetary debate on the current bases, we will help to undermine the European idea. This debate on the revenue levy in favour of the European Union is obscured by two elements: firstly, the illegible nature of European finances; Secondly, our budgetary procedure has moved away from the European timetable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u9	As Special Rapporteur, I would not like this debate to be a two-digit debate: that of the increase in the revenue levy compared to 2017 and that of France's net contribution. However, this is implicit in the discussion of clause 27 of the Finance Bill. Of course, these two figures are important. The revenue levy for the European Union is estimated, as the Minister said, at €20.2 billion in 2018, up by €2.3 billion. France's net contribution, i.e. the difference between what France pays to the European Union budget and what it receives, would amount to about 6 billion. It would be a mistake, a gross mistake, to structure our debate around these two figures. I hear, here and there, acerbic, incisive criticisms coming from eurosceptics insurgerating from the increase in the revenue levy. However, ladies and gentlemen, this increase is nothing unusual. Focusing our energies only on the difference between what France has contributed to the European budget and what it has received is a fantasy without a name. This would be a purely accounting vision, and in part a false one, because it is impossible to allocate certain expenditure between Member States: this is borne out by those carried out under the European Union's external policy. There are at least three different methods for calculating this net contribution, but each of them omits one fundamental thing: all the positive aspects of European integration in terms of trade development and peacekeeping. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The €6 billion I mentioned represent less than 0.5% of our public spending and less than 10% of our deficit. So let us not listen to the demagogues who claim to restore France's public accounts by taking it out of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u10	We don't feel much enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u11	How can we imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that some here, especially the most Eurosceptic, may consider that we need to recover the difference between what France gives and what the French receive, as they strive, at national level, to constantly repeat to us that the rich must pay for the poor?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u12	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] I would really like them to explain to me how to propose the opposite at European level. The social justice they invoke seems to me to vary in geometry. I am proud to sit under the national flag and the European flag, and I am pleased to know that the flag will soon be installed forever.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u14	You could ask the French what they think!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u15	However, the European budget is based on a multi-annual framework covering the period 2014-2020. The European Union's structural and investment programmes will reach their cruising speed in 2018. The annuality of the revenue levy gives the impression of a fall at the beginning of the period of the multiannual financial framework and an increase at the end of the period. In fact, the amount of the revenue levy in 2018 will be close to the average of the last ten years, which is in the order of EUR 19.4 billion. What needs to be discussed is not the one-year revenue levy, but the average amount of the revenue levy over the entire multiannual financial framework. This is all the more true in view of the fact that the revenue levy is an assessment and is subject to several revisions during the year, according to the amending budgets of the European Union. To remedy this, one might imagine that France's contribution to the European Union budget would be financed by a trust account, which would be financed annually by a fixed payment corresponding to the average annual amount of the levy from the whole multiannual financial framework. Such an innovation could take place in the context of the more comprehensive reform of the budgetary procedure, which is reflected in a working group of the Committee on Finance. It would avoid this false debate on the alleged increase in the revenue levy. I would therefore like to refer to the timing of the discussion, which is not efficient: we are discussing the revenue levy at a time when the procedure for adopting the European Union budget has not been completed. The annex to the draft finance law on financial relations with the European Union is often published a few days or hours before this debate. I therefore suggest that consideration be given to a better articulation of the European and national timetable as part of the reform of the budgetary procedure. We will also have to put the European project back at the heart of the debate. The budget must be seen as a consequence of this project, not the other way round. For this to happen, the budget must be clear and understandable to all citizens. Like my fellow Members, were they national or European, I deplore the fact that European public finances have become illegible, with national selfishness that has not been overcome by a common ambition. On the revenue side, Member States' contributions are calculated on a basis that varies from one State to another, and then are corrected by various "rebates" – the best known being the UK rebate – that the other Member States finance according to different calculation rules for each of them. On the expenditure side, there is a range of non-budgetary instruments which are subject to complementary financing by the Member States or the European Investment Bank. It's urgent to put everything down. There can be no real European democracy, and therefore European sovereignty, as long as this situation continues. It is also urgent to review the size of the European budget, which is not commensurate with our ambitions for Europe: 160 billion euros in commitment appropriations – this is the amount of the draft budget presented by the European Commission. This may seem a lot, but it is in fact very little, since this budget, at European level, represents only about 1% of GDP, in other words not much. Indeed, reshaping Europe encourages us to rethink the budget allocated to it, and we will not make Europe with budgets that look like tipping. I am convinced that our historic responsibility is to move towards European sovereignty, which is complementary to national sovereignty, and which protects. Yes, I believe in a Europe that protects, empowers and defends. I believe in a democratic, sovereign and united Europe. That is why I am campaigning for more legible European finances, but also for a restructured European budget. We have a historic opportunity to do so. The President of the Republic delivered a founding speech at the Sorbonne on 26 September, opening the prospect of a new treaty. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As Special Rapporteur, I will closely monitor and report on the financial and budgetary aspects of the forthcoming negotiations. It goes without saying that I will defend with strength, width, enthusiasm, and with what conviction, the idea that there can be no real European ambition without a resized budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u16	Mr Maurice Leroy, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr General Budget Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u18	Ah! Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u19	[[Smile]] I was going to say hi! Wait! The members of the committee and I would like to thank you, Madam Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – I know this house very well – for the real debate we have had on this issue, which is usually dealt with in half an hour while it is about EUR 20.2 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u21	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u22	I therefore thank you for allowing this important and in-depth debate. The examination of the revenue levy by our House at the outset underlines the unsatisfactory nature of the financing of the European Union. Indeed – and this is not a thin one – the European budget has, alas, only the name of a European. Traditional own resources are totally marginal: 90% of this budget actually comes from the Member States through the so-called VAT and gross national income contributions. If it is the European Parliament that decides on expenditure, it is the national parliaments that decide on revenue. As regards expenditure from the European budget, 80% go back to the Member States in the form of agricultural subsidies or cohesion aid and, of the remaining 20%, 6% go to the European administration. This leaves only 14% of the budget for truly supranational actions such as Erasmus, European research or European Union action worldwide. This inadequate framework limits in particular the Union's ability to respond to the migration crisis. In this context, it seems to me that the preparation of the multi-annual financial framework post-2020, which will have to take account of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, must be an opportunity for an ambitious overhaul of the Union's expenditure and own resources – I am pleased that the previous speaker also stressed this. I would like to point out, for example, that budgetary time is not aligned with democratic time, since the multiannual financial framework is set for seven years while the European elections are held every five years. With modest resources – 1% of GDP in all the countries of the Union – the multiannual financial framework seeks to reinforce the priorities of research, employment and growth, the common agricultural policy and foreign policy. It also integrates solidarity with the new Member States through cohesion policy and tries to adapt to the emergencies facing the Union, in particular the changing migration situation. Stimulating growth, employment and investment: in 2018, the Commission proposes in particular to allocate an additional €2 billion to the European Fund for Strategic Investments Guarantee Fund, €55.4 billion to the Structural Investment Fund for regions and Member States and about €59.6 billion to farmers and rural development. After a slow start in the first few years, which raises many questions, the European Union's structural and investment programmes for the period 2014-2020 are expected to reach their cruising speed in 2018, which explains – as you pointed out, Madam Minister – the significant increase in payment appropriations compared to the 2017 budget. The new European Sustainable Development Fund should also mobilise additional funds. The 2018 budget is therefore very much in line with the previous ones, without the impact of Brexit this year. I repeat this from the top of this rostrum with great solemnity: the context of Brexit is a unique opportunity, Madam Minister, to fundamentally reform the European Union's budget. The French contribution is estimated at €20.2 billion, compared to €19 billion in 2017: this significant increase is due to the very late rise in cohesion policy. I would urge, as we did in committee, our Eurosceptic colleagues to step out of the vision, in my view, too partial, of seeing the European levy as a cost. I invite them to better understand and measure the added value of the European Union for France. I voluntarily stress, Madam Minister, the historic opportunity that we have to ambitiously revise the method of financing the European Union's budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u24	... since, with Brexit, the rebate granted to the British will lapse. It is therefore imperative to take advantage of the historic opportunity thus offered to us to remove once and for all all the "discounts" in order to make European resources fair and readable. That's not all. Madam Minister, I call on the Government to launch an ambitious reflection on the creation of new real own resources, revenue that would automatically go into the Union's budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u25	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u26	Several avenues can be considered, some in the field of the single market, others in the field of environmental or digital policies. I hope that this reflection will finally come to fruition. It's the only way to finally get out of the trap of just return. As I indicated in my report, the multiannual financial framework sets annual ceilings for each EU expenditure heading for seven years. I would like to point out, in order to worry about it and even to denounce it, that, in the most complete political myopia, the appropriations for migration have been reduced compared to those entered in the previous multiannual financial framework. At the same time, due to a lack of resources to meet new needs, the European Commission is multiplying the budget appendices. Outside the European Union budget, additional funding is thus provided by the European Investment Bank or other bodies based on intergovernmental agreements, such as the European Development Fund. It is therefore appropriate that, in the next multiannual financial framework, you raise a number of fundamental questions. A better balance between stability and flexibility of funding will have to be sought. This raises the question of the duration of the financial framework, which could be aligned with the mandates of Parliament and the Commission. It could also be useful to strengthen flexibility mechanisms and seek greater synergies between the different expenditure lines. The desire of the President of the Republic to put the question of CAP reform without taboo offers the possibility of a thorough review of all these policies. Compliance with the requirements of unity of the budget and democratic control must also lead to the limitation of satellite budgets and debuggering. There is also an urgent need to simplify the rules and reduce red tape in many areas of expenditure. The reflection on the future of the Union's budget must be accompanied by a clarification of its objectives. The issue of European added value must be at the heart of this exercise. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the Union should act only if its action is more effective than that which could be carried out at national or local level. All existing instruments must be reviewed in accordance with this principle. Finally, I would like to stress that this is not a technical debate. The reflection on the future of the European budget comes in a unique context, marked by unprecedented scepticism towards the European Union. Making EU spending and funding more effective, readable and accountable at the democratic level is an essential component of restoring confidence in the European Union and the legitimacy of its action. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group as well as on several benches of the REM, MODEM and NG groups]] You know that, Madam Minister, I sit in the opposition. I believe, however, in a convinced European, that the President of the Republic is right to say that he is in favour of a genuine budget for the euro area, with broad objectives and strong resources. Subject to these comments – you have noted some reservations – I am expressing a favourable opinion on section 27 of the 2018 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u27	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u28	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Special Rapporteur, Mr draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the amount of France's funding to the European Union for 2018. It is a very constrained exercise – I will come back to it – and very supervised, as it is part of the European Union's multi-annual financial framework, which runs from 2014 to 2020. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has, by a large majority, delivered a favourable opinion on this levy, and I would like to thank Maurice Leroy for his enlightening and relevant report, which opens up very fruitful avenues for reflection for the future. This green light is obviously, above all, a yes to Europe and to the actions implemented by the European institutions to support investment in research and the knowledge economy, to defend quality agriculture, to respond to new challenges such as the migration crisis or terrorism, and to strengthen territorial cohesion, which explains the increase in the 2018 budget. These are all areas where the right level of action is the European level. The overall amount of the European budget for next year is – as has already been pointed out – 145 billion in payment appropriations. I recall its broad breakdown: more than 55 billion for the Structural and Investment Funds and more than 59 billion for farmers and rural development, the rest being allocated to research, programmes such as Erasmus+, sustainable development, the migration challenge, security policy and the necessary assistance from Europe to countries that are on the front lines of the Middle East conflicts. Overall, this budget responds to the need for action at the right level. If our green light is given to this whole policy, it is nevertheless a demanding signal for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u30	This European budget, we parliamentarians, want to be actors in it. That is what needs to be changed in substance, by changing the timetable, by changing the method and, as you pointed out, by the Special Rapporteur, by re-thinking the exercise, first of all in the short term, for the coming months. Next spring, the European Commission will present a draft budget for 2019. It is at this point, ladies and gentlemen, that we must take this into account and debate it in depth. This first substantive exploratory work, which I hope will be followed by Parliament's recommendations, should, in my view, be carried out with the Committee on Finance and the committees concerned in the areas where Europe is expected. It will also be an opportunity for an initial exchange of views with the Government which, I hope, will be able to carry the demands of our Parliament during the budgetary debate in the European Council. Taking the time of the debate and setting a number of meetings over the year will make it possible to exercise our right of scrutiny, control and appreciation, as most, if not the majority, of the parliaments of our European neighbours on the same budgetary subject. It will be a way of regaining intimacy with the European debate and of weighing on the strategic choices that must be made by Europe on our behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u31	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u32	Our exercise will also need to be rethought over the long term. Brexit – as you pointed out, Mr Leroy – will have the effect of reducing the European budget from 12 billion to 15 billion, it will be effective in 2019, the year in which the next multiannual financial framework will be negotiated. There is therefore a double opportunity, which we must seize to recast and transform the European budget. From this point of view, Brexit may be a chance. The re-foundation of Europe to which the President of the Republic invites us must be based on a budget which is not the subject of bargaining relating to the issue of rebates. This poison of "just return" is the opposite of the spirit of European construction, namely the solidarity and convergence of our economies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u34	Yes, but not at our expense!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u35	This solidarity has encouraged the economic take-off of many countries, thus creating the largest space in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u36	[[Smile]] And the most beautiful blue sky!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Let's never forget it. We need a "resized" budget – I consciously borrow the expression of the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance for European Affairs, whom I find right – for a re-founded Europe, in line with the Sorbonne's speech of the President of the Republic: a dynamic, forward-looking budget that can rely on new own resources. Several proposals are on the table, notably from the High Level Group on Own Resources chaired by Mario Monti or from the European Commission: financial tax, carbon tax at the borders of the Union, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u38	More taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u39	... company tax which would finally allow the tax harmonisation which the European Union so much needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u41	All right! Do it and it'll be perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u42	In any case, it seems to me that these new resources must be the corollary of a new ambition for Europe in the areas of fiscal and social harmonisation and the construction of an exemplary area of sustainable development. These proposals need to be discussed to a large extent, beyond the current narrow circles. It is a debate for citizens and for national representation. We also need a European budget that is democratic in line with the mandate of the European Commission and the renewal of the European Parliament. However, the time of the seven-year financial framework, adopted even before the elections, does not correspond to the time of democracy. Again, there will be a need for reflection and change. Finally, we need a more readable European budget for citizens – as has been said – and more responsive to act in an emergency. A readable budget is a budget that sets targets with means to achieve them. It is a budget where expenditures are evaluated and can thus evolve in the service of greater efficiency. This culture of evaluation, which now permeates all the countries of the European Union, will have to be imposed on the European institutions, starting with the Commission. A responsive budget is an autonomous budget that enables the Union to act without delay; It is a budget that avoids finding itself in the situation described by Jean Arthuis, chairman of the Committee on Budgets in the European Parliament: "As soon as we have to finance something to deal with a crisis, we invent budgetary satellites, various and varied funds, and we find it difficult to obtain from the states that they abound them widely. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u44	That is, in a few words, the need for the profound change that we need to make in order for Europe to meet the ambitions that we have set in it: a Europe that is concerned with the major issues at stake, a Europe that protects, creates and invests in the future, a Europe for times of hard competition with new major trading powers, a Europe that meets the challenge of global warming, a Europe that responds with the highest level of efficiency in the fight against terrorism. Finally, a Europe that goes further in economic and social matters. We support the idea that countries that share the same currency must be at the forefront of economic and social integration, keeping the door open to those who are destined to join them, and that they will have to be able to equip themselves tomorrow with new instruments to regain efficiency in collective action. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European budget we want for tomorrow will have to be at the service of a more political and democratic Europe, so that the citizens will finally take over this beautiful idea of the European Union. It is our responsibility, that of our Parliament, to participate in the creation of a European democratic area in which our citizens will finally have their full place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u45	I applaud a third of your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u46	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u47	She'll say the same thing, but with other words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union today gives us the opportunity to ask ourselves about the policies developed at European level, their financing, their implementation and their effectiveness. I note that France's contribution to the European Union budget remains relatively stable. It will be €20.2 billion in 2018, compared to just over €19 billion in 2017. In 2018, France is, behind Germany, the second largest contributor to the European budget. Yet the fact is as unquestionable as it is old: the overall budget of the European Union is still far too weak to respond effectively to our challenges. The European Union is now at a turning point in its history. For major projects to succeed, it takes will and means. The political will is undeniable: the Government and the majority want to be fully part of the momentum initiated by the President of the Republic. The success of this project will also require an appropriate response to budgetary questions. Today's debate is an opportunity to discuss these issues. We must be a force for proposals so that our ambitions do not remain dead letter and will be realized in the coming years. In this context, some elements of context must be recalled. The European budget shall be drawn up annually in accordance with the ceilings set by the European institutions in the multiannual financial framework. The current framework covers the period 2014-2020. It was the subject of a mid-term review last year. I will not dwell on the content of this review, but I stress that it has highlighted the need to mobilise more resources to stimulate employment and growth and to deal with the migration crisis. I want to highlight two issues. The first concerns multi-annual planning. Indeed, it is essential to have a vision of the evolution of European expenditure, but it is also necessary to be able to adapt the budgetary framework to the real context. The mobilisation of the instruments of flexibility has enabled the European Union to cope with expenditure which cannot, by its very nature, be anticipated – I am thinking in particular of the means mobilised to strengthen security in Europe and to help some of our European partners to cope with the migration crisis. It therefore seems to me that multiannual programming could be limited to five years. Such a measure would make it possible to better align the multiannual financial framework with the duration of the Commission's and the European Parliament's mandates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u49	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u50	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u51	We could thus ensure greater coherence between the budgetary guidelines and the European democratic cycles. The second point highlighted by the revision of the financial framework is the gap between the scale of the challenges facing the European Union and the weakness of its budget. These elements need to be taken into account as negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework begin soon. Of course, this will not be easy: I am against the particularly difficult negotiations that have taken place in the previous fiscal year. Of course, the economic and social differences between the Member States and their different views on the future of the Union will lead to differences, but I am convinced that it is healthy for everyone to express their ideas and that all Member States will then work to build new balances. We must not be afraid to debate. On the contrary, we must put the cards on the table and discuss in a frank, open and respectful manner. The challenge is great, but it is not insurmountable. In order to convince, it must be demonstrated that Europe is, in certain strategic areas, the best level to act. I would like to highlight, from a forward-looking perspective, three major areas. European defence, first of all, is a crucial issue. The European Commission has already proposed the creation of a European defence fund and permanent structured cooperation. In the long run, the Head of State also wants the creation of a common defence budget. It is now imperative that these projects be successful and financially supported. The second challenge is to position ourselves at the forefront of digital innovation. Europe has missed the first digital revolution in favour of almost exclusively American companies. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need a common digital strategy. The third priority concerns the common agricultural policy. Negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework should be an opportunity to reflect on the future of this emblematic policy of the European Union. An effective mechanism must be adopted to secure farmers' margins and incomes in the event of climatic and economic hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u53	It's about time! There's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u54	If the European Union wants to live up to its ambitions and assert itself on the international stage as a power that counts, it will have to change its methods of financing. The European budget is fragile because it depends to a large extent on the contributions of the Member States, which are themselves subject to economic hazards. So we need both more resources and less fluctuating resources. More resources means new resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u56	An ambitious reflection must be carried out, in the continuity of the work of the High Level Group on Own Resources chaired by Mario Monti. In December 2016, the former President of the European Commission proposed several innovative avenues, which deserve to be taken into account. In particular, I agree with the idea of a resource consisting of part of the tax revenue from a European corporation tax and part of the tax revenue from financial transactions. The draft financial transaction tax is sensitive but also needs our attention. The proposal of the President of the Republic to generalize to all the countries of the European Union one of the taxes existing today in our country and in the United Kingdom has the merit of simplicity. Finally, the introduction of new resources for the European Union must be accompanied by a thorough reflection on their allocation. I believe it is important to improve the consistency between the revenue received and its use. The initiatives of the European Commission, which proposes a performance-based budget, are interesting: they aim to ensure greater coherence between the objectives pursued, the means implemented and the concrete results. This would be a guarantee of efficiency and sound budgetary management. It would also make it possible to better communicate Europe's concrete action and its modalities. Good understanding by European citizens of European actions is essential for their consent to tax. Let us be clear: if it is necessary to provide the European Union with additional resources to achieve its objectives, any creation of a European tax will have to be fair, balanced and offset by a reduction in other types of taxation. Europe needs a new impetus because it is about to experience a difficult historical situation that we have already mentioned: one of its members, the United Kingdom, has decided to make use of its right to leave it. Personally, I regret that, but I think that today we need to redouble our political will to restore meaning and coherence to the European project. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must take advantage of the major change that is Brexit to engage in a profound reflection, both political and technical, on the budget of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u57	Mr Alexandre Holroyd, co-rapporteur for information of the Committee on European Affairs on the draft budget of the European Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister responsible for European Affairs, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mrs President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the exercise we are being asked to carry out in this debate is a bit special, since we have to discuss the amount that our country is about to pay to the European Union. As has been said, the French contribution to the European budget for 2018 will amount to €20.2 billion. France is thus the second largest contributor to the Union's budget, behind Germany. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This debate is above all an opportunity for us to talk about Europe and the economic and financial prospects for the years to come. The revenue levy is the product of more than fifty years of European construction. However, the European budget remains, year after year, decade after decade, disproportionately weak in view of the ambitions of the European project. A budget of just 1% of the Union's GDP is undoubtedly croquignolesque given our expectations for Europe. Let us be frank: in recent years the European Union has failed to live up to its ambitions of liberating endogenous growth and effectively protecting our fellow citizens from the new threats of the millennium. The difficulties it faces today must more than ever be an injunction to action. They stress the urgent need to redouble political will and courage, especially as the historic deadline for the voluntary departure of one of its main members and budget contributors approaches. Indeed, we are coming to the end of the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020 and it will very soon be up to the Member States to negotiate with the European institutions the next framework for multi-annual programming. With this in mind, we need to reflect on how the European budget works and how it is financed. Its excessive dependence on Member States' contributions, which in turn depend largely on the economic situation, the overly complex calculation rules that determine the amounts of national contributions and the existence of derogating mechanisms for rebates, are all weaknesses that we need to address. Beyond these technical questions, we also need, and above all, to reflect on the future of certain European policies. The common agricultural policy, a symbol of European integration, must be transformed: its greening and its ability to protect while guaranteeing the quality of life of European farmers are priorities for the years to come. Cohesion policy, which is the other emblematic policy of the Union, will also have to evolve: the introduction of greater conditionality in European aid could be envisaged in order to ensure that it serves the objective of greater economic, social and fiscal convergence between the Member States. In this regard, we need to be more ambitious. To assert itself as an innovative economic power and an area of freedom and security, Europe must be able to afford its ambitions. It is our common responsibility to give them to him. In the digital field, the European Union must anticipate and accelerate its transition. The President of the Republic stressed this: we need an innovative Europe, a Europe of digital champions, capable of attracting scientific and entrepreneurial talent. The European Agency for Breakout Innovation, proposed by the President of the Republic, can enable us to stimulate this digital dynamism, but we must accompany its development with budgetary reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u59	They're just words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u60	There is another transition that the European Union must make: the ecological transition. The transformation of economic systems and behaviour must be encouraged, and the possibility of creating, as part of a review of European carbon pricing policies, an environmental tax at the borders seems to me to have to be studied, especially if the resources collected were to finance the European budget. Finally – and I will end with that because I have not had enough time – the European Union's defence ambition must be supported. The preparatory action on defence research, launched by the European Commission in 2017 and which will continue in 2018 for an amount of €40 million, is moving in the right direction. However, much more needs to be done if a common European intervention force is to be achieved. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Madam Minister, the President of the Republic has detailed in his speech from the Sorbonne the course that must be that of Europe: a course that assures our future by reshaping a sovereign, united and democratic Europe. A successful conclusion to the bitter budgetary discussions in Brussels will be essential if we are to live up to this ambition, and here I want to assure you of the unwavering support that you will find in this House, and particularly in this majority, in order to succeed in your difficult task.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u61	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Christophe Naegelen, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the revenue levy for the European Union is very important for a number of reasons, particularly when considering the amounts involved. With EUR 20.2 billion, it is one of the highest budgets under discussion in the draft finance law for 2018, but it is also an opportunity to carry out an in-depth examination of the common policies of the European Union and our choice of direction for the future of Europe, but also of the priorities that we need to define between national and European policy. First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate Maurice Leroy, draftsman of the opinion, and the services of the Committee on European Affairs, who give us an informed report, which is neither beat nor Eurosceptic. To talk about the budget is to talk about our project for Europe and our ambition for the future. The globalised context, with strong competition – in the East and West, but also in the South – means that Europe must continue to build itself and, in order to do so, have the means to do so. As a great power, it is normal for France to contribute to this, but it is regrettable to see the low rate of traditional own resources in the overall budget of the European Union. This should invite us to consider ways of making the Union less dependent on the Member States, which means moving towards European taxation aimed at achieving harmonisation – including, first of all, tax harmonisation – between the Member States. News also, particularly with Brexit, must alert us. The British decision may be regrettable, but it must make us think and give us an opportunity for an ambitious reform of the European Union, particularly its system of resources and redistribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u64	The revenue levy can be perceived by some as an important burden on the State budget. That is why this debate is also an opportunity to discuss all the interactions between our country's public finances and European integration. The reading of our colleague's report confirms that France holds its place in this European project. It ranks third among the net volume contributors to the European Union budget, after Germany and the United Kingdom – whose future within the Union remains unclear. Its contribution is an increase of about €1.21 billion compared to 2017, where it already accounted for more than 6% of total government spending, excluding debt and pensions. Our participation in the European budget has become one of the most dynamic expenditure items in our national budget. The amount of our contribution to the European Union, including traditional own resources, was multiplied by five in value between 1982 and 2018, from EUR 4.1 billion to EUR 20.2 billion, at constant scope. There is also a gap between total government spending, which has decreased by €2.7 billion in value since 2012, and the increase in the revenue levy, which has increased by €2.2 billion over the same period. The system, already mentioned, of the zero-value standard will and must evolve, which is rather positive and should be welcomed. Returns from the European budget to France are not recorded in the general government accounts. Their amount and impact on the government deficit is therefore not assessed, although they should not be neglected. France's net balance today stands at €6.17 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u65	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u66	Indeed, the returns to which we benefit amounted to EUR 14.5 billion in 2015, of which 62% were under the CAP. In terms of per capita return, France is only the twenty-first beneficiary of EU expenditure, including administrative expenditure. We will certainly be told that this is not the spirit of the European Union and that solidarity must take precedence. However, Member States have chosen to subject themselves to strict budgetary discipline and the Union cannot ask its members to increase their contribution for economically difficult years. At the very least, it would be paradoxical to tell us to reduce our deficit while increasing our contributions to the Union budget. We must therefore reflect on the role and priorities of the European budget, in order to be able to finance the investments necessary to improve our potential growth, modernise our infrastructure, or even green growth. It is also important to ensure the consistency and usefulness of certain expenditure – I am thinking in particular of the sums paid to Turkey to manage the flows of migrants at the gates of the European Union or to allow it to prepare for its future entry into the Union, which is at present rather compromised.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u68	The lack of pooling of defence spending in Europe places the burden of security on the continent and the financial effort that accompanies it primarily on France. To the extent that defence expenditure from the European budget is blocked, I believe it is necessary to give serious consideration to the proposal for the creation of a European common defence fund. One could then imagine deducting from the European levy the amount of external operations – OPEX – which meet a peace stabilization objective and protect the European Union more or less directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u70	In conclusion, in this globalized context, we must be the leaders of the construction of a strong Europe, which pools resources without creating duplication of expenditure with national policies. France must be vigilant about the objectives of its contribution – how else can we explain it to the French, to whom we ask for daily efforts?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u71	Especially when you remove the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u72	Money not growing on trees, and since we are asking our fellow citizens to make drastic savings, we cannot allow our contribution to be used without strict control. Each country must bring its stone to the building of this beautiful construction, but wanting to grow too fast without ensuring that it rests on solid foundations can put the whole structure in jeopardy. The cement of solidarity between the Member States must not make us forget the fairness and the correctness of the ratio between the status of contributor and beneficiary. From this point of view, France is now losing. Moreover, the opacity of the contribution and the revenue, particularly in view of the absence of the annex to the draft finance law relating, inter alia, to financial relations with the European Union, does not allow us to go into detail and exercise our monitoring mission. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] The Constructives, members of a group that has Europe in its DNA, will vote as usual freely, but after listening carefully to the opinion of the rapporteur Maurice Leroy. Personally, and although I am a fervent defender of Europe, I regret that far too many areas of shadow and a degree of illegibility do not allow for the substantive work that our fellow citizens are entitled to expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u73	Then join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u74	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u75	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairperson of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairperson of the Committee on European Affairs, the Rapporteur-General, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the financial relations between the budget of France and that of the European Union are now crystallising, for many, around the revenue levy which we are debating with this Article 27. From a budgetary point of view, this revenue levy amounts to providing the European Union with EUR 20.21 billion in 2018, representing 15% of the European Union's budget. This estimate – because that's an estimate you're asking us to vote for: that's where it hurts – corresponds to an increase of 2.3 billion euros, more than 13% compared to the revised assessment for 2017. This debate is also an opportunity to discuss all the interactions between national public finances and European integration; I am thinking in particular of the way in which the Stability and Growth Pact and its flexibility clauses are implemented. I will start with the budgetary aspects of the revenue levy. Since 2013, France's contribution to the European Union budget has been around 20 billion euros, or 1% of our GDP. This order of magnitude is generally found in all European countries, but with some small differences depending on whether or not countries benefit from rebates. For 2017, the amount of the voted revenue levy is €18.69 billion; It then fell to EUR 17.87 billion, or EUR 800 million less. Indeed, the European Union voted five amending budgets during the year, changing the amount we had voted for the previous autumn. By the end of October 2017, the Commission is expected to submit a sixth draft amending budget, which will incorporate the effects of updating the bases and contribution keys of the Member States. These methods of calculation of course raise many questions. In our public accounts, the revenue levy is not an expenditure. When we vote on expenses, we have an agreed budget: 100 equals 100, we cannot spend 101. With the revenue levy, you can have surprises throughout the year – more or less. From the democratic point of view, from the point of view of our institutions, from the point of view of respecting Parliament's decision, this raises many questions. In national accounts, the revenue levy appears to be an expenditure. What's the difference, will you ask me? If the revenue levy increases during the year, we must find savings elsewhere in order to respect the budget we voted for. This kind of surprise, minister, is not acceptable: we cannot ask the national representation to commit to a budget, to a certain level of public deficit and to a rate of expenditure if we are given the bad surprise, nine months later, to announce that the revenue levy is increasing by 1.5 billion – even if it is true that sometimes the surprise can be good, since it can also decrease. This is a work to be done with your counterparts in the European Union to ensure that accounting is fair and that, when national parliaments speak on the European Union budget and on the contribution of countries to that budget, the amount voted is respected. I really think that this device is not tenable, especially in the Brexit, which is becoming more precise. Let us now come to the purpose of this budget. Again, there are many hypocrisys – the speakers who preceded me noted some of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u76	We are in continuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u77	On 18 October, Mr Mélenchon declared in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that he was "absolutely opposed to this levy".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u78	You mustn't piss him off!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u79	I never piss him off! I have only read what is written in the transcript; The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was particularly interesting on this point. At the same time – to repeat a fashionable expression – the Group of the GUE – European United Left –, where it was still sitting less than six months ago, tabled an amendment on 19 October in the European Parliament, last Thursday, aiming to multiply the European Union's budget by eight. The revenue levy would thus rise to 8% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u80	Really? Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u81	I think there's a contradiction. We cannot say in Brussels that we must multiply the budget by eight and here – I don't know if he will repeat it in the Chamber because he intervenes after me –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u82	Above all, you should be kept informed: we have not been in the European Parliament for six months!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u83	When you were in the European Parliament, you were a good member of this political group, and it was this group that tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u84	I'm unmasked!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u85	This illustrates a very French form of hypocrisy, which consists of saying white in Paris and another color in Brussels,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u86	And sometimes even the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u87	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ...and that's disturbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u88	How much did you get to find this?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u89	Another French evil awaits us, Madam Minister: that of not mobilizing all the provisions of the treaties in force, as our colleague from the Les Constructifs group pointed out earlier. Legally, it is possible to request the application of a flexibility clause in the corrective part of the Stability and Growth Pact, so that any exceptional additional security expenditure is not included in the Maastrichtian public deficit. This does not mean that we do not pay these expenses, but simply that, from the point of view of the Maastrichtian accounts, these expenses would be subtracted. I could quote from Article 2 of Council Regulation No 1467/97 of 7 July 1997, which specifies this provision contained in the Maastricht Treaty, well before the adoption of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union in 2012. However, Madam Minister, your colleagues in the Government rejected last week, in the context of the examination of the finance law, the idea of activating this provision, even though Italy, Belgium, Austria, Slovenia and Finland did. I come to my second question, which we have already discussed at length: that of the indicators used by the European Union, in particular that of potential growth. Minister, the International Monetary Fund acknowledged in 2013 that there was an error in its definition of potential growth. By the voice of Olivier Blanchard, corrections were made. The European Union is calmly closing its eyes on this issue. By basing its calculations on false indicators, it has called upon some States to make out-of-standard and unacceptable efforts, to interfere with economic recovery and to be very detrimental to our continent. European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u90	Your friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u91	... undertook in writing on 9 June 2016 – more than a year ago – to have this methodology revised. Minister, where are we on this point? We cannot continue to steer the European Union with false indicators, even though other international bodies, such as the IMF, have changed them. I mean, a word about Brexit. As you are asking us to vote on the revenue levy, Madam Minister, you should be able to tell us what the amount could be after the UK's departure. We had already been told that we didn't know last year; The same is true this year. We must give visibility to national parliaments. It is essential that we be given...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u92	At least a fork!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u93	... at least one fork, indeed, allowing for a more serious understanding of this subject. In conclusion, I invite those who think that it is better to be outside rather than within the European Union to look very seriously at the consequences of the leap into the unknown of Brexit. For the United Kingdom, it is estimated that the exit from the European Union will lead to a decline in GDP between 3% and 7%. This will have tax consequences: tax revenue losses for the United Kingdom are estimated at between 20 and 45 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u94	They, at least, assume the decision of their people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM and MODEM groups]] This is a net amount, i.e. taking into account the savings associated with the end of the British contribution. The New Left Group will vote on Article 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u96	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u97	[[Murmures]] President, minister, colleagues, hello! Since the speech of the President of the Republic to the Sorbonne, I believe that the campaign for the next European elections has begun, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u98	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u99	He is right to say that it is an opportunity for us, French – all of us – to propose a solution to the political, economic and moral impasse in which the European Union is locked up, whose construction seems to be somewhat blocked by the circumstances. [[Smile]] This debate must be approached with respect, that is, in the refusal to caricature the positions in question. Caricature will never convince those who pronounce it, and not those who receive it. That is why, when I read in a newspaper that I am in the "sovereignist temptation", the former choir child I am smiling at, knowing that temptation is a peccamineous desire and the prefiguration of evil. Frankly, is the discussion about evil or good, about beautiful, just or infamous nationalism? No, I don't believe it. I will reassure you, for the quality of our debate: no, the problem is not Europe, it is the financial capitalism to which it is governed by its financial treaties. For us, the problem is not the foreigner: it is the absolute refusal to ensure a situation of equal rights with him. For us, the problem is not to make Europe, it is to refuse to undo France in order to achieve it. Undo France, that is to say all that constitutes it: its secularity, first – not only its flag, but the symbols of its secularity, its real secularity –; its public services; its industrial champions; its egalitarian vocation; its universalistic identity;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u100	She's not under threat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u101	...and finally, his refusal to be controlled, his will to be independent. That's the idea I'm worried about, and nothing else. It shouldn't be worth being locked up, with my friends, in a confusion: talking about independence, it would mean falling back on yourself. But what? Since when is the affirmation of self and its values a retreat? It's the opposite: it's the enthusiasm that moves us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u102	You are not alone: you have the National Front with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u103	When we are called sovereignists, I and my friends, I have only one thing to say to you: call us as you wish, as long as, when we speak of sovereignism, we hear that it is the sovereignty of the people, the only acceptable sovereignty. And why talk about it? Is this a trial of intent? Do I have to remind you that before Brexit, that is, when a people decides to leave, there were other votes? How have they been treated? Denmark, refusing the Maastricht Treaty: forced to reconsider! Ireland, refusing the Treaty of Nice: forced to reconsider! France and the Netherlands voting against: no account is taken of it! The Greek referendum, ruling against a memorandum: no one cares! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There is an authoritarian drift, of which Mr Juncker ended up expressing the whole spirit by pretending that there was no possible democracy in Europe outside the Treaties. Yes! And I even wonder whether there is no democracy unless we get out of the treaties, in particular the budget treaties. They are the ones who create tension within and between nations, to the extent that the peoples come to confront each other, not only among themselves, but within nations, until they dismember themselves after being transformed into empty shells. [[Smile]] Let me turn to the report: that's not what he's talking about. The rapporteur did his job,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u104	That's a good point already!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u105	... the report is well done, and I want to stress the quality of it. I totally disapprove of the conclusion, but the quality is indisputable: it points to real problems and real topics of discussion. But finally, what is observed, after all these songs about Europe, its beneficent character, its openness, etc. - Is that what you're saying? Europe is increasingly dependent on the contribution of nations, which are described, pointed at and stoned. At the beginning, in 1988, it was a small 10% for the Member States and we are now returning to 60% of the Union's total revenue. Secondly, regarding revenue – you will see that it has political implications – after seeing that the nations are doing everything, we look at the European Union's own revenue box, in this case customs duties. And what do we see? They fell from 30 per cent to just 14 per cent. And why? Because the free trade treaties which, moreover, destroy our jobs, disfigure our societies, etc., cause the European Union's customs revenues to decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u106	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u107	Here's an organism that's killing itself! And then, in this case, it must be observed that this Europe, which gives so many lessons to others, is certainly the most poorly managed European body. How do you explain that, until last year, we were almost 20 billion unpaid?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u108	More like 24 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u109	Grandiosis, right? This year, this amount has fallen, I admit, but when the cycle of the multi-year budget – because there is also this strangeness, which goes beyond the mandate of a Member of Parliament, dear Mrs Rabault – will come to an end, let us say that we will be short of 240 billion, because 240 billion expenditure will have been decided without having been paid. These are the management achievements of the European Union! I pass the rest to you, all those bodies that are of no use, like the European External Action Service, whose Baroness Ashton has had the frankness to say that she did not know what it was for, although she was at her head, but that she thought that the organ would eventually define the function. That's where we're headed in this case. For France, it's more and more expensive. I assure you, Mrs. Rabault: I never said I was against the levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u110	Yes, yes, it is in the minutes of the committee meeting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u111	[[Laughs]] But listen, you and the others! Don't just read the records from Solferino!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u112	Solferino?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u113	[[Smile]] Solferino doesn't answer any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u114	I am against the payment of the surplus and I will explain why. France's contribution is increasingly important. The levy has been multiplied by five since 1982 and you will see that there will be 5 billion more for the next period. It's very expensive paid for what we have. Yes, I am against the payment of France's positive surplus. Indeed, we give 20 billion and we receive 14 billion to implement an agricultural policy that I condemn in every possible way. So we're contributing 6 billion net. If these 6 billion had remained in the state coffers, we would meet the 3% criterion and there would be no need to undertake the measures we are taking to reduce the structural deficit. I would add that, in this finance bill, $16 billion is raised from the state budget: $10 billion to offset tax cuts, $6 billion in pure savings. Well, those 6 billion are the ones we give Europe. This is not the first time since, since 2012, all the surplus, i.e. the savings made on the perimeter of the State, has been paid to Europe. Don't you think that this deserves a discussion that is much more in-depth than the confrontation of denunciations and rattles of enthusiasm? So I'm against the fact that we're paying the surplus. On the other hand, I am in favour of opening up an excessive trade surplus procedure against Germany, because what is being built is an economic model modelled on that of Germany. The European treaties condemn these surpluses because they are always made on the backs of others. Why don't we start a procedure? Don't we have the right to tell our German friends that they're exaggerating? When the English told us they wanted a discount, which represented 60% of their contribution, the Germans said they would pay only 25% of the rest. And we, the French, pay the most! Is this a normal situation, when we're supposed to be in an excessive deficit?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u115	It's not fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u116	If they don't respect the rules, they have to be respected. It all revolves around one question: debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u117	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u118	This is the great question of the European continent. We have to pay the debt. This will not be achieved by gross surpluses from year to year. With what the current government is doing – and it is making an effort to do so, you know as I do, we are pretty much denouncing the violence – five points, it will take a hundred years to finish paying that debt. The debt must therefore be cancelled, particularly that of the French, because it is excessive. Too much is due to the interest rates of the 1990s, which have no reason to be other than the fact that the Germans decided to give for 1 mark in the East 1 mark in the West, and that in order to counter the inflation which followed, the interest rates rose to 6%, 7% or even 8%. If we had borrowed at the time at a rate of 2% – the current rate, and even less – France's debt would be 30% lower.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u119	And if my aunt had one, we'd call her my uncle!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u120	These are realities. We cannot accept that this situation persists and that we, the French, have as our only ambition to be, as President Hollande had said, the best students in the class. No way! We have to go back to this debt, we have to re-evaluate it, we have to clear it. And for that, all you have to do is make a moratorium or freeze it. There's nothing easier. I come to my conclusion before I'm invited. Everyone must have a plan B, and you people from The Republic on the move, like us, you have one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u121	[[Smile]] It's better than a T-plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u122	[[New smiles]] Maurice, stop being a monkey! Is there a funding problem? You're introducing a carbon tax. The President wants a carbon tax at the borders. You have all understood that this is called protectionism. Propose it: we will vote in favour. We also propose a social tax. We have a plan B in our own way. Do you have one? If they refuse, what will you do? If they don't want to tax GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – if they don't want to change the status of posted worker, what will you do? Cross arms, will you protest? Or do you have a method to replicate? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We have a plan B. I sum it up to a sentence delivered by my comrade Catarina Martins in Lisbon on the occasion of the grand gathering of Plan B: "Between the budgetary treaties and the peoples, we have chosen the peoples. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u123	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u124	Hello everyone: it will go faster – we know who is there. Europe is now undermined by inequalities, far from the European dream to which Communist MEPs remain committed, that of a union of peoples living in cooperation and solidarity. This lack of dream and cohesion, it pays dearly today. The rise of anti-European extremism in almost all Member States is the most obvious demonstration of citizens' sense of distrust of a European Union perceived as an institution for the competition of peoples and considered incapable of responding to economic and social emergencies. There are many reasons for this mistrust, including the fate of the European citizens, who remain the great forgotten of the European Union. A study published a few days ago by Eurostat indicates that 23% of them are in poverty. They pay for the lack of social harmonisation between the States of the Union. The Bulgarian population is affected by more than 41%, the Romanians by more than 38% and the Greek people by more than 35%, while at the other end of the ranking the Czech Republic, Finland or Denmark are slightly less affected, with a rate of around 15%. One of the key objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy is to lower the poverty rate, but it is likely to fail because poverty is increasing and precariousness has become a model in the richest countries. But the people of Europe do not want a Europe of mini-jobs and jobs at 1 euro per hour. European citizens today aspire to a fair and equitable model. How can we believe it when they learn, as they did a few days ago, that the European Central Bank has won – listen carefully – €7.8 billion thanks to the Greek treasury bonds it has held since 2012?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u125	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u126	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u127	These heinous profits made on the backs of people who still pay so heavily the Brussels diktats are unbearable, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u129	When will reason take over? The time is long, very long for this awareness. If people are to have confidence in the European project, we must free ourselves from market oversight, we must deconstruct the rules and doctrines of the euro area, reorient the priorities for public, social and ecological investment. The ECB must be put at the service of this project, rather than enriching itself on the misery of the peoples. Having made these preliminary remarks, let us turn to article 27 of the draft finance law for 2018, which deals with the amount of the revenue levy from France for the benefit of the European Union. This year, France is contributing EUR 20.2 billion, or 15% of the European budget, to the European Union, which amounts to 161 billion in commitment appropriations and 145 billion in payment appropriations. France's revenue levy is inflated by €2.3 billion for 2018. Such a contribution is important: it takes place after the budgets of school education, defence, research and higher education and before all the other budgetary tasks that we will consider in the second part of the finance bill. It's not nothing; Our contribution should finance more useful expenditure than is proposed by the Council. As part of the continuity of 2017, the European budget, which is still contested by Parliament, focuses on growth, jobs, security and migration issues. Under these precepts, the Council hopes that more than EUR 122.5 billion, or almost 85% of the total, will be used to help stimulate growth and create jobs. In total, the Council provides for $158.9 billion in commitment appropriations and $144.4 billion in payment appropriations. This represents an increase of 0.6% and 7.4%, respectively, over the 2017 budget. The sharp increase in payment appropriations is linked to the fact that the implementation of the programmes for the period 2014-2020, initially timid, is rising in power, we have been told. With the priorities proposed by the Council, employment and investment-related programmes are increasing their appropriations. This is the case with the European Fund for Strategic Investments or the Erasmus+ programme. Overall, the budget for competitiveness for growth and employment is up 2.5%. As far as security is concerned, the budgets are increasingly large: the EU's overall allocation for migration and security is increased to an unprecedented amount of €22 billion for the period 2015-2018, benefiting actions aimed at combating migration directly in the countries of origin. The budget for external action remains high because of the migration agreement with Turkey to limit the arrival of people who seek to flee from wars and poverty. This agreement is unbearable to us. The budget approved by the Council, which is largely geared towards competitiveness for growth and jobs, leaves aside what should do Europe's salt: economic, social and territorial cohesion. While spending on this budget line is up from 2.4% to 55.41 billion euros, it is largely insufficient in terms of basic needs to make Europe indispensable, protective and creating social ties. We say this regularly: we have always supported a European budget designed by the peoples and for the peoples, not by the liberals, to maximize their profits. Moreover, one of the European ambitions we call for would be to find a compromise on tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u131	This is the financial challenge for Europe's budget, because the losses caused by these leaks are enormous: 80 billion for France and 1000 billion for the European Union each year, equivalent to six times the annual European budget. Let us dare to organise a global tax COP, on the initiative of the European Union, and try to put an end to this scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u133	Fiscal leverage is also fundamental. The question of its harmonisation and of a political Europe which would also take over the reins of its central bank in order finally to regain control of monetary policy must be raised with courage. You're gonna have to dare that too. The European Union's trampling on these issues is a serious failure that we denounce. In conclusion, we still have to worry about the continued increase in France's net contribution. The amount of the French contribution has increased sixfold between 1982 and 2016, reaching today more than 20 billion euros. This would not be a problem if, at the same time, Brussels, in its obsession with budgetary orthodoxy, did not constantly frame any expenditure by the Member States which it considered unnecessary. In fact, I would like to strongly denounce the asymmetry of the governance of the European Union, which is, on the one hand, to increase the contributions of States and, on the other, to sign free trade agreements, without worrying about their social, ecological or health impacts. Because of treaties such as the so-called comprehensive economic and trade agreement – CETA – with Canada, the European Union is reducing its already too meagre tariffs, which are almost its only own financing capacity – Maurice Leroy said. Because of CETA, Europe will receive even less customs duties. Isn't that absurd? It is unfair for Member States to be the European Union's budgetary adjustment variable and to be constantly forced to compensate for the reduction of these customs duties. For European citizens, it is the double penalty: while they are victims of the damage caused by these treaties – loss of jobs, deterioration of their environment or even of their health – they are the ones who compensate for the EU's revenue cuts by their taxes. Isn't that outrageous? All this highlights the fact that Europe's problem is in any case less financial than political. The Brexit and the rise of the just angers that the nationalisms have led to illustrate Brussels' chronic inability to respond to citizens who no longer believe in Europe. It is time to break this ultraliberal Europe. The construction of a Europe of finance, at the service of predatory capitalism, is ultra-reactionary; It is the negation of all modernity. The twenty-first century must be that of progress and social justice for the peoples of Europe. The time has come for a re-foundation of Europe, through an economic, political, social and cultural break-up. The idea of a nation remains a strong idea. In France, it is the cement of our republican and democratic model. It is up to all the forces of progress, as well as to the Democrats and Republicans of our country, in their diversity, to work on another vision of Europe. This is an urgent matter. Europe must not wait for implosion before re-establishing itself around a union of European peoples on a social and human basis. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Because they defend another Europe and do not share the limited and liberal ambitions of this budget, the Communist and Left Front MPs will vote against Article 27 of the Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u134	Mr Ludovic Mendes, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u135	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, our discussions this afternoon on our country's contribution to the European budget clearly reflect the differences in our conceptions of France's role in the European Union. This participation in the European budget reinforces the idea that the European Union is much more than a political project: it is a hope. Let's not let his detractors shoot us down! As Mark Twain said: "When the years have passed, we will be more disappointed by the things we have not done than by the things we have done. We must therefore build a more united, stronger Europe, and this construction will be done through our contribution to the European budget. Let's not be afraid of our ambitions! Let's assume and dare! I note that some people are offended by the fact that our country is making an important contribution to the Community budget. We are content to see France hold its rank and assume its role. The French contribution to the European budget must be part of a larger, more comprehensive project: the recasting of the European project, called for by the President of the Republic. Let us always remember this: if we feel that we are stuck, it is not because we would not have the means of our ambitions; On the contrary, it is because our ambitions are not up to our means! To contribute to the Community budget is to provide the Union with the means to act in all areas where it is sought and, above all, to show our involvement and belief in the European project. If we want to face the challenges of our century – effectively fight terrorism, respond to the migration challenge, better protect our borders, face the instability of the world, no longer face globalisation, affirm and defend our values, respond to the climate emergency, be able to weigh against the powers of today and tomorrow, guarantee European unity after Brexit, fight against deadly nationalism – then we must think solidarity, we must think unity, we must think the future. This weekend, together with some of our colleagues, I was in Berlin, meeting our counterparts in the Bundestag. Our German colleagues have told us that they wish to see France maintain its position. France must become a locomotive again for Europe. That is why we must express our solidarity with our fellow Europeans. The European Union is not threatened in its existence because solidarity is a voluntary act, it must come from the heart, it cannot be imposed. The heart, yes, the heart, because we love Europe, and we demand it! We have to get the message out because we can't afford to delay anymore. Especially since, faced with major challenges, the critical size is necessarily European, as President Juncker explains. In order to make the European budget more fair and readable, it will be necessary in the coming years to rethink its construction in order to make it stronger and more legitimate. We are right to criticise the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u136	Oh, no! Don't do that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u137	[[Smile]] What a nationalism! That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u138	As the President of the Republic said, we would be "wrong to leave the criticism of Europe to those who hate it". That is why we want a Europe capable of responding to contemporary challenges, which will result in the continuity of our budgetary investment. At present, the main problem is that the Union, which cannot rely on direct and numerous levies, is financed by contributions from the Member States. It would therefore be appropriate to consider the introduction of direct levies constituting a substantial part of the sources of financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u139	We could create a European ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u140	This new leverage would gradually reduce the Member States' direct contribution to the Community budget and bypass the current pitfall of correction mechanisms, which are often a source of dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u141	Be careful! You're on the wrong slope!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u142	In the long term, the European re-foundation will also involve a strong and balanced governance of the euro area, which would allow real economic and monetary leadership, which would be beneficial for the whole area. We were on the brink of the abyss and now we have created a new system of governance that is much stronger and stronger than ever, a Europe that is winning the battle for trade and investment – but winning the battle, ladies and gentlemen, is not winning the war. France is once again a strong and credible partner in the eyes of other Member States. This credibility honours and compels us. The commitment to keep the government deficit below the 3% threshold is maintained and puts our country back on the path of mutual trust with our partners. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we consider that the French contribution to the Community budget is balanced and equal to the French ambitions in European matters. Because the European project must become this hope again, this desire to move forward, let us remember that it was built with this fraternity and solidarity that has protected us from conflicts for almost seventy years. Because a man without memory is a man without life, a people without memory is a people without future, it must be remembered. Remembering is creating, said Victor Hugo. We want a strong and united Europe. Then let's love her and criticize her! Let us be authentic with her, even in adversity! Ten years after the outbreak of the crisis, Europe is finally experiencing an economic rebound and, with it, a renewed confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u143	[[Smile]] Thanks to Jupiter!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u144	"Together, we are putting the Union back at the heart of the Union," President Juncker points out. We have to call a cat a cat: the European Union needs us, it needs us to believe in it. This confidence will therefore always be reflected in our budgetary, political and sentimental investment. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] My friends, dares, dares and above all dares because where there is a will, there is a way! We will encounter difficulties, obstacles, it would be demagogic to pretend otherwise. We will have to fight because we are optimists, and optimists see opportunities in difficulties. We are Europeans and determined to support Europe through our participation in its budget. Today, being European means being revolutionary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u145	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u146	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, this budgetary discussion, the first of the 15th Parliament, allows us to deal in a concrete way with France's place in the European Union. It is also an opportunity for each political family to recall its vision of European integration through the budgetary prism. Article 27 of the first part of the finance bill, which we are debating this afternoon, sets the amount of the French contribution to the budget of the European Union. I will not go back to the figures, already widely cited, which make our country the second net contributor, with a return, if I may say so, which does not prevent a negative balance of 6 billion. This famous amount has become, in a way, an easy target for all those who, having failed to have the European flag removed from the Chamber, are now seeking, through tirades or postures, to question the French contribution to the Union's budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u147	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u148	It's not a posture, it's a conviction!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u149	... and the very principle of financial solidarity that it expresses. We, the Republicans, wish to continue to allow the European Union to be the world's leading economic power; We wish to continue to give it the means to collectively face the new challenges of our century and to ensure the power it must assume in the world. We, the Republicans, endorse some of the priorities of the European budget for 2018 as presented to us, including the common European response to the migration challenge. However, I would have the opportunity to develop some of the reservations that we want to make. This budget contribution is the last of the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2019. Moreover, as we know, the preparatory work for the next multiannual financial framework, which has already begun, will obviously be marked by the planned departure of the United Kingdom. At this stage, although it may seem like a cream pie, I would like to remind the National Assembly that the Republicans feel that the involvement of national parliaments in European processes, particularly in the budgetary process, is a strong necessity. We are debating once in the House, in the context of the budgetary debate, the amount of the French contribution. This discussion is preceded by a few debates in several committees – often lively indeed, we have seen it this year. But we are talking very little with the Government, throughout the year, about the implementation of the Union's budget – we have little opportunity to do so – and, above all, we are not discussing very much in a truly European way, in perspective, with other representatives of national parliaments. However, the Lisbon Treaty recognises an important role for the latter to participate in the proper functioning of the Union. Of course, the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets makes a few attempts, by inviting representatives of the Finance Committees of the national parliaments to discuss in a European way the Union's main budgetary guidelines and, consequently, the main priorities, but it must be noted that the representatives of the French Parliament are not always the most diligent, the most present, and that we therefore have room for progress. The members of the Committee on European Affairs whom we are, of course, receive the draft legislative acts – directives and regulations – as well as numerous documents from the European institutions, but on budgetary matters, on the actual implementation of the European budget and on the operations carried out in France, we have a terrible lack of opportunities and regular meetings to exchange information. Our colleague Michel Herbillon has proposed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that more regular meetings be organised. It seems to me that this should be achieved. Similarly, we French parliamentarians must be more present in the interparliamentary conference on economic and financial governance established under the TSCG, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance. We had the opportunity to talk about this in a debate on the future of the Union some 15 days ago; So I'm not going back. I really think that better association, better upstream involvement, i.e. a stronger investment on our part in European decision-making processes, particularly budgetary ones, is a key to increasing parliamentary control and establishing the democratic legitimacy of the Union. We must all be convinced of that. Other speakers have said that the European moment we are going through is in many ways historic, full of dangers but also opportunities. We, the Republicans, wish to take our full part in this great debate called for by the challenges and threats to us and to Europe. We wish to be a force of proposal, a force of contribution in the major restructuring of the European Union. We believe that no debate should be avoided and that there should be no taboos. In particular, we need to have a debate on the respective competences of the European Union and the Member States, on the governance and the role and powers of the European Commission, the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament and the national parliaments. We have already had the opportunity to say so, but I repeat this in the context of this budgetary debate: we want to take our full part in this work. We also believe that the re-founding of Europe must be accompanied by a fundamental reflection on the next multiannual financial framework and the very architecture of the European budget, which, in many respects, seems to us to be slightly obsolete, and therefore sometimes ineffective and inequitable. Small arrangements between friends, bankal compromises, ongoing negotiations on discounts granted to each other: all this does not seem to us to ensure readability, transparency, justice and fairness. There was also a debate, particularly within the high-level group chaired by Mario Monti, on the desirability of creating new own resources to finance the European Union budget. The report which has been submitted offers interesting leads on this issue, and we, the Republicans, will wish to make our contribution to this debate. In this respect, I think of the issue of the taxation of digital giants, an initiative of France which is flourishing and which we had the opportunity to discuss, in this House, a few nights ago, during the examination of the first part of the finance bill, in particular with regard to an amendment by President Woerth. Similarly, enormous progress has to be made in the fight against VAT fraud and the fight against counterfeiting, as well as in respect of the payment of customs duties, which must provide additional resources. As the founding country of the European Union, as the third – and probably soon the second – net contributor, and because we are a power that ensures outside the European continent the security of our common strategic interests, we must also affirm some of our priorities. In this respect, the Republicans wish to reaffirm their commitment to the common agricultural policy and to high quality and even excellent agricultural production. This seems to us to be part of the European Union's ADN, and we would also like to have the opportunity to make proposals for a successful common agricultural policy that will allow our agricultural producers to continue to live on our soil. Finally, I would like to say that many Members of my political group have fairly strong reservations, if not reservations, not with regard to the whole of Article 27, but with regard to our contribution, of the order of EUR 300 million, to the facility for refugees in Turkey; This contribution is part of a global agreement of €3 billion for the years 2016 to 2019, through which we finance part of Turkey's work in hosting and maintaining refugees on its territory. Pre-accession appropriations are also entered, year after year, multi-annual financial framework after multi-annual financial framework, for a country of which we are increasingly numerous, both in national parliaments and in public opinion, to consider that it is not intended to integrate the European Union. We are very reluctant to act as if nothing were happening and to continue to allocate pre-accession appropriations to this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u150	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u151	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Despite these reservations and comments, we will vote on Article 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u152	Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u153	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the European levy, which is set out in Article 27 of the draft finance law, has, once it is not customary, a particular tone, which relates to the unprecedented context in which it intervenes. The European framework is, in fact, shaken – I do not need to mention it at length here – due in particular to the decision of the British people to leave the European Union. The coming year will also see the start of negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework of the Union. It is up to us today to undertake a profound reform of our institution and, in this case, of its budgetary framework. I agree with the rapporteur, Maurice Leroy, who urges the national representative to take this opportunity to rethink the functioning of the European Union and to allow the idea that it was born to continue to live in a sustainable, harmonious and efficient way. What the European Union suffers most is the incoherence of the states, which have demands for it that are not in common measure with the means by which they equip it. We find the same inconsistency in the very practice of preparing the European budget: at the very moment when Parliament is discussing the revenue and expenditure of the nation's budget, which will understand that it is the national parliaments that decide the revenue of an institution whose expenditure they do not control, since it is the European Parliament that will vote them? The consequence is simple: national parliaments tend to estimate participation in the European budget as a simple burden, whereas it is a question of financing joint projects. Who will also understand that the Multiannual Financial Framework commits the European Parliament for seven years, despite political alternations? Who can also attest to the democratic nature of this system, when the scale of common challenges forces our national and European institutions to devise new funding mechanisms outside the budget, and therefore outside democratic control, to circumvent the ceilings imposed? It is indeed a fundamental principle of any democracy – it was raised by Jean Arthuis, whose comments are reflected in the report – to be able to hold to account the use of public money. Now no one is able to say precisely how the European levy is used. Inconsistency also with regard to expectations and requests for this institution! What is the logic of asking Europe to take charge of and deal with the migrant crisis by subsidising the Turkish government, or to have it carry research policy? All this by refusing every year to increase our participation, which obliges the European Union to seek funding everywhere from different bodies, without this money being really darted, monitored, and its use is finally understandable! This makes things unreadable, untransparent and undemocratic. During our committee work, we heard opinions that we disagree with. This was the case, for example, when it was surprised, to be offended, that France would increase its contribution to the European budget by EUR 2.3 billion to more than EUR 20 billion. This was also the case when the same people pointed out that France, which is in a structural deficit, would better use these funds to reduce its deficit. This was again the case when some people denounced the use of the European budget, which would play a role in competing against our interests. I will not go into the detail that leads to this amount of EUR 20 billion. But who can believe that a sampling at this height can profoundly change our internal situation? The reasoning, which only takes into account the impact of the net contribution on the balance of our budget, falls if we look at the situation of some of our big neighbours, including Germany, the largest net contributor, and even the United Kingdom – whose exit from the European Union will make the situation much less comfortable. It is not possible to reason in this way about the European Union, as this whole has not been thought of in these terms. It is an area of sharing and solidarity, the same solidarity which now allows the most disadvantaged territories to benefit, in all countries, from aid coming directly from the European budget. Many of our neighbours, but also many of us, elected locals, know what we owe to Europe in terms of territorial development. The report makes it clear that the positive externalities of the European Union are difficult to measure, that these spillovers should take into account "non-directly quantifiable economic gains [...], such as the gains from being part of a single market". This solidarity is an expression of the fraternal feeling that unites the peoples of Europe. She spoke during the crisis we had since 2008. She spoke in Greece, Spain, Portugal, with our friends from the former Eastern Europe. It is expressed in France to make our debt and deficit sustainable, with extremely low borrowing rates. It is expressed in the common agricultural policy, in research programmes which benefit all and which we would not have the means to finance on our own. To address the shortcomings of this system must not, however, lead us to compromise what has so far been a set of common values. It is precisely the role of the ardent proponents of European integration to be the most demanding on the reality of its functioning. How can we compensate for the loss of the United Kingdom from our union? How can we compensate for the decline in the EU's own resources, in particular the reduction in customs duties as a result of the trade agreements signed? How can we make Europe's budget more dynamic? Can we envisage the creation of a tax whose revenue would be collected directly by the Community institutions? To these questions, we answer that it is time to give the construction of Europe a new impetus. We need to consider closer coordination among those States that want to do so, while at the same time ensuring the links that unite us with those that do not want to do so. In any case, we need to move quickly on the idea of a tax specific to the European Union, without, of course, increasing the overall tax burden on the European citizen. The President of the Republic has recently made proposals in this direction, to which we are in favour, such as a digital tax, a tax on financial transactions and an environmental tax – comparable to the famous European carbon tax that had been envisaged for some time. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we must put the way in which we build the European Union's budget down, ensure its transparency, its evaluation and highlight the policies pursued through European collaboration. We agree with that. But we also say that this budget is still very inadequate today, far below what is needed to pursue an ambitious policy. To increase this budget is not to give up our sovereignty; it is to create a larger space within which to exercise it. This new opportunity, which is the result of the "Europe moment", which we were talking about here a few days ago, our colleague Jean-Louis Bourlanges, must be seized in order to make progress on European issues and to meet the challenges of tomorrow's Europe. This new ambition can lead to citizens' acceptance if democratic values are the inspiration and if it is characterized by more readability, transparency and coherence, hence efficiency and strength. It is this European power that must lie at the heart of the European project, because it will both strengthen the democratic foundations of the European Union, and therefore the feeling of belonging to a community of destiny, and respond appropriately to the economic, social, cultural, environmental and international challenges that warrant a common, harmonious and appropriate approach. [[Applause on several benches of MODEM and REM groups]] This citizen ambition will give full meaning to the message delivered by Jean Monnet in 1952: "We do not co-operate with states, we unite men. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of Article 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u154	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u155	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the special rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, first of all, for this debate, which has covered both budgetary and technical aspects and political issues. These are political choices expressed in the European budget, financed by Member States' contributions and own resources. Of course, it will not be possible for me to respond to all your statements, but here are some points I would like to stress. First of all, I want to go back to criticisms of the European budget, which, according to some, would be misdirected, and which would be unfair because France would make too much contribution to it. In my opening speech, I referred to the logic of expenditure, which is very real but which, by its very nature, reflects a political choice. I will mention here only one aspect, which you mentioned, Mr Naegelen and Mrs Le Grip: expenditure in favour of Turkey. Yes, Turkey is receiving substantial funding to get to the level of the European Union, but I would like to make an important point: these funds, in view of the situation that has prevailed on the ground since the July 2016 coup attempt, have already been reoriented to Turkish civil society for several months. The Commission is due to submit in mid-November a revised action plan for 2017 and its action plan for 2018; It is likely that we will then discuss a reduction in the funds available for Turkey. Having said that, we must honour the commitments made in the joint declaration of 18 March 2016, which has made it possible to dramatically reduce migratory movements by road to the eastern Mediterranean. Among these commitments, however, is a European Union facility for Turkey, amounting to EUR 3 billion at this stage, which allows Mr Joncour to finance NGOs assisting Syrian refugees on Turkish territory. You see that maintaining these funds is obviously in our well-understood interest; This includes respect for the word given, the fight against illegal immigration, support for Syrians chased by Daesh or the regime, and the fight against terrorism. I have heard your concern, Mr Leroy, about the decline in appropriations for migratory flows. This decline is not significant, as it does not take into account the aid to Turkey I have just mentioned, nor does it take into account the emergency trust fund abounded by the European budget and supplemented by the Member States. Under this fund, €1.9 billion was approved for 47 projects out of a total of €2.9 billion. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] As to the unbalanced nature of the French contribution, I would first of all reply that the Government is obviously very attentive to the management of public money and does not make any blank cheques to anyone. But let us be clear: to deplore the principle of a net negative balance for the French contribution is deplorable, Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u156	Stay polite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u157	What an arrogance! But who do you think you are?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u158	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the MODEM group]] Yes, France is a net contributor, like all our major partners, moreover; Yes, as enlargements progressed, the return rates of the founding States deteriorated. But this net balance makes sense: it is first and foremost an expression of European solidarity with countries in economic catching-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u159	It is you who despair our partners with your demands on the structural deficit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u160	The solidarity, you know, this beautiful word, this principle on which the whole European project is based! But it is also the price to be paid for the existence of a large single market of 500 million Europeans. And companies in the strongest economies, particularly French companies, are the first to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u161	Especially Alstom!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u162	As for the comparison between this budget and that of 1982, it makes no sense: there were only ten Member States in Europe; In fact, there was no European Union, but the European Communities, whose competences were much less developed. Clearly, the two budgets do not cover the same scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u163	How smart she is! It's troubling, amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u164	Yes, our contribution to the European Union budget increases in 2018. But, as I mentioned in my introductory statement, it is a mechanical movement, due to the cycle of projects, particularly with regard to the use of the Structural Funds, an area in which our rate of return is traditionally low.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u165	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u166	On the other hand, the reasoning based solely on the return rate or on the net balance is very short because economies of scale are obvious. More broadly, everyone remembers the expression "I want my money back", which some people are resuming today,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u167	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u168	...stamped by Mrs Thatcher from the Dublin Summit in 1979 at the Fontainebleau Summit in 1984. We can see where this logic has led the United Kingdom, and Mrs May now measures day after day all the costs that will be incurred for her country to leave the European Union. Is that really what we want for France? Not this government, anyway! Indeed, several of you, including Mrs Thillaye, rightly insisted on the prospect of the UK's exit from the European Union. First of all, the question does not arise for the 2018 budget, Mrs Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u169	I know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u170	As far as the following budgets are concerned, everything will depend on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, in particular with regard to the financial regulation to be paid by London under the commitments entered into as a member of the European Union. While the United Kingdom is honouring all its commitments for 2019 and 2020 under the Multiannual Financial Framework, as called for by the Twenty-seven and as Mrs May's speech in Florence suggests,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u171	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u172	... the consequences on the European budget for these two years will be circumscribed. However, this implies that we are making rapid progress on the three key issues of the first phase of the Brexit negotiations: in addition to the Financial Regulation, the situation of European citizens and border management. On the other hand, of course, in case of hard Brexit, if the UK abruptly stopped any contribution, the budgetary impact would be major as early as 2019, since, as you know, the UK net contribution is on average around 10 billion euros. However, this scenario would be particularly costly not only for the Union but, even more so, for the United Kingdom. In both London and Brussels, we must ensure that reason prevails. More broadly, there is no doubt that the UK's departure will have a very significant impact on the next multi-annual financial framework, as the country is a major net contributor. I would like to stress that the announced departure of the United Kingdom is both a very strong constraint, as I said, and, as many of you have pointed out, an opportunity to rethink the European budget according to our political priorities. It's true of spending as well as revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u173	What a chain of sponcifs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u174	As far as expenditure is concerned, we will no longer be able to simply continue as before unless we accept that the situation is deteriorating in all sectors. The solution is to flatten the European budget on the basis of real political priorities and our ambition for Europe. The re-foundation of Europe is under way. The President of the Republic reiterated his determination in this regard at the European Council, and he is heard by his partners. We are starting to debate and we will quickly get to the heart of the matter. With regard to revenue, the system of financing the European budget had to be simpler, more transparent, more equitable, especially if all rebates were to be abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u175	All sponcifs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u176	Mr. Mélenchon, I let you talk earlier without interrupting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u177	[[Smile]] I'm the one who talked! Don't be obsessed with Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u178	Mr Corbière, please let me speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u179	[[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] Then avoid the banalities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u180	Please let the minister speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u181	You don't have a monopoly on insult, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u182	I don't feel like I insulted you, Mr. Corbière. You, on the other hand, are very unpleasant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u183	It's not you who have to lead the debates, it's the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u184	Please, Mr. Corbière, Mr. Mélenchon, let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u185	These mechanisms, which are very critical of the principle, are unfair since some net contributors, such as France, do not benefit from them, lose their historical raison d'être with the departure of the United Kingdom; Of course, I agree with you on this point, Mr Paluszkiewicz, Mrs de Sarnez. The exit from the United Kingdom is a historic opportunity to put the system of financing the European budget to a standstill. France welcomed the final report of the High Level Group on Own Resources, chaired by Mario Monti, and looked forward to the Commission's forthcoming examination of the possibilities for new own resources, as Mr Mendes and Mr Joncour had pointed out. In passing, I would like to recall the point of view presented by the President of the Republic in the Sorbonne amphitheatre on 26 September: when the time comes, the budget of the euro area will have to be financed by new taxes...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u186	We have to stop with taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u187	... in the digital and environmental field, or, in the long run, through the allocation of part of corporate tax revenue, once it is harmonized, Mr. Leroy. We do not underestimate the sensitivity of these issues for some of our partners, including our German friends; However, you will recognise with me that the construction of Europe, since 1957, has not progressed steadily and continuously, but rather through crises that have enabled successive advances. Who could have imagined the banking union before the financial crisis? Today it is not possible for me to go into more detail on these issues related to the re-founding of Europe and the future multi-annual financial framework. The Sorbonne speech was delivered less than a month ago; It began to be discussed at the European Council on 19 and 20 October. We hope for first progress by the summer of 2018. On the financial framework, the Commission will not submit proposals until the beginning of next year and the College has yet to arbitrate on fundamental issues, including the duration, to which several of you – Mr Leroy, Mr Paluszkiewicz, Mrs de Sarnez, Mrs Thillaye – have referred. I assure, however, that the expenditure of the future – digital or artificial intelligence, cited by Mrs.Thillaye – will find their right place. Of course, I am very much in favour, Mrs de Sarnez, Mrs Le Grip, of us taking a thorough look at the prospects for the next multiannual financial framework with national representation. Before concluding, I would like to come back to a subject raised by several speakers, including Mrs Thillaye and Mr Holroyd: Defence Europe. A renewed Europe of defence is becoming a political reality; I saw this myself at the meeting of the June European Council as the one held in Brussels last week. From a budgetary point of view, we are only at the very beginning; It is in the next financial framework that the effort will be made. However, I will mention two specific elements planned by 2020. Firstly, the preparatory action on defence research, which finances, in the field of defence, €90 million between 2017 and 2019, including €40 million in 2018, for research projects that could not be financed under the European Horizon 2020 research programme. This action prefigures the research component of the European Defence Fund, which we hope will be launched in early 2018. As you know, the European Defence Fund will also include a component for capacity development. The Commission has proposed a new programme to contribute to the financing of capabilities: the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence, on which we hope to be able to move soon. It is very important that first projects can be funded as early as 2019. I am pleased that the European Council of 19 and 20 October has taken this goal back on its own. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thank you once again, ladies and gentlemen, for this debate and you, Madam President, for giving me the floor again. I only regret that I did not have the time to go into all the subjects discussed, which are numerous, but of course I remain at the disposal of the national representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u188	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u189	This point of order is based on Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Having listened carefully to the minister, I noticed that she had not responded to each of the groups – I am not talking about the people, but about the groups. And, as a matter of fact, it was to the left-wing groups that she did not answer. It is a matter of decency: we spoke for ten minutes each in the gallery and made proposals; You may not share our analysis, minister, but you could at least argue to explain why. For this is the democratic debate: arguments to which counter-arguments answer. The way you completely ignored us has something indecent, I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u191	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 27. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u192	Let us start with the essentials: live the European culture! Live the European civilization! Before talking about money, budget or shop, it must be said and said again: our country, our France will be big only in a big and strong Europe. Don't dislike Mr Darmanin – who, on Saturday in the Chamber, as I spoke about the tax advantages reserved for the online press, suggested that I must be anti-European – I love Europe, I love our European traditions, our European roots, and I want to work to build a living and carnal Europe. Of course, we must imagine a Europe that is less cold, less technocratic, less bureaucratic, less taunting, less arrogant too. Of course, Europe's construction has its share of failures and shortcomings. But let us stop making it the scapegoat of our own failures and take our responsibilities! In recent years, our contribution to the European budget has been steadily increasing. In these difficult times for our nation's accounts, it does not seem reasonable to me to increase the bill presented to us by Brussels. Let us be extremely vigilant about the use of European funds! Above all, let us demand that Europe apply the same rigour as we ask our own institutions! Europe deserves better than these apothecary accounts. It is an exception; We copy it, we admire it, we envy it. Then let's help her grow up! When Europe rhymes with peace, when European youth study in Florence or dream on the banks of the Danube, I am European. When the children of Manchester are massacred, when women are raped in Cologne, my heart is broken and I am European. There is no choice between France and Europe, provided that it is a true Europe and not a German Europe;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u193	Sag warum!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u194	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] ...because if Europe is a geography, it is also our horizon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u195	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u196	We were recently debating the rules of procedure of our assembly. Some contemptuous remarks were then made by non-attached Members who sought more opportunities to express themselves. I would point out that the Conference of Presidents managed to mislead its administration, which had opened a time for us before retracting. It is absolutely unbearable that partisan punching is the only opportunity for a territory to express itself on the subject. I had tabled an amendment on this issue. It would have been courteous of the Conference of Presidents to take a little into account the agitation of independent Members. It is not for working groups to settle the matter, but for the people's deputies in their work. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] I am going to ask the minister a very simple question: do you consider it democratic for the National Assembly to vote against the national budget by prohibiting a part of the nation from speaking otherwise than on the article? More generally, considering the growing distrust of the French towards the European institutions, would this debate not deserve a text in its own right, in order to decide with the image of our assembly as a cash register of a supranational punction?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u197	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u198	I am surprised to hear our unsubstantiated colleagues become great Thatcherians, asking for the return of their money. This is a great first in this House, which it is important to stress. This proves that the populists are gathering around a fairly strong anti-European idea that we can only denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u200	We've heard a lot, a lot of numbers. Of course, we are among the net contributors – we are in third place – with a delta of about €6 billion, but I think we need to go beyond these simple figures and see the reality of things. If we want a common market, we need about standardised levels in the European Union. It is this EUR 6 billion delta that will enable our eastern European neighbours tomorrow to make up for what has been achieved in recent years by our western European neighbours, such as Spain, Portugal and Ireland, and thus make some progress towards harmonisation. This European equalization, however, we live in France, between rich territories and others that are far less so, and we do not complain about it. The levy is up sharply by EUR 1.5 billion, but this increase can be offset. For example, France could make a little more use of European agencies, such as FRONTEX: FRONTEX flights could be used to expel illegal migrants, instead of using the lines of credit of the Ministry of the Interior. The European Union's contribution to France can also bring real momentum to the territories. I am thinking of mine: in Nord-Pas-de-Calais, the Seine-Nord Europe and Calais Port 2015 canal are major infrastructure projects that are financed by the European Union and could not have been financed by the State alone. Beyond the CAP, there are also more local projects, such as Nature in town. Finally, I wonder about the opening of the Balkan road. Our populists tell us that all negotiations with Turkey must be stopped. Yes, Turkey must be prevented from joining the European Union because it is not part of Europe. On the other hand, denouncing the negotiations with Turkey will have a very simple effect: the reopening of the Balkan road, through which 900000 migrants passed before the agreement with Turkey, and through which less than 30,000 passed in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u201	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u202	Thank you, Mr. Dumont.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u203	What I believe is that populists want more migrants in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u205	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u206	In 2018, France's contribution to the European Union will be €20.2 billion, an increase of €2.3 billion over 2017. The budget of the European Union is illegible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u207	Unreadable for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u208	It is particularly costly and scandalous, while France's public deficit reaches almost 97% of GDP. France's contribution to the European Union budget has increased fivefold since 1982, with no real positive impact on employment. The European Union today is ever more austerity for the people. With the state of our agriculture and industries, and with this growing massive immigration, we can see that the European Union is truly disastrous for our country. The European Union is the area in the world where there is the least growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u209	And the most riches!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u210	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] And I am not talking about the retreat of democracy, with those unelected technocrats who govern us. To answer some of my colleagues, we are not against Europe, which is a continent; We are against the European Union, which serves our interests. We wish another Europe: a Europe of free, sovereign, prosperous and proud peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u211	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u212	Madam Minister, 20.2 billion euros for what? If I believe some colleagues – many of whom have deserted the Chamber at the moment – we are naive people who spend without counting for love for the European Commission and the Brussels bureaucracy. According to them, a solidarity and responsible approach would be to have a zero balance. Ladies and gentlemen of France, you have said that you wish to apply the Thatcher doctrine. I'm a little surprised by this approach. First of all, it is to forget that France is already, with 12 billion euros, the second largest beneficiary behind Poland and before Spain. In fact, many countries are losing our negotiating capacity. Your approach assumes that competition and the internal market are sufficient. It assumes that we do not need a policy of solidarity and rebalancing. Where is the European project, ladies and gentlemen? Where are our values? However, I am sure that we share some of them. You recently denounced Europe's inertia in the face of the Greek crisis and called for more aid to save this country from an absolute recession. We shared that concern. Today, Greece's net positive balance exceeds EUR 4 billion. If you want to set all the balances to zero, how will you finance the effort in favour of Greece? You also regularly defend a European ambition to combat climate change. You call for the development of Africa, the Sahel, ravaged by poverty, which produces conflict and radicalisation. If all States have a zero balance, how will you finance Africa's official development assistance?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u214	Colleagues, with all due respect, think about these issues. The simple ideas, which see only the cost of Europe and not its benefits, have been, as the minister said, a majority time in the United Kingdom. A year later, nothing of what had been announced happened: not only the debt that hangs above their heads is 80 billion euros, but still 10,000 medical personnel fled the NHS system – the National Health Service – because the funding did not come.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u215	Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u216	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the MODEM group]] For all these reasons, I call on you to vote on Article 27, by being very demanding with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u217	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u218	First, it was necessary to discuss this budget, which is important, since it is the fourth in the country. As everyone has shown, it is on the increase, and this reflects the poor use of appropriations in Europe, which is still a real problem, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs. This must have been a good thing for previous governments, which were able to save money, since the revenue levy was generally lower than forecast. It appears in the envelope, Mrs. Rabault, which at some point leads to the use of adjustment variables over other appropriations and can therefore ask questions. The debate is therefore not solely accounting, since there are very direct consequences for the use of other appropriations. On the other hand, it is true that the European budget and, more broadly, the financing of the European institutions have a share of elusibility. I have also seen its extreme rigidity: it is very difficult to move the appropriations – former Members of the European Parliament present here will be able to confirm or reverse my feeling. This is probably due to the very large number of countries participating. More flexibility is needed in order to adapt to current events, specific policies or crises, which is not the case today. For the French parliament, it is a very good time – there are others, which you also know how to use well – to ask yourself the question of the evolution of European institutions and policies. The debate was put and everyone responded, both to the right and to the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u219	And even in the center!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u220	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If we have to change the timetable, as proposed by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, let us amend it so that Parliament can be better informed and better involved in decision-making!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u222	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u223	I listened to some of my colleagues, such as Mr Maire or Mr Dumont, or the minister, who simply responded to our arguments that our speech was "desolating." I'll be you, I'll pay a little attention. The contempt I am hearing here, the distinctions between nationalists and those who are not, suggesting that any criticism of the European Union is good for gemonies, is exactly what we heard for months before the European Constitutional Treaty. We have been accused of all the evils, you have been contemptuous – I am speaking to you because you take back the same arguments. However, in this referendum, which saw 70% of the French vote – a record under the Fifth Republic – 55% said they no longer want Europe's current development. In fact, no one dares to hold a referendum again on treaties that are fundamental, for fear, most certainly, of being once again a minority. There have been many European models in history. Europe is a means; It can't be an objective. It is only valid if it promotes social, ecological and democratic progress. But the opposite is happening today. Mr Mayor, you were talking about development aid for African countries; But do you not know that Europe is entering into free trade agreements that will ruin all the economies of African countries, especially the West of the continent? You were talking about Greece; But do you not know that Europe has allowed banks to speculate on Greek sovereign debt? A little realism! Stop bragging about something people no longer believe, because they look at reality! Instead of a Europe of cooperation, we have a Europe that has abandoned its sovereignty to finance. That's the reality! Don't miss it, that's what people live every day. On the question of the structural balance, I think you would be more credible if you did not constantly criticise our country on the pretext that we would not respect our structural balances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u224	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u225	I'll finish with that, Madam President. As if the only criterion should be the budget deficit and not the state of health, employment or national heritage. You are doing a very bad service to any idea of European construction, continuing to suggest that the current Europe of finance would be the only possibility, the only way out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u226	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel. We understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u227	What do you mean? I've been hearing the same speeches for a while. Your point is too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u228	I left you a few more seconds, as I had done for speakers from other groups. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u229	My remarks will go in the same direction as those of Eric Coquerel. I turn to the Government and our colleagues: you are not aware of the point that this Europe – I am going to be a bit trivial – is going to blow us in the face; You do not understand how much there is a break between the peoples of Europe and Europe's policy today, a policy that only serves large-scale finance. That's the reality! This is not a rejection of Europe as such, it is not an opposition to Europe. If, twenty or thirty years ago, I had reservations about the European Union, I am now convinced of its necessity. But I don't understand that we don't upset this catastrophic, suicidal orientation. I'm saying, one day or the other, it'll blow up and we'll suffer all the consequences! I will make a second remark. Earlier, in his speech, my colleague Lecoq referred to a "tax COP". On 2 February 2017, at the initiative of the GDR Group, in this House, we voted on a motion for a resolution to entrust Europe with the task of organising a conference of the parties on finance, on the same model as those meeting on climate. Indeed, finance is not just a French or even a European issue, but a global issue. We see it with tax evasion: if we don't take the problem with the body at the level of the planet, as we did for the climate, we won't achieve any result. Today, the figures show huge losses: for France alone, the amount of tax evasion is estimated at around 80 billion euros per year; At European level, 1000 billion a year goes to tax havens, equivalent to six times the annual budget of the European Union. We have to deal with this problem! You did not reply to that from my colleague Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u230	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u231	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u232	I have before me three amendments, Nos 349, 163 and 243, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Louis Aliot has the floor to support Amendment No. 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u233	I would first like to make a few remarks. I have heard the word 'deplorable' before, but all those who defend the European Union's budget have only criticism in their mouths. I heard Mr Leroy's warning: he criticized Europe, pointing out that it was not working. I have dozens of quotes from Mr. Bayrou, Mr. Bourlanges... Even President Macron wants to reshape Europe; So it has melted, if I may say so, in its jobs, in its growth, in its industry! Instead of attacking the Eurosceptics and the sovereignists who sit in this assembly, you should be concerned about the state of France and Europe! Why this amendment? Because I think that the additional 2.3 billion you are going to spend on Europe's budget and that we are going to leave we do not know where, in the European fumes, would have been better used in France's budget, at the service of our farmers, our armies and our security! It is not an increase in this budget that we need, but a reduction! That is what would give France the means of its renaissance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u235	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u236	With Article 27, the Government wants to raise €20.2 billion from French taxpayers as part of our contribution to the European Union budget. In 2015, France paid it 19 billion euros and only benefited from a return of 14.5 billion euros: it therefore financed the European Union, with a loss of 4.5 billion euros. Can we consider, in a difficult economic context for each Frenchman, that it is legitimate to increase our contribution to the European Union's budget further? It is all the more questionable that this amount includes, for example, €68 million promised to Turkey for Syrian emigrants – aid granted under the Berlin Protocol. This amount is paid without any possibility of control over its use, with President Erdogan's regime showing increasing authoritarianism every day. The French are tired of giving without knowing exactly why and for whom. Since they are being asked to make ever more savings, they may be entitled to demand so much from Brussels. Why not ask the European institutions for the same operating savings as those imposed on the French communes? I'm not sure that all French people are fans of Brussels today! The European Union and Mr Macron should also question the growing wave of Euroscepticism: in 2016, only 38% of the French had a positive opinion on the European Union. The time has come to think of a different Europe: more effective, more pragmatic, less ideological!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u238	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u239	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] My non-attached colleagues have tabled relevant amendments to criticise this budget from various angles. For my part, I wanted to pay particular attention to the geopolitical scandal of the funds granted to Turkey. Under our agreements with the European Commission, we are giving EUR 68 million to a country that has brillianced with its instrumentalisation of refugees, insulted all our European partners and interfered with our national policy. Turkey is a great country but it has made a huge mistake in supporting Islamist rebels in Syria, going as far as supporting attacks on neutral villages. Syrian refugees also go through territories where internal Turkish conflict between Kurds and the army. We are therefore sending €68 million, without control capacity, to a state that is tightening the crackdown on journalists and civil society. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to sign a cheque for EUR 68 million in Paris or Brussels to go to the refugees in Turkey.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u240	The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u241	We have just had a rich debate, which refers to the very roots of European consciousness and citizenship. These three amendments relating to the draft budget of the European Union for 2018 propose to reduce France's participation. I now announce that I am against it, for one simple reason: we have made several commitments for the period up to 2020 – the year in which Brexit will require a rethinking of our policies – and it is necessary to assume them. More generally, I hear a lot of Members talking about France about equalisation in favour of territories poorer than others, or facing difficulties. In the end, it is this logic that you criticize. In fact, refusing to give more than we receive in certain areas is an attempt to break the equalization policy aimed at improving the territorial economy, and I believe that is a serious mistake. As for the debate on Turkey, it is not on the agenda; I will therefore not come back to this issue. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the MODEM group]] As a citizen of Europe who, for various and varied reasons, has not always had a foothold in the same country – because the construction of Europe was based on a number of them – let me say to you that we must also, above all and beyond budgetary matters, be proud to be a European citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u243	Unsurprisingly, the Government will be against all of these amendments, unless they are withdrawn. As has already been pointed out, we must respect our international commitments, which none of these amendments would allow. As for Turkey, which I mentioned earlier in the debate on the European levy, our support for the management of refugees in that country goes to project-holders, without going through the Turkish authorities; I thought it was useful and important to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u244	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u245	I would like to make two or three comments on these proposals to reduce our participation in the European budget, because we need to understand what is being asked to be reduced today. Mr Chassaigne referred to the financialization of Europe. But where do the regulations that regulate the financial sector very strictly come from today? Europe! As a member of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Chassaigne is well aware that it is precisely the European directives MIFID II and CRD IV – relating respectively to markets in financial instruments and to regulatory own funds – which are incorporated into French law, which protect our fellow citizens from the excesses of finance against which he is insurgent. Secondly, these reductions in spending would also affect our security. This year, our contribution to the budget in this area is 817 million higher than in the multiannual framework. This is FRONTEX, which protects our borders. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Let us be very clear: these budget cuts, repeatedly requested by various and varied oppositions, would reach our citizens deeply, both in terms of financial abuse and in terms of daily security!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u247	On Article 27, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u248	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u249	Madam President, since we still have time to proceed to the public vote on rule 27, I should like to take the floor for a point of order. I would just like to point out, so that we can understand each other, that, it seems to me, ministers do not have to take Members personally, that it is not in the practice of a parliamentary assembly. This leads me to another reflection. I said earlier that we all had a problem to deal with. I fully accept that our point of view is only ours. Even if we disagree, we can understand each other, we are not obliged to despise each other. Some words continually repeated are too much. You can't accuse us of standing in an artificial posture. We have convictions, which may be reprehensible to you, but these are our convictions, and we are not pretending. So you cannot say, Madam Minister, that our view is "desolating." We do not point the finger at the Government, we do not want to weaken France's policy. Did you hear me say a word to criticise what happened at the European Council, with Emmanuel Macron? When other countries do not want to hear what France says, it is a challenge for all of us. What matters to me in this regard is not that the President of the Republic is called Macron, Holland or Sarkozy, but that he presides over my country. How are we going to get out of the problems we're encountering? This is the subject of discussion that I proposed. So I didn't deserve to be treated like that. On the other hand, Madam Minister, when you referred to the comparison with the situation in 1982, you probably wanted to attack our colleague who had spoken about it earlier. I repeat: it is not acceptable to say that our view is "desolating". Don't say that our remarks are not good; Say you don't agree with us, that's all! That is how we can make progress. It may happen – to me as to my comrades – that my words go too far. But let us be aware of it! One cannot really discuss, really debate, if one considers that the part that is not from your point of view only says nonsense and ineptitudes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u250	That's what you do all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u251	That doesn't make any sense! He must be given the right to disagree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u252	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u253	For my part, in any case, I do not accuse you of being inept; On the contrary, I think your thought is very consistent and disciplined. That's all I wanted to tell you, without teaching anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u254	[[Smile]] She's not your type!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u255	Minister, you have exceeded your role.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u256	I put rule 27 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u257	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u258	[[Exclaims]] The meeting was suspended for thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u259	It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u260	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u261	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u262	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] My point of order is based on Rule 58, paragraph 1, concerning the conduct of the sitting. We have just adopted Article 27 laying down the amount of the European levy. Then the minister present at the bench of the Government asked us for a suspension of the meeting, which was already surprising. It could have been understood for a period of ten minutes, the time that one of her colleagues was replacing her, but she asked for half an hour, and the meeting was finally suspended for an hour and five. That is not to respect Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Whatever the technical difficulties the Government had encountered, it was not Parliament's fault. There is a minimum of respect for parliamentarians. The method, Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, is that when we are called to the bench, it is according to the order of the debates set by the Conference of Presidents, and the least we can do is to respect it. From a method point of view, what is happening is really not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u263	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I take note, Mrs Dalloz, of this point of order. Although, in this case, it has lasted a little longer than expected, I would remind you that it is customary to suspend the sitting in such debates before proceeding to the rule of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u264	You're a government lawyer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u265	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 28. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u266	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we conclude with clause 28 the discussions on the first part of the 2018 Finance Bill. This is the first budget of the new majority, and the new world is ultimately unglorious. While this budget is more sincere than in previous years, it is still modest and, above all, deeply unjust. It is unfair because of the increase in diesel, which will weigh on many French, especially rural ones. It is unfair because of the increase in the CSG, which will weigh on many French people, especially pensioners. It is unfair with small savers or with candidates for home ownership in forgotten territories. It is unfair because of the abolition for some of the housing tax, which will affect the autonomy of many French communes, especially the small ones. These unjust efforts of the middle classes will result in many losers. This law of finance is sacrificing them. Is that for the right cause? Even not since these injustices will not make it possible to improve the budget of the French house, on the contrary: structural adjustment measures are meagre. Article 28 deals with the general balance of the budget. At the risk of disenchanting you, the balance is well unbalanced. Despite a favourable environment, the Government is self-satisfied with a worrying fiscal trajectory. France has the highest government deficit in Europe after Spain: it will grow by 6.5 billion euros in 2018 to reach 83 billion euros. France will borrow 195 billion euros on the markets, never seen in ten years! Our public debt will reach 96.8% of GDP in 2018. Despite the continued low interest rate profit, the debt burden will increase over the next three years. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We've been waiting for you for an hour, Minister. We wonder whether your delay is proportional to the jupiterian respect due to Members or to the budgetary unpreparation. You will all have understood this: in addition to being unfair, this budget is damaging for future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u267	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u268	This article closes the first part of the finance bill; It is therefore an item in the balance sheet and I will use this time to explain our vote. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Macron and Mr. Philippe gave financial management lessons in turn. A deficit of €82.9 billion, a debt that is close to 100% of GDP, but there is no problem in stating, in the general statement of reasons, that you set yourself the objective of "sustainable recovery of public accounts". No need to have done the NAE to understand that the deficits are growing, the recovery is not for now. But rest assured, I am absolutely not surprised by this increase in the deficit because your budget is in line with those voted for years and those who will be voted in the future if we do not change our economic model in depth. If we continue on the path of submission to finance, Brussels technocrats and boundless globalization, it will appear that this budget is at the service of those who succeed, contrary to what Emmanuel Macron wants. As for others, they only have to submit to the nomadic and uprooted society that the system has been trying to impose on us for decades. In short, this budget does not restore our public finances and, even more serious, it will have an extremely small impact on the competitiveness of our companies. It is not with him, therefore, that our external trade deficit will be reduced. It is therefore highly feared that the loss of industrial or agricultural jobs will continue. Finally, the worsening public debt leaves France increasingly at the mercy of markets. I am really concerned about the consequences for our country when, like most economic specialists anticipate it, interest rates will rise. You understand that, minister, we will vote against the first part of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u269	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u270	I think that we have rarely done so in such a dark humour by talking about an article on the "general balance of the budget", because we can only see the general imbalance in our finances as a result of this budget itself. But, unlike my colleagues, the Republicans, I am talking about an imbalance in inequalities. Minister, you have succeeded in making 9 billion gifts to the richest of our fellow citizens, especially to the holders of capital. We have never been able to explain this, but I understood that we will have the impact studies later, that is, when the concrete consequences of this tax gift will come without any consideration. You will have given crumbs to 9 million of the poorest and, for the vast majority of French, it will be a loss of purchasing power, because the CSG will be increased immediately, while the effect of the measure on the housing tax will be deferred, with implementation over several years, as well as that of the measure on social contributions, which we have said anyway the greatest evil. Above all, by lowering public spending, you will have two effects: an immediate effect, with fewer public services, less national solidarity, and everyone knows that all those, in this country, who do not possess astronomical fortunes to be able to live; and then an effect on the economy because you will slow down one of the fires that irradiates and supports the French economy for years, that of public spending. In short, it is the most unequal and austere budget of the Fifth Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of En march, I have heard you applaud the end of the ISF and the creation of the flat tax as if you had voted for paid leave or the Veil law, but I am not sure, I tell you kindly, that you will receive the same applause in your ridings when you return to it after the budget you are going to vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u272	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u273	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u274	However, we were very surprised by the suspension of the meeting requested by the Government, which lasted more than an hour. The Minister of Economy and Finance denounced the amateurism of the previous government in the case of the tax on dividends of large companies; We're not far from it. In any case, with regard to an article which, I concede, is far from annoyed, all this looks like last-minute improvisation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This article sets the state deficit for 2018 at almost 83 billion euros. Financing resources come mainly from new medium- and long-term debt issues in the markets, amounting to EUR 195 billion. It's huge! The bet is risky, even in a context of very low or even negative interest rates. This shock on the part of the Government with regard to the overall balance of the budget is like last-minute DIY, which is not very reassuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u275	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u276	I did not intend to speak at this stage of our debates, but I think it would be useful to send a few messages to the minister. The first element: a budgetary deficit of 83 billion in 2018, while growth has restarted – your assumption is that it will reach 1.7% – is a performance that France would have done well! Secondly, your budget seriously undermines local and regional authorities. We have discussed the housing tax at length. I also watched yesterday – it was Sunday – the impact that your "super golden rule" could have on some communities. I realized that some municipalities and communities of municipalities will no longer be able to carry out investment projects, because they will be completely enclosed in this new rule that the State does not impose on itself. Third, life insurance and housing savings plans will be taxed from which they were previously exempt. But it is a matter of popular savings. It also seemed important to me to remind you that these measures will remain as the mark of a government that wants to look to the future but turns its back on the simple people, the people. Taxing the CEL and the ELP – the housing savings account and the housing savings plan – you had to dare! Similarly, as we saw during the debates of the other night, you wanted – quite new – to apply the flat tax only beyond 500,000 euros of annual revenue from stock options or shares. We can see the paradox of exempting very large incomes and taxing popular savings. This will be your mark; It seemed important to me to stress this today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u278	The Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor to support Amendment No. 1380.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u279	Madam President, the rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I apologize to the House for the delay of half an hour in the resumption of the sitting. It should not be seen as a sign of disrespect for the rights of deputies or of the Government's alleged amateurism. It's only because of me: being on the move this afternoon in Aisne, I had to receive trade union organizations, which delayed my return to the capital, and a few traffic jams didn't fix anything. It's my fault; I'm very happy to apologize. After an important week of work on the first part of the finance bill for 2018, the Government proposes, as is the tradition, to draw, by one amendment, the consequences on the balancing article of the amendments adopted by your assembly in public session. The work it has done has, I believe, been fruitful: listening and sometimes compromise have been able to prevail over such important matters as housing tax reform, the creation of property tax or ecological taxation. All the contributions of your assembly bear witness to your spirit of responsibility, with a view to adopting a first part of the finance bill that reinforces the bill submitted by the Government. The amendments that you have adopted – I would remind you that they are unfortunately not final, since the time comes for the debates in the Senate, which will be followed by a second reading in the National Assembly and finally by the adoption of a final text – have the consequence, compared with the finance bill tabled by the Government, of damaging the budget deficit by just over 200 million euros. A first series of amendments have led to a reduction in the return on tax revenues of EUR 406 million, particularly in the area of income tax. Your Assembly has wished – by means of an amendment proposed, I would remind you, by all the political groups – to delete Article 8, on the extension and adjustment of the tax credit for the ecological transition, the ISCED, by shifting, in particular, the refocusing of the scheme originally planned for 27 September 2017, which has had the effect of reducing gross revenue. In addition, your assembly has improved the Government's housing tax scheme for modest people, which has the effect of increasing both rebates and rebates. Conversely, the amendment extending the application of the climate-energy contribution to liquefied petroleum gas – the so-called LPG – has led to an increase in tax revenues of EUR 50 million. Finally, your amendments have made it possible to improve the Government's project on the creation of property tax. On the other hand, in a constructive spirit, we have jointly found a balanced solution with regard to the taxation of water agencies, with the one-year extension of the cap and the reduction of the cap on taxes and charges levied. The measure replaces a €200 million levy on accumulated resources, in exchange for a commitment from your assembly to reflect on this reduction in cap in 2019. In a moment, the rapporteur-general will give the opinion of the Committee on Finance on this amendment, which I will then ask you to adopt. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The speeches of Members who spoke on Rule 28 seemed to be a general discussion or a catch-up of absence at this weekend's sittings. I would remind you that the composition of the 14 billion euros of additional deficit has already been explained: 10 billion euros of tax cuts fully borne by the State; EUR 4 billion of rebudgeting, which will make relations between the state and social security more concrete, truer and more sincere. I would remind you that, for the first time in ten years, we are introducing a budget bill with a deficit of less than 3% of GDP in all public administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u281	Thank you for the growth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u283	I would like to recall the reason why we are gathered this evening, because it seemed to me, earlier, to hear explanations of vote, whereas it is only on tomorrow's agenda: Amendment No 1380 of the Government which you have before you is only intended to draw the consequences on the balance article of all the amendments which we adopted during the discussion of the first part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u284	Yes, but it doesn't fit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u285	Before it, I would remind you that we passed 119 amendments, or, by not taking into account those that were editorial or identical, 54 amendments: twenty-three amended sections of the bill; Another deleted one – Article 8 on ISCED – 28 have been the subject of sub-amendments or have inserted additional articles. In total, the first part of the PLF now has 58 articles. The Government's amendment foresees that the government's budget deficit will amount to €83.1 billion, compared to the initial €82.9 billion, an increase in the balance of €200 million – exactly 206 million. This is the result of three elements. First, revenue, which was expected to reach €302 billion, will in fact amount to €301.8 billion. Why? Like the Minister, I recall the three major budget items that have been amended: first, of course, over the last few months of the current fiscal year, ISCED, which was scheduled to be abolished on 27 September 2017; Water agency charges, by far the most important problem; the famous "grandfather's clause" for people who have lost half a share and are in a difficult situation with regard to the housing tax. The revenue thus amounts to EUR 301.8 billion. Expenditure remains unchanged at EUR 386.3 billion, as does the balance of the supplementary budgets and special accounts, which stood at EUR 1.4 billion. For all these reasons, the Committee on Finance is in favour of Amendment No. 1380.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u286	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u287	First of all, I would point out that, in recent years, the examination of the rule of balance had not been preceded by an hour's suspension of sitting and had not taken place after the debate on the European levy but after the vote on the first part of the draft finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u288	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u289	Last year, we didn't wait for an hour, because it's just a matter of adding up. Precisely, Minister, in the list set out in the summary statement of your amendment, I do not find all the amendments adopted; I am thinking in particular of the one concerning the ZRRs, the areas of rural regeneration. I would like to make sure that it is included in the final sum, so that it does not disappear at second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u290	Yes, we have to make sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u291	We're surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u292	We know that the amendments sometimes follow rather tortuous paths. Can you assure us that all the amendments adopted have indeed been recorded, in particular the one on ZRRs, which covers EUR 3 million, even if I understand that it is not this measure that will bring about a significant change in the government deficit or the state of public finances? The list of the summary statement of your amendment is not exhaustive. We like exhaustive lists, with additions that just fall, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u293	We could suspend the session for another hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u294	Oh, no! We can trust the Minister, if he reassures us on this point: does the addition he has made well reflect all the amendments adopted, in order to prevent some of them from disappearing at second reading?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u295	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u296	I would like to reassure Mrs Rabault that the amendment relating to the ZRRs, which actually contained a memory of 3 million, is well included in the addition that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u297	I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that explanations of vote and the vote by public vote on the whole of the first part of the articles of the 2018 Finance Bill will take place on Tuesday, 24 October 2017, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-23-O1023.u298	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote on the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022 and on the first part of the finance bill for 2018; Social Security Funding Bill for 2018. The meeting is adjourned.
