ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, ratifying Order No. 2016-131 of February 10, 2016 reforming contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations (No. 315, 429).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u2	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u3	Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Mr.Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, today you will discuss the bill to ratify the order of 10 February 2016 reforming contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations. This order is essential because it has enabled France to acquire a modernised, accessible and attractive right to obligations. It is the result of a very long process which has led to a balanced content. The long road that led to the adoption of this reform, whose necessity and urgency were accepted by all, was far from quiet. However, he was particularly rich in reflections, consultations, intense exchanges and debates. Today, I want to retrace this path quickly before you, and take this opportunity to recall how the method followed, marked by transparency and exemplary publicity, has made it possible to carry out this reform. It will have taken time, skill, will and patience to reach the text that you are now debating. A long time was first needed to formulate the observation made during the bicentenary of the Civil Code in 2004: it was necessary and urgent to reform the law of obligations. This right, which was essential in the daily life of citizens and economic actors, had developed outside the civil code by means of extremely rich case law, but which did not offer the same guarantees of legibility and predictability as written law. The Civil Code no longer reflected positive law, and other countries, which had been inspired by the Code in the past, had not waited to reform their own law of obligations. Yes, our civil code had become too old, too dated to remain a beacon of civilist thought! It was then necessary to build up multiple legal skills to make this reform possible, which is first of all rooted in the remarkable reports written under the aegis of Professors Catala and Terré between 2005 and 2011. These doctrinal projects had also been enriched by the contributions of legal professionals and economic actors. This work mobilized the knowledge of those – not only academics, representatives of the legal professions but also business lawyers – who participated in the broad public consultation conducted by the Chancellery between February and April 2015. This consultation, unprecedented for the Ministry of Justice, launched on its website, resulted in more than 300 contributions, representing more than 3200 pages, read and analysed by the Directorate of Civil Affairs and the Seal. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of this Directorate for the considerable and fruitful work they have done. The order published on February 10, 2016 is thus not a work developed in the secrecy of a ministerial office. On the contrary, it is the result of a fruitful dialogue and an important collaboration with all the actors involved in this reform. The comparative examination of the preliminary draft order and the order that had finally been issued revealed the Government's attention to the criticisms and proposals made in the context of that consultation. Many improvements have indeed been introduced in the text following it: some of a technical nature, others in response to legitimate concerns, expressed in particular by economic actors. Thus, the scope of the prohibition of unfair terms has been restricted to accession contracts, a criterion of clearly excessive advantage has been added to the definition of abuse of dependency or the mechanism of treaty subrogation has been reintroduced. The publication of the Contract Law Ordinance was also accompanied by a particularly substantial report to the President of the Republic, of more than 50 pages. This report is a remarkable tool to inform the Government's intentions in the drafting of the Ordinance and has been a valuable guide for all practitioners since the entry into force of the Ordinance. If time and skills have been required, it will also have taken political will to reach the text before you. This will was expressed in 2015, when the Government was allowed, in particular thanks to the confidence of your assembly, to carry out this reform by order, not without having previously ascertained that no constitutional obstacles existed against it. Particular attention has been paid to the drafting of the enabling article, so that Parliament knows precisely the scope and the broad lines of the reform. Finally, a hint of patience will have been necessary. Nearly twelve years have elapsed between the launch of the work on the occasion of the two-hundredth anniversary of the Civil Code ceremonies and the publication of the order of February 10, 2016. As I have just pointed out, these twelve years have been particularly rich in academic contributions, reflections and intense exchanges with economic actors and legal professionals. The Order, which entered into force on 1 October 2016, therefore does not constitute a revolution. It is the result of constant collaboration with practitioners, all of whom, at each stage of the drafting of the text, have had the attentive ear of the Government and the Chancellery. It is also a fruitful dialogue that has taken place since the beginning of the ratification process, first with the Senate, and then, with your Law Commission, to correct some misconceptions and improve certain provisions. On some of the amendments passed and approved by your Law Commission, the Senate has helped clarify the text of the Order, without changing its meaning or spirit. On other points, however, to which the Government objected, the Senate made substantive choices that called into question certain balances of reform. Your Law Commission has reviewed these amendments. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, Sacha Houlié,'s support and determination to return his full balance to the order. We will find ourselves, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced, on the idea that strengthening the attractiveness of the law should not lead to sacrificing any humanistic ambition. The economic effectiveness of contract law cannot be reconciled with the protection of the weakest. The purpose of the order was precisely to reconcile this requirement of economic attractiveness with this requirement of contractual justice, all too often and wrongly opposed. In the opinion of practitioners and commentators, the order had reached this balance. The text before you today, as a result of the amendments adopted in the Committee on Laws, is fully re-establishing it, and I can only welcome it. It is faithful to the objectives set by the enabling law: to meet the constitutional objective of intelligibility and accessibility of the law, while making the law more effective and attractive, without sacrificing the interests of the weaker parties. The text before you today focuses on two main objectives. The order consists above all, and this is the first objective, in a work of codification of the jurisprudence. A remarkable and abundant jurisprudence had developed for two centuries to fill the silences of the civil code or to adapt a text that had become too old to the demands of our contemporary society and its more globalized economy. In essence fluctuating, and thus causing legal uncertainty, these jurisprudential solutions, which are widely accepted, have been included in the Civil Code by the text of the Ordinance, giving them greater predictability and certainty. The accessibility of civil law has also been strengthened by the adoption of a clearer civil code plan, by a renewed vocabulary and by simpler formulations, all without sacrificing the very French tradition of conciseness of the civil code, which is indispensable for its sustainability. While the style of the code of 1804, admirable by its elegance and sobriety, makes reference, today's vocabulary is not that of the nineteenth century and contract law could not remain totally alien to this evolution. The second objective of the text is to strengthen the effectiveness and attractiveness of French law. Contract law, now revitalized, will help restore France's capacity to act as a model in this area and will allow the parties to international contracts to take full advantage of it. In this perspective, beyond the formal abandonment of the concept of cause, which is not understood by our European partners in particular, the order enshrines in the law certain mechanisms resulting from the practice, such as the assignment of contracts or the assignment of debts, and simplifies other mechanisms in order to make their use easier. This is the case with the formalities necessary for the third-party effectiveness of the assignment of receivables, which are relaxed in response to the needs arising from the practice. With a view to limiting the dispute, the order also develops unilateral remedies at the disposal of the creditor in the case of an unexecuted obligation, to enable it to react promptly in the event of non-performance. These remedies allow him, without having to wait for the outcome of a trial, to avoid a waste of time and money, which can be detrimental to the continuation of his economic activity. Innovative solutions, such as the interrogations, are proposed to the person who is about to conclude a contract or to the person who has already concluded it, so that he can put an end to a situation of legal uncertainty, such as a risk of nullity, by calling on a third party or its contracting party to take a position on this situation within a certain period of time. Strengthening the attractiveness of our right did not mean abandoning our values. In this respect, the text proposes instruments guaranteeing contractual justice, which protect the weak, while being effective and adapted to the requirements of the market economy. The Senate has chosen to reduce its scope. Today you are proposed to restore these instruments in their fullness. Beyond the general consecration of the principle of good faith, the order thus penalizes the abuse of a situation of dependence by a contractor, which the Senate wanted to reduce to the only situation of economic dependence. This restriction, which the Government had opposed, would deprive our right of a mechanism to punish abuses committed against a contractor, who is in a situation of psychological dependence on the contractor. The Law Commission has chosen to restore to this provision its full usefulness. The Government was satisfied with that. The order also introduces the sanctioning of clauses creating a significant imbalance between the rights and obligations of the parties in the accession contracts, as already exists in consumer contracts, for example. This choice was not challenged by the Senate. However, there is an open debate on the definition of the membership contract, which was amended by the Senate and then by your Law Commission. These successive changes actually reveal the difficulty of the exercise. The Parliamentary Shuttle will refine the definition and bring together views on this important aspect of the Order. Finally, the revision of the contract for unforeseeability is introduced, which allows the adjustment of the contract whose performance is made excessively difficult for one of the parties by a change of circumstances beyond the control of the parties. The Senate has amended the text in a way that removes its usefulness. Your Law Commission has restored to its full effectiveness, which, from the Government's point of view, is also very positive. The ordinance, which has integrated our legal regime since 1 October 2016 and required a very great effort of adaptation on the part of practitioners, is now submitted to your assembly for ratification. Although its entry into force is still too recent – since it is only a year old – to assess the impact on litigation in practice, a satisfactory balance seems to be reached today between the necessary modernization and the maintenance of the main principles of our contract law. This balance has been fully identified by the Law Commission. I will therefore invite you to confirm this by your vote. This ratification is necessary because of the substantial importance of the Ordinance, which covers more than 300 articles of the Civil Code, the basis of our economic exchanges. It is primarily a key issue from the point of view of legal certainty, since the order applies to contracts that have been concluded for more than a year now. The Senate has demonstrated responsibility by making only a few amendments to the text of the Order in light of its scope and by allowing, through the debates that took place there, to resolve possible difficulties of interpretation. Thus, clear lines of interpretation could be found in the case of recurrent questions such as the imperative or suppletive nature of the texts of the ordinance or the relationship between ordinary law and special rights. I have no doubt that the debates that will now be opened with your assembly will help to confirm these views and to resolve the few difficulties of interpretation that still remain. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, here I want to show my confidence in your spirit of responsibility and foresight. Your Law Commission, according to the rapporteur, was committed to fully re-establishing the spirit of reform, while confirming some of the amendments made by the Senate. I can only invite you to follow this path and to adopt the text that you are now discussing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u4	I call Mr Sacha Houlié, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u5	[[Smile]] Madam Chair, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, as has just been said, the order that you are proposed to ratify is made on the basis of the authorization issued by section 8 of the Act of 16 February 2015, it came into force on 1 October 2016, and it is the culmination of fifteen years of work. So it was with a hint of patience, as you said, Madam Minister, in one of those euphemisms which lawyers have the secret, that we had to work to achieve such a good result. If this suspicion of patience has been necessary, it is probably because this part of the civil code has been amended for the first time since the Napoleonic Code was drafted in 1804. The objectives of the reform had therefore to be carefully considered. Because the goal – as you said, Madam Minister – is twofold. The first is to modernise and make French law on contracts and obligations more readable, accessible and predictable, but without disrupting it, which has been done following a triptych that I will describe in a moment. It is also a matter of increasing the attractiveness of this right, taking into account contemporary economic issues. The triptych I have just mentioned, decrypted by Professor Mazeaud, is the following. First, the order enshrines jurisprudential solutions that, by definition, were not known at the time the code was developed, since it was the practice that created them. Secondly, it tries to resolve interpretation difficulties that remain despite the work of the judges. Thirdly, it introduces into our positive law innovations which are inspired by European and international projects or are the result of the work of eminent jurists. Particularly innovative provisions include, first of all, the very definition in the Civil Code of a contract of accession, and the consecration of the cancellation of clauses with a significant imbalance in this type of contract. Then come the corrective manifestations of contractual freedom: the obligation of information, the voluntarily expanded scope of dolosive reticence, the desire to extend also the sanction of violence in the event of a state of dependence, or the powers attributed to the judge in the theory of imprevision, which was previously recognized only in administrative law. Before I give you the details of the arrangements, let me describe to you the logic that governed our work. The order is of technical inspiration, no doubt, but it has eminently political effects. Thus, while there is a constant question of building a necessary balance between conflicting interests, this text constitutes an alchemy between freedom and equality. The balance thus introduced nevertheless represents a rupture: breach of contractual freedom as the sole guide of the legislator first, when drafting the text, of the parties then, at the time of formation and performance of the contract, finally and especially of the judge, when he is brought to know about it. If, in 1804, contractual freedom was so promoted, it was that the editors assumed, presupposed, or even admitted perfect equality between the parties. The use of the code, the evolution of practices, the work of the judges showed that this was not the case. In fact, if equality no longer existed, then, for reasons of contractual justice that were taken into account in our work, it was up to us to rebuild it. The definition of the contract of membership that I propose to you has no other purpose than to build mechanisms of contractual equality – Professor Mazeaud even speaks of an "island [...] in an ocean of freedom" – nor of any other objective than to protect the weakest contracting parties. So this is the leitmotif of the text that I am presenting to you today. This will came from an experience, albeit meagre, of young lawyers, who, hearing from eminent and renowned colleagues, argued that it was up to the lawyers that we are to understand society in order to heal its ills, kept in mind this wise advice to conduct the legislative work which we are looking at today's result. Let us come to the point, and to the legislative provisions themselves. The bill was introduced in the Senate on June 9, 2017, when it was considered by its Law Commission and passed on October 17. Composed of a single article, it came out of the Senate with an additional 14 articles. Articles 2 to 9 proposed amendments to contract law, while articles 10 to 14 dealt with the law of obligations. Finally, section 15, which we wanted to rewrite, deals with the thorny issue of law enforcement over time. Practitioners and legal theorists had already commented extensively on the text; We have drawn inspiration from their work. At my initiative, as well as those of Mr Raphaël Gauvain and all the members of the La République group on the move, and of Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann for the UAI group, the Law Committee has endeavoured to follow the principles that I have just defined. It therefore reinstated or improved the provisions of the order, which, as the minister recalled, had been deleted or reviewed by the Senate in the name of a liberal vision, in particular those relating to the contract of membership, violence related to the abuse of the state of dependence and the power of review of the judge in the context of unforeseeableness. The Commission has thus simplified the definitions of the over-the-counter contract and the contract of accession or, in any case – as not all will be of the opinion that this is a simplification – tried to clarify them so that they adapt to as many situations as possible and that they are intelligible by both the parties and the judge. The OTC contract is therefore defined as "the terms of which are negotiable between the parties", while the contract of accession is defined by its general terms and conditions, which we wanted to restore to give them a definition: that of "a set of non-negotiable stipulations, determined in advance by one of the parties and intended to apply to a multitude of persons or contracts" – that is, three objective criteria. By this definition, by restricting the scope of the accession contract, we ensure that all clauses with a significant imbalance are subject to annulment by the judge. We have thus created a double funnel that protects contractors in our opinion. Unlike the Senate, we have chosen a mechanism to cancel all the terms of the membership contract, which was not the case before. The Commission also removed the case of the termination of the offer following the death of the recipient of the offer. Some amendments will propose that it be reinstated; I should like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that I will oppose this in the name of the consistency of our work. We have also reviewed the two-month time limit set by the Senate to respond to the inquiry into the matter of either a preference agreement or jurisdiction, to prefer to it the "reasonable time" of the original text, which I will ask for to be continued. As you know, the Commission has re-established section 1166 of the Civil Code, which provides that in the event of an indetermining of the quality of the service, it must be assessed "in accordance with the legitimate expectations of the parties", i.e., to take into account the two parties, rather than one as in the Senate text. The commission has also clarified the provisions of section 1223 relating to price reduction, which is a novation in relation to the text of the order as well as the one that came to us from the Senate. Under this article, the unilateral reduction of the price by the creditor, if the creditor has not yet paid all or part of the benefit, must be proportional to the non-performance found. In our view, the implementation of this text required a binding mechanism. That is why we have provided for the creditor to notify the debtor of its reduction of the price, who can accept it in writing, in which case the way of the judge is closed. There is an analogy with the compulsory prior administrative remedy: once again, civil law is inspired by public law; It's a reason for satisfaction for the publicist I am. The Commission also clarified that in the case of assignment of contracts or assignment of debts, the security rights granted by the assignor or the original debtor automatically disappear. It also extended the possibility of using foreign currencies as a "account currency" to all contracts, as long as the obligor of the obligation retains the right to free himself in euro. This drafting of article 1343-3 of the Civil Code remains unsatisfactory at this stage, and must therefore be the subject of further work by the Senate and the National Assembly. But it was up to us not to permanently close the door to this provision when some anticipated its pure and simple suppression, which seemed premature to us. Finally, after deleting all or part of the amendments introduced by the Senate – we have retained jurisdiction – we have specified that the coming into force of this Act is on the first day of the third month of its publication – you will forgive us for this slight complexity – and we have explained the conditions for applying its provisions to current contracts. This is nothing new: as a matter of principle, the provisions of the amended Civil Code are not applicable to contracts concluded before its entry into force; However, by way of derogation, the interpretative provisions, which are embodied in the provisions of the Ordinance, apply retroactively. As you can see, we have endeavoured to restore – because it is a goal that we share, Madam Minister – the balance between contractual justice and the autonomy of the will, in other words between equality and freedom. This aspiration for a fairer common contract law is intended to bring French law closer to other foreign rights. It is also fully part of European harmonisation projects. As dean Carbonnier wrote – with which I share poitevin roots – "coding is changing." But, as far as the amendments are concerned, we also need to know why we should keep it, in order to achieve our second objective: the legibility and attractiveness of our law, both of which need stability. It is therefore on the margin that we need to amend this excellent text. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I therefore invite you to adopt it in the version of your Law Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u6	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u7	In the general debate, Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u8	Madam Chair, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mr Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, promulgated in 1804 by Napoleon, our civil code has long inspired the world. It has even made civil law the most widespread legal system across continents. In France, it is a pillar, if not the pillar of law. Dean Jean Carbonnier said of the civil code that it is "the Civil Constitution of the French". But he has since lost some of his beautiful. This text, which brings together the rules on persons, goods and their relations, has not sufficiently adapted to changes in society and to globalisation. It contains many provisions that are now imperfect and obsolete. Even though there has been very little reform in the last two hundred years, the Civil Code has evolved in practice thanks to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, which has forged major rules, sometimes in contradiction with certain provisions, which may have led to judicial reversals, and thus to unpredictability. This is particularly the case with provisions relating to contract law and obligations. In addition to its obsolescence, French contract and obligation law faces normative competition between national laws. Other countries that have adapted more than we do, international assessments, particularly of the World Bank, consider French law to be unpredictable and complex, thus making us lose in attractiveness. Moreover, since the beginning of the 2000s, there has been a desire in our neighbours, if not a necessity, to harmonise European law in these areas. These circumstances make the reform of contract law and obligations a necessity. That is why, in 2004, on the occasion of the bicentenary of the Civil Code, the launch of a major reform was announced. The aim was to make our right more legible, predictable and accessible, criteria that are obviously taken into consideration by foreign investors. Since then, however, little progress has been made. There were three pre-projects; But none of them led to the long-awaited reform. However, these fifteen years of reflection and work have not been in vain since, in February 2016, the Government issued an order reforming contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations, which came into force eight months later. The primary purpose of this bill, which is to ratify, is to strengthen the "accessibility, intelligibility and predictability" of our contract and obligation law, in the words of Professor Denis Mazeaud. To this end, it codifies several jurisprudential solutions and introduces certain innovations. The principle of freedom of contract is renewed, in particular the provisions of the Civil Code relating to the contract of accession, violence in the event of a state of dependence or unpredictability. This much-awaited reform was welcomed by law actors, but also by those in the economic world, as the attractiveness of these two distinct but related areas has already been strengthened. However, there are imperfections in this order. That is why the bill to ratify it, which we are going to consider, was completed by our honourable senators last October. Originally composed of a single article intended only to ratify the ordinance, it now contains fifteen. These articles are intended, inter alia, to introduce provisions on definitions, negotiations and consent; clarify the concepts of capacity and representation; changing the content, effects and performance of contracts; Finally, to change the law of obligations. They have been adopted by the vast majority of the political groups, which is evidence of a genuine work of listening and concertation. The legislative work then continued, since during the committee's review of the laws in our house, several amendments came to clarify, or even correct, provisions introduced in the Senate. Here, too, most of the groups voted in favour of the text. This version of the draft law, which has been improved twice, provides in its articles 1st to 5 to amend the civil code to clarify the definition of the contract by agreement; clarify the concept of repairable harm in the event of misconduct in pre-contractual negotiations; introduce a definition of the general conditions which characterizes the accession contract. Article 6 seeks to clarify the rules on the capacity and representation of legal persons, as well as on situations of conflict of interest. As for Article 7, it intends to amend the provisions specific to the content of the contract in order to introduce judicial resolution as a penalty applicable in the event of unfair pricing in service contracts. Articles 8 and 8 bis deal with the effects of the contract, give the judge the power to revise the contract between the parties in the event of unforeseeability, and specify that in the event of an assignment, the security rights granted by the assignor automatically disappear. The following articles are intended to modify the law of obligations. These are Articles 10 to 14, which provide, inter alia, for the assignment of debt to be subject to the formalism of writing; specify that, in the case of assignment of debt, the security rights granted by the original debtor automatically disappear; or clarify the rules on the payment of sums of money in foreign currency. Finally, article 15 seeks to amend article 9 of the Ordinance, specifying that contracts concluded before 1 October 2016 remain subject to the old law, and to postpone the entry into force of this bill, in order to allow the actors concerned time to anticipate it. The text therefore not only ratifies an order which, although we regret the method in our capacity as legislator, has already proved its effectiveness, but also fills other gaps in our civil code in the law of contracts and obligations. Its provisions meet the needs of legal actors, as well as those of economic actors, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the least prepared for major legal developments. It will be up to us to pay particular attention to the national, European and international effects of this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, the IDU Group, Action and Independents will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u9	Mr David Habib, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u10	Madam Chair, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr. Rapporteur, I was in your place, Madam Chair, under the previous Parliament, when the House passed the bill enabling the Government to reform contract and obligation law by order, and I know how tedious the succession of speakers in the general debate was. That is why I will try to avoid falling into their own way and get into the heart of the matter: the New Left Group will vote for the ratification of the ordinance. He endorsed the approach suggested by the rapporteur, namely to return to the text of the original order so as not to create uncertainty in the contracts concluded between publication and ratification of the orders. We have made this choice, although we share with some of our colleagues several analyses in the Senate. This text bears witness to a spirit of responsibility that must be ours. We therefore consider that the simplest thing is to ratify the order as proposed to us and to remain in its original version, which, as has been repeated – and as I am therefore unfortunately repeating – is prior to your arrival in the Government, Madam Keeper of the Seals. I would not be able to account for the guards of the seals who had to know about the subject. It must be depressing for a seal keeper to know...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u11	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u12	You reassure me! Such a temporal amplitude, however, allows us to measure the quality of the work carried out under the previous legislature by your predecessors, the keeper of the seals, by your predecessors, the rapporteur, and by all those who were able to express themselves and work on these issues. Madam Keeper of the Seals, after having communicated to you our position as a group and recognizing your willingness to balance the modernization of our law, to marry the evolutions of the French economy and society, and the preservation of the interests of the weakest, in order to avoid any inequality between the parties to the contract, I would like to address the question of the contracts that bind the elector to the politicians. Yesterday, a very nice municipal election was held in my constituency. The Socialist Party largely won, while the Republic on the March made a very bad score, not exceeding 10 or 11 per cent. I would like to inform you, since you are a neighbour of the Aquitaine and you retain an interest in what is happening in the south-west, especially in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. It is the question of the place of public services that has fueled the municipal debate and is at the heart of the contract between the Orthezian voters and their new socialist mayor. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you about the future of the Court of Appeal in Pau, because this issue raised in Béarn a tumult that I cannot explain. She deserves to be resolved. You can, if you accept it, ease tensions in one sentence and reassure legal professionals about the maintenance of this Court of Appeal. I would not have honoured my attachment to the Béarn, if I had not questioned you this afternoon on this matter. Thank you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, for clarifying this point. The New Left Group will vote on the ratification law, although we are well aware, by referring the text back to the Senate, of extending a procedure that could have ended this evening. However, as the dialogue started fifteen years ago, we may well take a few more weeks to reach an agreement with the High Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u13	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this reform of contract law was long overdue. It was expected first by the professionals, by the doctrine, and second, of course, by the students. Indeed, the inconsistent regulation of the texts in the Civil Code and the development of a plethora of case law had made this subject unnecessarily complex. The political challenge of the reform of contract law lies in the balance between the need for justice in the contract, which involves greater intervention by the judge, in which we believe, and the contractual autonomy that would justify the maintenance of unfair situations in the name of legal certainty. We regret that the reform of such an important matter was carried out by order and was not submitted until today, after its entry into force, to the debate before national representation. This order, however, has the merit of clarifying the existing rule of law through a more coherent recodification and codification of settled case law. For example, the duty in good faith from negotiation to performance of the contract is now recognized in law. The general obligation of information to be provided prior to the formation of the contract is also now included in the law. We think this is a good thing. In addition, the order introduces novelties that have the effect of strengthening the role of the judge, which we welcome. Indeed, in its original wording, the order breaks with a jurisprudence established for 140 years on the judicial review of the contract for unforeseeability. Thus, where a change in circumstances makes the performance of the contract too costly for one of the parties, the judge may revise the contract. In the same way, the common law enshrines the category of accession contracts and gives them protection from the weak party to the contract. But this text, in its present form, also contains setbacks or risk takings to which we oppose. The Senate, in its first reading examination, carried out a real liberal offensive – within the meaning of law, according to which people are free to draw up contracts, the social report must not be taken into account and the judge must not intervene on the substance of the contract when deciding on its respect, which is not our conception – on imprevision, particularly on the actions interrogated. The Senate has made the political choice to reduce contract law to a common instrument for the competitiveness of rights. The Law Commission has generally been able to resist the liberal offensive, but not completely, since the adoption of a restrictive definition of the accession contract runs counter to the sense of protection of the weak party. Moreover, the obsession with the international attractiveness of French contract law must not be the legislative compass. During the discussion of the bill, we will propose that you innovate and strengthen justice in contractual relations. First innovation: to introduce a non-limitative list of provisions that fall within the sphere of public order, thus preserving the powers of the judge. The drafters of the order have asked themselves the question of this reform, but have finally abandoned the project, which is a pity. In essence, we believe that strengthening and consolidating public order, while leaving the judge a power of discretion, is necessary. The second innovation – you will recognize this as one of the battles that we are waging in the context of the finance bill and the amending finance bill – would be to arm our law in all areas against tax evasion – fraud or unfair tax optimization – by introducing the concept of abuse of tax law into common law. In concrete terms, when the non-payment of taxes reaches amounts as great as what Panama paper, Paradise paper or LuxLeaks reveal to us, it means that our right is not sufficiently armed to enforce the fundamental republican rule of contribution to the common effort, consent to tax. Until the re-establishment of the republican tax order, we must constantly legislate wherever it can be useful. We have to act. Finally, we propose to strengthen justice in contractual relations by re-establishing this tool at the service of the judge who is the cause of the contract – which is why two parties contract – and of the obligation. We welcome the fact that the functions of the cause concept are enshrined and codified by the order. However, we believe that this concept must remain literally in our law in order for the judge to have a malleable instrument for regulating contractual balances. Contract law is faced with situations that are evolving at the same time as society, and it is preferable to maintain the cause in our civil code. In short, this text goes in the right direction, provided that our assembly resists any new liberal offensive and returns to the spirit of the ordinance. If the text goes this way, we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u15	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u16	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill ratifying the order of 10 February 2016 on the reform of contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations is – as you have pointed out, Madam Keeper of the Seals – the outcome of a process that lasted more than ten years, started in 2004 with the bicentenary of the Civil Code, the coronation of a fruitful dialogue and of an important collaboration between doctrine, magistrates and all practitioners. The aim of this reform is to modernise our civil code, simplify it, improve its readability and improve its accessibility. The aim is also to ensure the legal certainty and effectiveness of the standard. For here is a French contradiction: generations of law students, I the first, have learned from Professor Terré that we are a country of written law guaranteeing, in relation to common law countries, accessibility, predictability and therefore legal certainty; However, according to Professor Terré, our main text, the civil code, the one laying the foundations of common law, is more than 200 years old, with essentially pretorian solutions. Thus, after more than two centuries, it no longer corresponded to the law in force. I will not present in detail the 300 or so new articles of the Civil Code. For the most part – as you have recalled, Madam Keeper of the Seals – the order proceeds to a chronological organization of the contract, from negotiation to execution. The vocabulary is simplified. The notion of cause, on which generations of students have torn their hair, is finally removed. And above all, jurisprudential solutions are now enshrined in the Civil Code. This is true of the pre-contractual period, the generalization of the concept of good faith, the obligation to inform, the unjust enrichment, the pact of preference, the unwillingness to act, or the exception of non-performance. Apart from the constant codification of jurisprudential solutions, the text contains innovations that had not previously been retained by the courts. The text includes, in particular, significant progress in combating the contractual imbalance. In this regard, the order contains two important innovations: the extension of the concept of economic violence and, above all, the introduction of the theory of unforeseeability, which allows the judge to substitute for the will of the parties to restore the contractual balance. Thus, in certain strictly regulated circumstances, the civil judge no longer merely interprets the contract or merely interprets the will of the parties to the contract. On these two points, the Senate returned to the text of the order; On the contrary, our Committee on Laws wanted to maintain the great balances of the original text. The La République group is in favour of this. On the substance, I would like to remind you once again that these innovations have been the subject of wide consultation and consensus in both doctrine and practice. It will be up to the judge, and in the first place to the Court of Cassation, to accompany and supervise these developments. In my view, the main challenge is to preserve the legal certainty of contractual relations. It should be recalled that the text has now been in force for more than a year. Practitioners – lawyers, notaries and companies – have begun to soak up the text, to use it, without knowing exactly what scope it will be given by the courts. They began to use it even though in application of the principle of non-retroactivity of the law, recalled in the text of the order, the contracts signed before October 2016 will be subject to the old law, the contracts signed since, to the text of the order, and the contracts signed tomorrow, to the new text. The best thing to do is to guarantee the stability of our law and thus legal certainty. It is therefore essential to adopt the text of the Ordinance and amend it at the margin, without changing its meaning or spirit. Subsequently, the judge, and in particular the Court of Cassation, will serve as interpreter. In this regard, it should be recalled that the jurisprudence is free from the principle of non-retroactivity of the law. By nature, the case law is of immediate application; it is retroactive. More generally, we, as legislators, must not substitute for the judge. I will take an example to illustrate my point. The new Article 1104 of the Civil Code extends the requirement in good faith to the negotiation and formation phase of the contract, where the third paragraph of former Article 1134, which is well known to practitioners, referred to good faith only at the stage of performance of the contract. Remember the text of article 1134: "Legally formed conventions are used as a law by those who have made them. ... They must be executed in good faith. The requirement of good faith in pre-contractual negotiations had already been enshrined in case law. It is now codified and included in a subsection on negotiations. The distinction proposed by the order between negotiation and contract formation can generate debate and debate. Indeed, either these two concepts apply to the same situations, in which case the reference to the formation of the contract in good faith by the order will have been useless – only good faith in the negotiations will be retained – or, on the contrary, the formation of the contract is an autonomous concept in meeting the wills in relation to the strict negotiation of the contract. This requirement of good faith during the formation of the contract may then open the door to abundant case law to assess ex post facto whether the contract was concluded in good or bad faith. But how can we appreciate this good faith? What sanctions should be imposed on him? This debate on the scope of the new Article 1104 will have to be decided, but by case law, in particular by the Court of Cassation, not by the legislator. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The right is not frozen, it is a living matter. The Court will no doubt evolve in its case-law. As a first step, it will, for example, be able to exercise extreme caution; Then, with a decision in principle which it will publish in the bulletin, it will suddenly reverse by acting boldly to accommodate the autonomous character of the formation of the contract in article 1104 of the Civil Code. Perhaps, on the contrary, the Court will immediately show boldness, but, overwhelmed by litigation, it will return to a wiser and more restrictive case law. Law is a living matter; It's not up to us to freeze it in the marble. These decisions of the judges, these reversals of the Court of Cassation will make the happiness of commentators, professors of law and of course lawyers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u17	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u18	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our right – continental law – is confronted with the challenge of the growing influence of Anglo-Saxon law. It is time for us to take the measure and fight against the penetration of the common law into our legal system. In recent years, unfortunately, the latter has gradually interfered with our right, without our assembly sometimes taking full measure of it. Continental law has inspired the construction of multiple rights in Europe and in the world, and it is unthinkable that France, which is in a way the cradle, is at the origin of its deconstruction. We must therefore fight against this acculturation, which can only take place at the expense of our interests. In a period when competition has increased between the two major systems of law, where, in particular, Anglo-Saxon law is actively promoted, the influence of the civilist tradition and its assets must be developed and emphasized – in particular, by tirelessly recalling that our continental law is much more protective of citizens than Anglo-Saxon law. We must then and above all adapt our right to the needs of time, without giving up what is its strength. As you know, our system of continental law is based on three essential pillars: the law, passed by Parliament, the judge who tangles conflicts between the parties, and the authentic act which, by the seal of the State, seals the agreement between them. If one of these pillars were to be weakened, our whole system could be faltering. No one now doubts that law as a general rule, and that of contracts in particular, is an indispensable instrument for the power and competitiveness of a nation. The business world now makes extensive use of what we call the election of jurisdiction, known as the English forum shopping. This approach leads large companies to analyse national legal systems before establishing themselves in a territory or developing an activity there. The objective is, of course, to determine its reliability and thus the ability to respond to the legal needs of major groups. It is therefore crucial that our law be more attractive to reassure the business world and offer our businesses a legal environment conducive to their activities, but also to attract foreign companies. For more than two centuries, French law of obligations has become a reference for many countries around the world. But times are changing, and in order to maintain our attractiveness, we need to adapt. The state of affairs was far from satisfactory: our law of obligations no longer reflected the economic reality of the twenty-first century. It appeared to be overwhelmed by business needs and practices. We have based our system on solidity, which is not always synonymous with responsiveness, efficiency and flexibility, which have become imperatives of our modern societies. Two centuries after it was written, the only reading of the civil code no longer makes it possible to understand our positive law, as the case law had to strive to interpret the legal rules in order to adapt them to the changes of the world. Consensualism by nature, the contract under French law has undergone the increasingly frequent interference of the magistrates, not to interpret the texts according to the situations, but to adapt them to the practical needs. Today, therefore, the reform of our contract law is being closely monitored both by the legal professions and by companies, which expect tangible developments. It is indeed companies that have to deal with bicentennial rules, made scalable by ever-changing case law, thus creating legal uncertainty. There is an urgent need to reposition our right in the real economy, to offer consumers greater security, and to businesses a better competitiveness. We will thus participate in making France a more attractive investment land for companies. In the context of Brexit, this imperative is even more pressing. While some London headquarters may consider a change of location, our duty is to encourage them to cross the Channel by making our rights more attractive and competitive. The order that this bill seeks to ratify has several objectives. First, it aims to improve the accessibility and readability of contract law, the regime of obligations and evidence. This amendment is necessary in order for the Civil Code to reflect once again the real state of positive law, which has evolved since 1804 under the influence of jurisprudence and doctrine, and no longer largely corresponds to the written rules. The purpose of this text is also to simplify and clarify the presentation and drafting of the provisions of the Civil Code relating to these same areas. This will make them more comprehensible to as many people as possible, in particular through an effort to define and simplify the vocabulary. As far as the attractiveness of our law is concerned, I note that this order is based on European plans to harmonise the law and makes it possible to bring French legislation closer to other national laws. For example, the formal deletion of the cause concept, whose functions are now carried out by expressly stated provisions, is positive. This text thus enhances the economic efficiency of our civil law by introducing a number of new solutions. However, we could have gone further. As such, we regret that some of the advances made by the Senate have been removed by the Law Commission of our House. This is the case in particular with the provision on the termination of the contract offer in the event of the death of the recipient, as is already the case with the death of the offeror. I must also mention the setting, on the initiative of the Senate, of a period of two months during which the recipient of the pact must confirm its existence and its intention to avail himself of it. This measure was abolished in committee while it helped to combat legal insecurity. The commission also returned to the abolition of the power to review the contract entrusted to the judge in the event of an unpredictable change of circumstances during the performance of the contract. This choice undermines the principle of the binding force of the contract between the parties: we regret it. It also seems to us essential to exclude the mention of the value of the field from dolosive reticence, for reasons which I will mention a little later by defending an amendment. Finally, we can only deplore the use of the order procedure for this reform, especially since ratification comes more than late – but I am well aware, Madam Minister, that this reproach should not be addressed to you, nor to the present majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, the Republican Group believes that this text is in the right direction, helping in particular to simplify and update our law on the basis of jurisprudence and doctrine. Our group, in a spirit of responsibility, will support its adoption and propose amendments to our House to improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u19	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u20	Madam President, the guardian of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are considering today is intended to ratify the order of 10 February 2016 on the reform of contract law. I will not go back here to the reasons for its elaboration, nor to the many contributions that have fed it. I will return mainly to ratification, first on the form and then on the substance of the text before us. In terms of form, ratification is not legally required. Indeed, the provisions of the Ordinance in the field of law have incorporated the legal order and are binding on the holders of regulatory power, both before and after their ratification by Parliament. Ratification has a legal impact only on the nature of the review of legality that may be exercised on the order: once ratified, the order is subject to the control of the Constitutional Council and can be challenged by means of a priority issue of constitutionality. Even when Parliament has authorized the Government to rule by order on a given matter, Parliament retains the possibility of retouching the work of the ministries during the ratification phase of the ordinance. This ratification can take the form of a simple confirmation of ministerial work; In this case, logically enough, the Government is introducing a ratification bill with a single article that is limited to ratifying the ordinance. When he was in custody of the Seals, François Bayrou had proposed a bill to that effect, with regard to the ratification of the order of 10 February 2016 – even if it had not been prepared under his authority. We remember the opposition between the Senate and the National Assembly on the procedure to be used for the reform of contract law: senators did not want it to be by order, and preferred the ordinary legislative procedure. But the National Assembly made its point of view prevail: it was finally the procedure of the ordinances that was adopted by the law 16 February 2015 on the modernization and simplification of law and procedures, in the fields of justice and home affairs. Senators have heard a voice in the ratification phase. To this end, they have conducted numerous hearings of practitioners, professional associations, academics and others. The result was quite impressive: as many as fourteen amendments were tabled by Senator Pillet, rapporteur of the text. Most of the proposed amendments improve the quality of the provisions of the Civil Code. On the other hand, some of them, rarer, touch on substantive issues. These amendments clarify the definition of the accession contract and the scope of the sanctioning of unfair terms in these contracts. They have also made it possible to clarify, for example in Article 1343-3 of the Civil Code, the criteria allowing payment in international currencies on French territory, or by clearly stating that the new law cannot apply to contracts concluded previously. It is pleased that the Law Commission of our House has limited these amendments, because if this ratification bill substantially amended the order, then a "new contract law" would appear, different from the "new contract law" that came into force with the order of February 10, 2016. The law of the order would apply to contracts entered into between October 1, 2016 and the date of entry into force of the ratification law, e.g. March 1, 2018, and another right would apply from that date. In this case, what legal uncertainty – even though the reform of contract law was aimed at modernising our law and giving our economic partners a secure framework to do business with our companies! Especially since the new rules have already had to be appropriated by the practitioners of contract law: changing them again would be counterproductive. Therefore, we do not believe that it is appropriate that the ratification law amend the order in depth – that is what the Senate has intended to do – even though, on the merits, it is true that certain provisions of the order are being challenged, or may be deficient, according to some critics. Some of these difficulties have been identified, extensively commented on by civil law exegetes, and finally corrected by parliamentary work, notably by the rapporteur of the Law Committee of the National Assembly who has done important and serious work – the MODEM Group thanks him very much. However, other provisions remain criticized. The Senate intended to amend them through this ratification bill. We do not share the will of honourable senators: we believe that it is necessary to rely on the judges to implement this text and refine it by confronting it with the reality of the cases in question, as has already been said by another speaker. No text is perfect. This is the result of a long work of civilists, to whom we must pay tribute. He should now be allowed to live and create his own case law. I recall that the purpose of the Act of 16 February 2015 was to modernise, improve readability, enhance the accessibility of the common contract law, the regime of obligations and the law of evidence, and ensure the legal certainty and effectiveness of the standard. Effectiveness is the key word in this effort to define and simplify vocabulary. This order thus helps to strengthen the attractiveness of French law by moving towards the harmonization of our legislation with other international rights. It is not only a matter of bringing our civil code into line with positive law, but also of improving the competitiveness of our legal system, at the service of our territory. This ordinance improves the economic efficiency of our civil law, and is inspired by the practice that often leads to the simplification of existing legislation. Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Title I, for example, which deal with the sources of obligations, introduce innovative solutions, such as interrogations or the possibility of failing to comply with its contracting party's request for a reduction in prices. On the other hand, various provisions – this was a direct request from the actors concerned – specify the roles and powers of each person, in particular the judge, in Article 1195 of the Civil Code, thus avoiding the possible harm to the undertakings which the various possible interpretations of the provisions of this text were giving rise to. Many have criticized what they see as an interference with consumer law in the civil code, but it seems that this is the normal evolution of the law, just as environmental law is increasingly needed in many legal fields, or that Community law imposes changes on us and is part of our modern legal landscape. In this sense we agree with the definition proposed by the rapporteur of the accession contract and with the possibility for the judge to reform a contract for unforeseeable reasons. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] We are therefore in favour of this ratification bill as it was drafted in the work of the Law Committee, and of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. The MODEM and related groups will thus vote unanimously for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u21	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u22	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification bill we are considering this afternoon is changing a considerable amount of contract law, the general regime of obligations and the regime of proof of obligations. Reform in these areas was absolutely necessary, in order to make the law more legible and accessible. This is indeed a largely jurisprudential right, whereas our legal tradition favours written and codified law. Europe was at the initiative of this reform: in the early 2000s important work was carried out on European contract law, which aroused the concern of some of the French doctrine, concerned that national law was completely ruled out. This led to the initial work on the major reform of contract law, on the occasion of the celebration of the bicentenary of the civil code. Twelve years have elapsed until the publication of the order of February 10, 2016. Meanwhile, there were very rich contributions from all walks of life. In this regard, mention can be made of the pre-projects Catala and Terré, the preliminary drafts of reform published by the Chancery in 2008 and 2011, the public consultation in 2015, the more than 300 written reflections addressed to the Ministry of Justice, the abundant jurisprudence – of course – and the multiple hearings of professionals, judges and academics conducted by parliamentarians. The order came into force in October 2016, just over a year ago. The law of obligations requires stability: it is essential for lasting relations between the various economic actors. That is why there is no question here of reforming the reform. Our group will therefore follow the rapporteur who wishes to restore the original text, with very limited and very focused amendments which do not in any way call into question the balance of the text. This ratification should be widely endorsed by practitioners and by doctrine, as the reform was expected. Indeed, it marks a major development in several ways: the concept of the cause of the contract disappears, while the theory of imprevision, economic violence as a new defect of consent and so-called interrogations in the matter of pact of preference or action for nullity enter into the civil code. The text also affirms, as an introductory text, fundamental principles, guiding principles of law. In this respect, I think of the concept of freedom of contract, which was once called the "autonomy of the will", which must remain the main action in the field of contract law. I am also thinking of contractual security, much expected by the economic world: the written provisions must be permanent and always apply in practice. Finally, I am thinking of a principle that can be found in other European rights: good faith, in other words contractual loyalty. All these innovations justify ratification of the Ordinance. It will be so, I hope, according to the two objectives defined by the Government: to strengthen the legal certainty of relations between the parties, and to advance the attractiveness of French law, not only from the internal economic point of view but also from the perspective of influence of the French legal system abroad. Indeed, the challenge of modernising contract law is not only in terms of strictly understood law, but also in terms of the competitiveness of our territory, particularly at the time of Brexit. This does not mean, however, that we must abandon our traditional humanistic values: this text aims precisely at equipping France with instruments to guarantee contractual justice, protecting the weak, while being effective and adapted to the requirements of the market economy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the La République on the move will vote on this ratification bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u23	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u24	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u25	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur – The chairman of the committee has left us – this has already been said: Parliament is called upon to ratify, more than one after its publication, the order reforming contract law, the general system of proof and obligations. Like other speakers before me, I deplore the delay in ratification: such an order should have been ratified a long time ago. Of course, the last year was marked by elections, presidential and legislative, which caused some disruption to normal legislative work. However, the previous government played with the dates of publication without complying with the ratification obligations. Thus, while the enabling law of 16 February 2015 gave a period of 12 months to make the order, it was only published on 10 February 2016; Then, while the enabling law required the tabling of a ratification bill within six months, it was not until June 9, 2017, well after the deadline imposed by Parliament. Many speakers have recalled that this order is the result of a long process of more than ten years of reflection on our right: this is true. That is why I am astonished at the use of an order when a debate in Parliament would have been justified, in particular on the law of obligations, the basis of our civil code. Although this decision was taken under the previous legislature, I regret it. It would have been all the more important to have such a debate as we touch on the heart of the functioning of our society, the hard core of law, so important that, as has already been pointed out, it has hardly evolved in more than two hundred years, since the Napoleonic Code was drafted. The fact that a right does not change for almost two centuries does not come from chance: it is proof of its solidity, proof of how well thought out it had been at the time of its drafting. We must always return to the base, to the origins, and this is all the more so when we legislate under the gaze of Jean-Étienne-Marie Portalis, one of the editors of the civil code, who has his statue in the living room that we go through every day, ladies and gentlemen, to come to this Chamber. Nevertheless, contemporary issues, legal developments and globalization require the adaptation of our law. That's the purpose of this prescription, which doesn't upset him. We support this order as it makes contract law more readable and accessible, so that it better reflects positive law. In order for the law to be understood by all, including the provisions on contracts, the general regime of obligations and evidence, an effort has been made to define and simplify the vocabulary. With this order, the consequences of globalization are taken into account. It is also intended to strengthen the attractiveness of our national law, as you said, Madam Minister, on the basis of European harmonisation projects. Direct consequence, and it is not neutral: it removes the notion of cause. Finally, it seeks to increase economic efficiency. It thus tackles the theory of unforeseeableness, creates a new vice of consent based on economic violence, and three new actions called "interrogations". Despite my initial reluctance, the substance of this order is in the right direction and I will of course vote on it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, in our society, which is plagued by brutal and rapid changes, where everyone can sometimes be astonished by an evolution and wonder about the humanist philosophy of our people, we must be careful not to displace rules that form the basis of our living together. Let us not hesitate, as I said, to return to our origins: the law of obligations, a legal concept that comes from Roman law and has been in force for centuries, is the link of law created by the effect of the law or the will of the person or persons who undertake to provide or receive a good or a service. This definition alone is the basis of all human and societal interactions. Let us return to the basis of things, to the simplicity of things. Let us stop complexing, overly technocraticly legislating and rigidizing standards, and perhaps our society will do better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u26	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the order that the Government is asking us to ratify today is a kind of updating of our civil code. But touching the monument of the civil code is almost like touching the Constitution: it must be done "with a trembling hand", to use the words of Montesquieu. But when we read this order, we find that unfortunately the hand of the editors did not tremble... No wonder we know that this reform was carried out by Mrs Taubira, who did not have the habit of trembling in order to tackle the foundations of our society. Since I have the deep conviction that law is a marker of civilization, I consider that certain changes made by this ordinance are a real attack on our heritage, on our vision of society, in short against France. Heir of Greek and Roman rights, patinated by Christendom, fruit of the history of France but also ambassador of its influence, the civil code is one of the emblems of our country. Like La Marseillaise, like the tricolor flag, it has travelled around the world and even served as a basis for many other countries to build their own rights. Far from saying that this text written in 1804 did not deserve a grooming – indeed, the majority of the articles of the ordinance are indeed an update. But the main problem is that the editors of the order – in other words, the services of the Chancery, which is a major problem – took advantage of it to introduce major changes in our law. These major changes introduced by the vector of an order and not drafted by Parliament clearly pose the essential problem of the place of the legislative power in this reform. I find that we are dealing with a case of misappropriation in the use of this constitutional tool. Remember that the Senate and the Assembly's Law Committee had even refused to vote on the application for authorization! In substance, these changes clearly mark an Anglo-Saxonization of our law. We all know here that our society is already in many areas assailed or even distorted by this phenomenon, but until now the law remained one of the areas in which we still resisted, over and over again... To subject our right to Anglo-Saxon rules is to question our vision of man and the relations that govern men and women. The place given to the judge is particularly eloquent in this sense: it is the judge, and no longer the people through their representatives, who will gradually become the creator of the legal norm. We switch slowly but surely towards the application in France of the common law, which is a "major change of civilization", as Mrs Taubira could have said. Let us be very clear: we do not want it! This order marks a further step towards widespread contracting, a step that these globalized financial powers want to take in order to impose on us their model of society. No more moral control, no more social control... In short, with this reform, you participate in the movement that wants all human relations can, and soon will have to be the subject of contracts! Our model of law is of stability recognized throughout the world. However, paradoxically, this reform will create legal instability and in reality weaken our rule of law, and therefore displease those who have only this word in their mouths, the competitiveness and above all the attractiveness of our economy. But it will also be dangerous for employees. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of the concept of good faith, not only when negotiating and executing, but also now when the employment contract is formed. You need to know that some employers' unions are already rubbing their hands by reflecting on the use they could make of this addition to call into question labour contracts massively: a slightly increased CV, slightly enhanced studies will tomorrow be the basis of a general litigation that the editors probably did not anticipate. Or maybe if... And I do not mention here the disappearance of the cause and the object to the benefit of a smoker "content" that no one has managed to define precisely. Again, legal instability and subjectivity will become the rule, and the weakest, that the new civil code says it wants to defend – while a whole series of other codes already do, the consumer code for example – will of course be the first victim. Change to change, to make "modern", to respond to the lobbies, to obey the European Union, to leave its name in history, to please an ideology... We lose ourselves in conjecture about the pitiful reasons behind this wrong blow to our right, to our country, to our people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u28	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u29	The comments made by Mrs Le Pen on the too heavy a hand that the drafters of the order would have had in relation to the symbolic monument that the civil code would constitute do not seem to me to be appropriate. On the one hand, aiming at one of my predecessors, Mrs Taubira, seems absolutely useless to me here, because I am very concerned in this area with the continuity of the State and not with its personification. On the other hand, to say that the enabling law as passed would not allow Parliament to intervene again is an inaccuracy. As has been pointed out, the text before you today has been prepared after hearing and taking into account the remarks of a large number of academics and business lawyers, as well as a large number of elected members of the Senate. It is therefore the result of a fruitful, built, dialogue-based work. And then I would remind you, Madam Member, that this enabling legislation that you are criticising, as well as other speakers, has been monitored by the Constitutional Council, which has found that both the scope and the content of the measures it sets out are sufficiently precise to be validated. It therefore seems to me that both in the procedure and in the drafting procedures, there is no need to find elements justifying the criticism of this text. With respect to the deadline for the introduction of the ratification bill, I would like to point out that the current government tabled it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u30	You're not involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u31	You did not say otherwise, honourable Member, I have noted it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Apart from these observations, I must say that what we are doing here, most speakers have testified, is not at all to copy so-called Anglo-Saxon rules, but to update the law. Mr. Houlié quoted Jean Carbonnier. Toulousaine and not Poitevine, I would have preferred that he cit Maurice Hauriou... But it doesn't matter: I will refer to Léon Duguit, Bordelais, so between the two, who said how much law is only the reflection of society. And I believe in this case that our society evolved between 1804 and today. It would be harmful for our society and for our right that this text on contracts, which is really a founding text, did not translate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u32	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u33	Since a compromise has been reached between the school of public service and the school of public power, the essence of the debate between Duguit and Hauriou, I would like to say a few words after the minister. First of all, I stress the existence of a comprehensive agreement on the reform that has been carried out for contract law, an agreement that might be masked by some dissension around the elements of contractual justice that were defined during this general discussion, but which ultimately reveal a salutary debate on how to clean up and renovate the civil code by incorporating new elements. I regret that one of the speakers has shown great inconsistency, because when one claims to protect the weakest, one cannot reject all the elements of the civil code which are precisely intended to protect the less enlightened contracting parties. In your amendments, Mrs Le Pen, you propose to remove good faith in the formation of the contract. This will weaken those who have the least information! You propose to remove the requirement for prior information by reversing the burden of proof and creating an intelligence obligation. This will weaken the weakest part! You propose to remove the error of law in case of dolosive reluctance. It will have the same effects! And I do not go back to what has been said about the power of the reviewing judge in case of unforeseeableness: it is still an element of contractual justice. I am not the only one to say this: excellent Professor Mazeaud makes it one of the advances of the reform. I will not talk about notions that seem outdated to me, because they are translated into the content of the civil code: I am thinking of the disappearance of the cause and the object. For if these terms disappear, the notion of the essential cause of the obligation, which removes the contract if withdrawn, contributes to the balance that we found in this reform. And this is a salutary element. That is why, at the time of the amendments, I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, to retain the version of our work in committee because it is fair and balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u34	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u35	I have before me four amendments on the additional article after Article 1. I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u36	The purpose of this amendment is to remedy what I believe to be an oversight of the order: it seems that the posthumous mandate has been forgotten. Article 1159 of the Civil Code provides that "The establishment of legal or judicial representation shall, during its duration, divest the representative of the powers transferred to the representative", but also that "Conventional representation shall leave to the representative the exercise of his rights". The application of this article to the posthumous mandate deprives the same mandate of its effects. I also observe that the doctrine strongly mentions this: it is really necessary to divest the heirs in the event of a posthumous mandate, especially when it has been signed for the purposes of the administration, for a certain period of time and in the interests of the heirs, of a business.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u37	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u38	In fact, the amendment seeks to clarify Article 812 of the Civil Code, which deals with the conditions of the posthumous mandate, as well as Article 1159 on conventional representation. However, the chosen person does not have the same powers in both cases. Indeed, in the case of Article 812 on posthumous representation, it has a mandate on its behalf, and can therefore act within the framework of the entire rights of the principal. On the contrary, in the case of Article 1159, it has only one mandate in the interest of the representative and must therefore be answerable only to acts for which it has been empowered. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u39	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u40	It is also unfavourable. The amendment that you are proposing, Mr President, seeks to clarify, as the rapporteur has just said, Article 812 of the Civil Code concerning the conditions of the posthumous mandate. However, as the rapporteur has just done, the provisions on the posthumous mandate are special texts and the reference to the general texts, on the ordinary legal mandate, is made only to the extent that these texts are not incompatible with the provisions governing the latter mandate. The first paragraph of Article 812 of the Civil Code states that the posthumous agent is "appointed to administer or manage [...] all or part of his estate on behalf and in the interest of one or more heirs". The texts do not specify that the agent acts on behalf of and on behalf of the heirs. Thus, no mechanism of representation is expressly established by the text, since the mandate of the representative is not to represent the principal but to act on behalf of the heirs of the latter. The posthumous mandate thus allows the future deceased to keep away from the management of estates his heirs, even reservatories. In the opinion of the majority doctrine, it prevails the divestment of those same heirs. In the absence of representation, the rule of Article 1159 of the Civil Code, which concerns conventional representation, is therefore not applicable to the posthumous mandate. It therefore seems to us that there is no real difficulty here: that is why the Government is against your amendment, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u41	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u42	I thank you for your explanations, minister, but what goes without saying goes better by saying that if we want to avoid problems of interpretation, it would have been better to introduce this provision into the civil code. It happens, however, that our debates are valid for the purposes of the future law. Therefore, the fact that you mentioned this divestiture will give an indication to the magistrate, when he will have to interpret this text. I would have preferred that we could introduce it into the civil code, so as to avoid litigation. I take note of your comments, Madam Minister, but I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u43	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u44	The aim of this amendment is to include in the Civil Code a new Article 1102-1 laying down the minimum scope of what is a matter of public policy, that is to say, what the judges may take on their own initiative without having been requested by the parties, in order to ensure that the principles necessary for the proper functioning of our society are respected. These categories have been shaped by case law. We propose, in order to clarify the text of the order, which is also one of its objectives, that a non-exhaustive list of these public policy provisions be included in the civil code, including good faith in the negotiation, formation and performance of contracts and pre-contracts, the nullity of any clause which would deprive the contract itself of its substance and the nullity of the limitation clauses on liability for defective products. Indeed, we believe it is our duty to ensure that the law is accessible and intelligible. The Constitutional Council also demands that we be committed to "preserving subjects of law against an interpretation contrary to the Constitution or against the risk of arbitrariness, without deferring to administrative or judicial authorities the task of setting rules whose determination has been entrusted by the Constitution only to the law". We believe that this amendment meets this constitutional requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u45	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u46	This amendment was considered by the Senate, which had questioned by its rapporteur whether or not to include in the Civil Code a list of articles containing mandatory provisions. The Senate has not retained this idea, nor have we. First of all, we consider that the provisions of an imperative nature are already specified in the text of the Civil Code. On the other hand, the list would be too narrow: case-law might have to evolve and confer on provisions which are now only mandatory in nature. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u47	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u48	[[Murmures]] The Government's opinion was also unfavourable. Mr President, I fully understand your concern to combat tax evasion, which is also a major concern of the Government. However, it seems to us that the Civil Code is not exactly the right place for tax law provisions. Mr President, please forgive me, I was not in the right place. I'm confused and very sorry. On the basis of the principle of freedom of contract, the texts of Book III of the Civil Code relating to contract law have always been regarded, in silence of the law, as substitutes of will, as the rapporteur has just said. The reform of contract law has been part of this tradition: the report to the President of the Republic specifies this as a surrogate principle of the provisions of the Ordinance. By way of exception, the texts which are of public policy, that is to say those which the parties cannot treatyly rule out, have been formulated as such: you are quoting them in your amendment, Mr. However, since this is already clear from their wording, the text you are proposing seems superfluous and therefore unnecessary here. On the other hand, certain texts, such as those relating to the conditions of validity of the contract and its sanction, are in essence of public policy without any express reference to this. It must also be recognized that legislation which recognizes rights to third parties cannot be ruled out by the parties. In addition, there are texts such as those with definitions or classifications, for which a clause to the contrary would be nonsense. Finally, the case law may, as part of its task of interpreting the law, describe certain texts as imperatives: it is virtual public order. That is why, honourable Member, the list you are proposing to draw up, since it cannot be limited, seems to me rather to be a source of misinterpretation rather than a better understanding of the law for the users of the civil code. I therefore call for the amendment to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u49	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u50	Historically, the civil code required good faith only in the performance of the contract. Case law has extended this concept to the negotiation phase as a pre-contractual period. In this way, in the drafting of the civil code resulting from the order that you are asking us to ratify, Madam Minister, a subsection relating to negotiation. Either the concept of training is confused with that of negotiation, and in this case there is no need to add this concept to the law. In fact, subtitle I "The contract" is confusing as it includes a chapter II entitled "The formation of the contract", which includes a subsection entitled "The negotiations". Either these are two completely distinct notions, and the formation would then correspond to the encounter of the wills. In this case, the requirement of good faith opens the door to any interpretation when the assessment of good faith is made a posteriori. For example, as I indicated in the summary statement of the amendment, the slightest inaccuracy in a curriculum vitae could thus justify a posteriori breach of the contract of employment, even if it had been performed perfectly, both by the employee and by the employer. I am a little surprised to see on these benches people who claim to defend the employees agree with this new formulation, which risks seeing millions of employees be put on the saddle. If this new concept is formalized by law, it will weaken a very large number of contracts. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to restrict the reference to good faith to the areas of negotiation and performance of the contract, and thus to remove the concept of good faith at the stage of contract formation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u52	Mrs Le Pen, you are right on one point: I am in favour of contractual loyalty in all aspects of the contract formation phase – negotiation, training and conclusion. That is why I am against your amendment. I would like to respond precisely to your example of a curriculum vitae that, with inaccuracies, would in fact detract from the formation of the contract: in reality, if a person indicates that he or she worked between March 2012 and April 2016 in a company while in fact he or she left his or her position in March 2016, this element is not likely to call into question the validity of the contract. On the other hand, lying about his qualifications or experience is a violation of good contractual faith and the contract will be null and void. In short, the elements essential for the formation of the contract will therefore be protected in a very clear way. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u54	As Mr Houlié has just pointed out, Article 1104 of the Civil Code establishes good faith as a general principle and its scope is extended to all stages of the contract, whether during negotiations, training or execution, as had been the case-law. To affirm the requirement of good faith seems to me to be an ethical imperative in keeping with our legal standards and to illustrate the search for a balance between the interests of each of the parties concerned. In fact, several states have introduced the requirement of good faith in their own civil code at all stages of contract life: this is the case in Italy, Portugal, Germany and Quebec. This principle of good faith, affirmed at all stages of the contract life by section 1104, is then declined throughout the bill, of which it is not a technical basis, but, I repeat, philosophical and ethical. The requirement of good faith does not, in my view, weaken contractual relations: it will, on the contrary, guarantee their balance. As for the example you are quoting, it seems to me that the provisions relating to the contract of employment, and not to the civil code, must appear. The Government therefore expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u55	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u56	This amendment seeks to protect the parties to a contract from abuse of tax law. The Paradise Papers case showed that tax evasion and evasion penetrated all parts of society, exploiting all legal loopholes. Above all, this scandal has revealed the impotence of the States and the lack of courage of the European Union to fight effectively against these evils of modern society. If this primarily concerns company law and tax law, the ordinary law does not escape the absence of any explicit sanction for such abuse. That is why the group La France insoumée proposes to include in the law the prohibition of abuse of tax rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u58	My colleague, your amendment has a laudable objective, which we have said we share in committee. On the other hand, the proposed provision has no place in the civil code; Rather, it should be included in the book of tax proceedings in section 64 referred to in the explanatory memorandum. The fight against tax evasion is primarily based on better cooperation between States, in particular between the Member States of the European Union, in order to combat an extensive interpretation of what is legal to do in order to minimise the tax contribution of businesses. On this front, progress has recently been made with the adoption in June 2017 by the OECD of an action plan against base erosion and profit transfer, better known as BEPS: sixty-five countries have signed a new multilateral tax convention, which replaces more than 1500 bilateral conventions and includes anti-abuse clauses. At European level, the entry into force on 1 January 2017 of the Directive providing for the automatic exchange of rules, a prior tax agreement that each Member State signs with companies in cross-border matters, has put an end to an era of opacity. The aim is to prevent a country from granting tax conditions that are too advantageous to a multinational and thus deprive other States of substantial income linked to the actual activity of the company in their territory. This is only part of what is being done against tax evasion. For example, in the similar and parallel area of dumping, action is currently being taken against US multinationals known as GAFA. In any event, your disposition has no place in the civil code. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u60	Mr Coquerel, I apologize once again for not listening to you with sufficient attention earlier. I will therefore repeat what I have said: the fight against tax evasion is a major concern of the Government, but it does not seem to us that the civil code is the ideal place to insert provisions for this purpose. As the rapporteur pointed out, the book of tax procedures, in particular Article 64, would be the natural medium. I would add that even without such a provision, a contract which is intended to escape tax law illegally, or which is motivated by such a purpose, could be annulled on the basis of article 1162 of the Civil Code, under which "the contract cannot derogate from public policy either by its stipulations or by its purpose". As a result, the ordinary law of contracts already makes it possible to sanction contracts motivated by an unlawful purpose. In the light of these explanations, I invite you to consider the amendment satisfied and to withdraw it. Otherwise, I would ask for the rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u61	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u62	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your apologies: in this case, fault confessed is totally forgiven! We are maintaining the amendment for two reasons. First of all, the rapporteur will not be surprised, I am not convinced by the recent measures against tax evasion. The publication by the European Union of a very small list of tax havens, which leaves at least an equivalent number behind, prompts me not to be as optimistic as you do. As for the provisions adopted, they do not seem to us to be able to fight against one of the ills of financial capitalism. From the point of view of law, the procedure of abuse of law, in tax matters, gives the judge the power to exclude from himself the manifest abuse of law that leads to tax evasion. I therefore believe that the provision we are proposing would have its full place in the text, including in terms of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u63	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u64	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u65	Since the purpose of the orders is to simplify our law and we consider that paragraph 3 of this article makes it more complex, we propose to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u67	The opinion I will give on this amendment will also be valid for the next one. This is an essential aspect of the reform, an innovation brought about by the Law Commission of the National Assembly. The definition of the contract of accession needed to be revised, since the definition adopted by the Senate made too many contracts in this category, since it applied to any contract with non-negotiable clauses: therefore, a contract with only two non-negotiable clauses would have become a contract of accession, which would have made the latter a category catch-all. Therefore, in the definition we propose, we retain the concept of "general conditions" in Article 1110 of the Civil Code, which defines the contract of accession. It is this concept that we then define as a set of non-negotiable stipulations, the contractual package thus constituted being likely to apply to a multitude of contracts or persons. It does not matter whether there is an identity of the contractors to reproduce the model: it is enough for many people to draw on it to identify the general conditions that underpin the contract of accession, defined as opposed to the contract of agreement, which, for its part, is freely negotiated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u69	The principle of the inclusion in the Civil Code of the concept of a contract of accession was unanimously welcomed, as this contractual figure is extremely common in practice. I have, however, heard criticisms of article 1110 of the Civil Code as derived from the Ordinance, with some commentators questioning, in particular, the exact notion of "general conditions". Their definition is indeed subject to discussion. Concerns have been expressed, which have just been pointed out by the rapporteur, in particular with regard to the conventions to which a party is associated without the possibility of negotiating their original terms. This is the case with membership in the statutes of a grouping or a shareholder agreement. The Government did not intend to cover these assumptions: the terms of a company's articles of association or a shareholder agreement are negotiated by the original parties. To consider that these statutes or covenants are equivalent to a contract of accession for the assignee of shares to which it is necessary would be to ignore other than the letter, at least the spirit of the text. More broadly, the Government's will was not to qualify as a contract of accession any contract in which only a few isolated clauses would be non-negotiable at the request of a party. It is therefore important for Parliament to clarify, in Article 1110, the definition of the accession contract, which is at the heart of the mechanism for combating unfair clauses. In this regard, your committee has done commendable work in defining abusive conditions. The shuttle will, I have no doubt, allow the proposed definition to be refined. For the sake of these explanations, I invite you, Mr Huyghe, to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will ask for the rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u70	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u71	Minister, rapporteur, you are both referring to the position taken by the Senate. For my part, I do not share it and that is not what I am defending by this amendment. On the other hand, to hear your explanations, the fact that the provision brings more complexity than simplification is highlighted! That is why we are maintaining the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u72	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u73	The purpose of this amendment is to provide the widest possible protection to contracting parties under an accession contract. In an article published on the blog Dalloz on 30 November last, two university professors, lawyers Gaël Chantepie and Mathias Latina, considered that the law commission had consciously sought to "limit the contract of membership to only part of non-negotiable contracts in order, conversely, to restrict the judicial power to abolish abusive terms". That is why the La France group, which shares this analysis, hopes that the judicial protection of the weak contracting party against unfair terms will be as broad as possible, with the following wording: "clause exempt from negotiation, determined in advance by one of the parties. » Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that this reform of contract law does not necessarily have a liberal or social dimension under previous law. Nevertheless, we must seek to ensure the best possible protection for the contracting parties. That is why I have no doubt that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u75	I would like to clarify the second floor of our definition of the accession contract. If Article 1110 of the Civil Code narrows the scope of the contract of accession by referring to the general conditions within the meaning of Article 1119, on the other hand, we did not wish to restrict the scope of Article 1171 on unfair terms in the contracts of accession: any clause which would create a significant imbalance between the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract may be annulled. We see here our efforts to protect the most exposed parties, who conclude a contract of accession which, in part, they cannot negotiate, but who have the right to challenge all the terms of the contract. It is therefore a question of strengthening their rights. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u76	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u77	Mr Coquerel, I will take up the argument I made for the previous amendment. While the introduction of the accession contract was welcomed, the definition of the concept was complex, as Mr Huyghe pointed out. The reference to the general conditions introduced in the order crystallized the criticisms, in so far as their definition is itself subject to bail. It seems to me, however, that the definition that you are proposing is close to the one that was adopted by the Senate at first reading. If it had the merit of deleting the reference to general conditions, which was such as to clarify the meaning of the text, it would, on the other hand, lead to the extension of the scope of application of accession contracts beyond the contracts covered by the original text. This could lead to any contract in which a few isolated clauses would be non-negotiable at the request of a party as a contract of accession, which does not correspond to the Government's intended contracts. The contracts which the Government intends to regulate by means of the mechanism to combat unfair terms are those which include a set of clauses pre-established by one of the parties and proposed for the accession of potential contractors without the possibility of negotiation. This block of standardised clauses, exempted from any negotiation, frequently referred to in practice as "general conditions", is a characteristic of accession contracts. The proposed amendment might extend the category of accession contracts too extensively, which does not correspond to the original spirit of the text. I therefore invite you to withdraw it, otherwise I would ask for its rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u78	I have before me an amendment No 10, introducing an additional article after Article 3. Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u79	At the beginning of Article 1112-1 of the Civil Code, the following paragraph should be inserted: "Each contractor shall be required to inquire about the elements of the contract which are determinant of his or her consent. » Mr rapporteur, I believe that you are making an error of analysis: it is not a question of overturning the duty of information, but of supplementing it. This amendment is therefore intended to provide a crucial addition to the accountability of all parties to the contract. One cannot in fact conceive a right in which one of the contracting parties, even a consumer, would be exempt from any research and effort at the conclusion of a contract. If there is a duty of information of the contracting party, reinforced obligation where one of the parties is a professional, this must not be a means, for the contracting party, of exonerating himself from his individual responsibility. Both the buyer and the seller must be considered rational. Allowing a co-contractor to exonerate himself from his responsibility for his inexperience or lack of research into the subject matter of the contract is, I believe, putting him in fine in a minority condition. This would move from an individual and protective right to an infantilizing right. The regulation would no longer regulate or regulate social relations: the law would then become a tool of guardianship over citizens who would no longer be so. Law is not only a technical or pragmatic means of regulating social relations: it stems from political philosophy and allows us to imagine and organize the society of tomorrow; And for tomorrow, there must be a duty not only of information but also of information in the establishment of contracts, for which the citizens must first and foremost remain equal and free.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u81	This amendment, defended in the Senate at first reading, had been usefully withdrawn. I therefore reiterate this request for withdrawal, failing which the opinion would be unfavourable. If I fail to reverse my opinion, allow me to complete it, since that is also your wish. As defined by the Order, the duty of information already includes the obligation of the other party to inquire. Failure to comply with the duty of information can only be punished on the condition that the ignorance of the person who avails himself of it is legitimate. It would therefore be legitimate to ignore essential information only those who are unable to access it alone, hence the obligation to provide information. The order, my dear colleague, is not intended to defuse the responsibility of the contracting parties, on the contrary. Two things: either your amendment is satisfied; or you hear go further by reversing the burden of proof. I therefore invite you to withdraw it, or I give it an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u83	I support the rapporteur's arguments. One of the innovations of the Ordinance is the introduction into the Civil Code of a general pre-contractual duty of information, already largely enshrined in the case law. This duty, however, is limited by the duty of the other party to inquire: this is deduced from the text itself. According to Article 1112-1, the duty of information exists only if the other party legitimately ignored the information or trusted its contracting party. This requirement of legitimate ignorance therefore means that there is, conversely, a duty to inquire. If I do not find out even though I could easily access the information, my ignorance is not legitimate: therefore, I cannot invoke the responsibility of the other party for failing to fulfil its duty of information. This duty to obtain information will, of course, vary according to the nature of the information and the quality of the parties. Relations between a party and its contracting party may also, in certain circumstances, justify giving it special confidence. If, for example, I am a partner in a company of which the other party is a social leader, I can legitimately assume that he has provided me with the information on the financial situation of the company. The same will apply if one of the contractors is professional and the other is secular. This legitimate confidence therefore justifies the duty of information, a corollary of the duty of loyalty and good faith in contractual relations. I therefore call for the amendment to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u84	We come to amendments with additional articles after Article 3a. The rapporteur, Mr Sacha Houlié, has the floor to support Amendment No. 17, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u85	If you allow me, Madam President, I shall at the same time introduce Amendment No 16, which has the same purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u86	All right, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u87	I would remind you that we have just restricted the scope of the accession contract, a set of non-negotiable clauses that could apply to a multitude of contracts or persons. In these contracts, all clauses are likely to be challenged if they involve a significant imbalance. In order to avoid cumulation of the applicable rights, and since the Consumer Code and the Commercial Code already provide for the sanction of unfair terms, I propose to clarify that Article 1171 of the Civil Code is not applicable in the context of Articles L. 442-6 of the Commercial Code and L. 212-1 of the Consumer Code. The committee accepted these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u89	In the context of the reform of contract law, the Government wished to be sanctioned in the Civil Code by abusive clauses which create a significant imbalance between the rights and obligations of the parties. In no way was it intended to call into question the special arrangements which existed in the Consumer Code for contracts concluded between professionals and consumers or non-professionals, and in the Commercial Code for relations between trading partners. The Government intended to understand situations not dealt with by these special texts, such as contracts between professionals who are not commercial partners within the meaning of the Commercial Code or contracts which, between individuals, could be described as accession contracts. Article 1105 of the Civil Code recalls in this respect that the general rules of contract law apply only subject to the specific rules relating to certain contracts. In fact, the majority of the commentators of the order have correctly interpreted section 1171 as applying only when the special texts of the Consumer Code and the Commercial Code are not applicable. In his report, the rapporteur of the Senate's Law Committee made the same reading. The issue, moreover, seems to me very limited with regard to the link with Article L. 212-1 of the Consumer Code, since it is more protective of consumers, in particular because of the existence of blacklists and grey lists of abusive clauses. Even if I understand your wish to cut any discussion short, rapporteur, the clarification you are proposing therefore seems to me unnecessary in this case. I therefore invite you to withdraw your two amendments; Otherwise, I would rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u90	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u91	The record of our discussions will make it possible to decide this point of law in case of difficulty. In these circumstances, I withdraw my two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u92	The Commission has deleted Article 4. I have before me an amendment No 6, which is intended to restore it. Mr Sébastien Huyghe has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u93	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish clause 4, which the Senate had adopted. First, it provides for the termination of the contract offer in the event of the death of the consignee. In other words, it is a matter of consolidating the system of lapse of supply by giving an express indication of this situation. As it stands, Article 1117 of the Civil Code does not take this situation into account, whereas, by settled case-law, the Court of Cassation considers that the offer is not passed on to the heirs of the addressee. Secondly, the amendment seeks to replace, in Article 1123 of the Civil Code, the concept of a "reasonable" period with a fixed period of two months in order to remedy legal uncertainty and avoid disputes arising from divergent interpretations. In fact, it is better to clarify our right than to rely on the case law, to which our distinguished colleague from La République en marche intended to grant a great deal of prerogatives. Our law is written in this forum: case law merely interprets texts that are insufficiently explicit or too little adapted to a factual situation. Under no circumstances should we entrust the drafting of the law to the courts, i.e. the judges. This legal system, based on the previous case law, is not our system but the Anglo-Saxon system, and we do not want it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u95	You wish, dear colleague, to re-establish a mechanism detrigued by the commission in a version identical to that of the Senate, on two aspects. The first, as you said, concerns the lapse of the offer in the event of the recipient's death. On this point the committee, in the back of the Senate, considered that the offer must be able to continue in the event of the death of the recipient, particularly in the real estate field: the heirs may in fact have an interest in concluding this offer when its recipient has unfortunately died. The second point concerns the time limit for questioning, which is the novelty of the order. This time limit raises two questions: the one raised by your amendment, the pact of preference, and the one on the ability to contract. In one case, the two-month time limit provided by the Senate is too short compared to the "reasonable" time limit in the original text; In the other, it's too long. It is too short for the pact of preference, therefore, in so far as it is difficult to know the consequences of it; for the ability to contract, it is too long because you may want to speed it up. These are the reasons why the committee, on these two aspects, reviewed the Senate copy. I propose, Mr Huyghe, that we stick to the arrangements laid down by the committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u97	The same opinion, for the reasons set out above by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u98	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u99	It can be assumed, Mr rapporteur, that the seller would not have made a real estate offer if he had imagined the death of the buyer, in view of the delays in the settlement of the estate. It is therefore to make up for the omission of the mention of nullity in the event of the death of the contracting party that I propose this amendment to you. In fact, the buyer's death often causes the seller to regret the offer, given the complexity of the sale. I am not interested in the idea of a two-month deadline, but we want a deadline to be set, even if it varies depending on the case. It is better, in my opinion, than to rely on jurisprudence and its fluctuation, which is a source of legal uncertainty: once again, it does not correspond to our legal system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u100	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u101	I do not share your point of view, my dear colleague. In defending your amendment, you referred to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation. This is proof that you see jurisprudence as an important part of our legal system! Mention of a reasonable period of time for the judge to determine it by adapting the law to specific cases seems to me quite normal. All lawyers, in their conclusions, refer to case law, and judges are used to it. Therefore, resorting to case law does not at all call into question our legal system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u102	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u103	The notion of "reasonable delay," Huyghe, is also very common in our law. It applies in many areas, and I have not heard that it creates unpredictability. We are talking here about contracts which have varying levels of complexity and for which there is no point in providing for different deadlines. The judge will then be able to assess in all relevance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u104	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 4. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u105	It is a question of reintroducing the concept of the cause of the contract into the civil code – even if it is possible to think that the disappearance of this concept will be appreciated by the students in law, as it was complicated to understand and as its uses have evolved according to the jurisprudences... Although the functions of the concept of cause set out in the case law are enshrined in the order, it must be further recognized that, as a result of this concept, the limiting clauses of liability that deprive the essential obligation of the debtor of its substance may have been ruled out. Thus, the company Chronopost, in the 1990s, undertook to deliver folds in less than 48 hours but exempted itself by a clause to the contract from any penalty in case of non-compliance with the deadlines! Even more so, due to the concept of cause, contracts whose execution according to the economy desired by the parties was impossible could be cancelled for lack of cause. In short, the judge found in this concept a tool for regulating malleable and very rich contractual balances. Contract law is faced with situations that are evolving at the same time as society. It is therefore essential to maintain the concept of cause in our civil code, because it is a legal tool that has proven its ability to respond to these challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u107	I feel you nostalgic, dear colleague! From the notion of cause, we removed the elements that were difficult for law students, while keeping the essence. If the cause disappears formally, many of the traditional functions are preserved, and even consecrated. Articles 1128 and 1162 of the Civil Code specify that the validity of contracts is subject to a lawful and certain content and that the contract cannot derogate from public policy either by its stipulations or by its purpose, whether or not it has been known by all the contractors. Moreover, Article 1169 provides that the contract for consideration is void when, at the time of its formation, the agreed consideration for the benefit of the undertaking is derisory or illusory. Finally, Article 1170 enshrines the jurisprudence of the Chronopost and Faurecia judgments: any clause which deprives the debtor of its substance of the essential obligation is deemed to be unwritten. Thus, in the civil code, we will find a translation of the concept of cause without having to embarrass ourselves with its object, which is almost indefinable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u109	As the rapporteur has pointed out, the concept of cause has been removed, but all of its functions are now clearly enshrined in the Civil Code, which you do not fail to stress in the summary statement of your amendment. Beyond the attractiveness of our law, which was able to justify this development, the Government has, above all, wanted to respect an imperative of legal certainty. The concept of cause is not unitary: it may be a subjective cause, which encourages the search for the concrete purpose pursued by the parties, or an objective cause, which makes it possible to verify the existence of a counterpart to the undertaking. This concept was therefore the source of a very plentiful and highly fluctuating case law, where the courts regularly mixed the two approaches, without always being very clear. In the order, the choice was made to formally rule out the term, while taking care to devote, for greater predictability, the functions assigned to the cause by the case law, whether to monitor the lawfulness of the contract, the existence of a consideration or the very balance of the contract. The Government's choice thus meets the constitutionally guaranteed objective of intelligibility of the law without, however, removing the functions traditionally attached to the case, by giving the judge regulatory tools, in accordance with the various European projects which have adapted the reference to the content of the contract. Thus, the judge now has, with article 1170, which enshrines the Chronopost case law, a tool that makes it possible to prohibit any clause depriving of its substance of the essential obligation. With the introduction of the prohibition of unfair terms in the common contract law and the sanction of vice of violence by abuse of dependence, contractual justice is guaranteed. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment, failing which I will express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u110	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u111	I hear the arguments that the term would become useless, as long as the functions are consecrated. But I note that you are putting an end to a historical trend. However, contractual and legal competitiveness does not justify everything. To kill what might be like a jurisprudential construction seems untimely to me. We could leave it to history to mature this work. The notion of a case is, in particular, a significant contribution to the judge. We therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u112	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u113	We still need to hear the arguments that are being developed! You're saying, at the bottom of these ranks, it's a little complicated for law students? But finally, we all went through it, and we got out of it, didn't we? You also say that with globalization, we have to make things simpler. Simplicity at the risk of total blur! If we continue with this jurisprudence that you want to establish, we can also reduce the French language to 300 vocabulary words! Thus, students will find themselves there and foreigners will have more facilities to talk about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u114	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u115	Once again, our law is an intelligent, long and justified legal construction. The amendment I have tabled is intended to reintroduce the concept of an object, which also disappears, to the benefit of the vague expression of "content", which no one has been able to define so far. I don't like blur in the law – maybe because I was a lawyer and when you plead, you don't like to be faced with blurred texts? The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that the content of the contract must contain a certain object, i.e. the reciprocal existence of a counterparty to the obligation of the other party. I'm sorry to remind you that this is a major notion of our right. In the absence of a real consideration, the contract no longer has any subject-matter. I tell you: if you persist in this idea of modernity for modernity, of simplification which in reality complicates, you will provoke an explosion of disputes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u117	After nostalgia, Ostalgia? In any case, let me tell you that it is you who introduce a blur, and that the text is free of it. Certainly, article 1128 no longer mentions, among the conditions of validity of the contract, the cause and the object: these were notions difficult to define – that is where the blurry was! The order of 10 February 2016 incorporates the provisions of the Civil Code of 1804 relating to the subject matter of the contract by simplifying them and modernising them – and that is the current of thought in which we register! The concept of "object" has not disappeared from the Code and remains referred to in Article 1163, which provides that "the obligation is for the purpose of a benefit". The term is also used throughout the new legislation introduced by the order, whether it is the object of the obligation or the subject-matter of the contract. In so doing, the very coexistence of this variation is maintained, depending on whether the texts aim at a performance due – object of the obligation – or the overall objective pursued by the parties – object of the contract. Favourable to modernity, I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u119	Madam Member, I do not believe that at the bottom of these ranks we have alluded in any way to the difficulties students may experience in integrating the concept of cause: I think that the intellectual greed and agility of many of our students make it easy for them to understand the complexity of certain notions. On the other hand, the Government refers to the constitutional council's obligation of clarity and intelligibility. This seems to me to be a much more relevant legal concept. It is in connection with this objective of legal certainty, clarity and intelligibility that we have proposed to change these concepts. Article 1128 replaces the notions of "cause" and "object" of the contract, ignored by many foreign rights and not conducive to the intelligibility of our law, the notion of "content", used in European drafts for the harmonization of texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u120	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u121	Subsection 3, which includes sections 1162 to 1171, is specifically dedicated to the content of the contract. It is therefore not a vague notion, but rather a concept whose meaning and regime are expressly established by ten articles! The subject-matter of the obligation, which is more precise than that of the subject-matter of the contract, was retained in Article 1163. As for the requirement of actual consideration, it is expressly laid down in the provisions on the content of the contract in Article 1169. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u122	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u123	[[Murmures]] Legally formed contracts are used as a law for those who have done so. It is a founding principle of our contract law that is likely to be undermined by this reform. Indeed, this article is a small revolution in the law of French contracts: it enshrines the recognition in our legislation of what is called the theory of imprevision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u124	Madam Member, is that amendment No 12?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u125	No, it's not the right one. One everywhere, Madam Minister! The purpose of this amendment is to remove the concept of error of law introduced by this order. This is a new, apparently assumed example of the globalization of the law, to which we do not subscribe. Law is the primary instrument of national sovereignty, by which every people, every country, every nation can determine its own normative rules governing the life of its society. In recent years, however, the considerable and growing influence of American law on other rights, as a result of American economic power, has forced the introduction of Anglo-Saxon legal concepts into our law. The duty now seems to be seen as the ultimate barrier to the creation of a single global market. This is what the European Union has long understood by requiring Member States to harmonize the law by introducing the legal superiority of European standards over all national standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u127	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the "error of law". It would be wrong to deduce from the saying that "no one is supposed to ignore the law" that an error of law, that is, an error of a legal nature – as opposed to an error of fact – is always considered inexcusable. This adage only helps to prevent a person from taking the pretext of ignorance to avoid law enforcement. It does not prevent individual reports from requesting the annulment of a contract vitiated by a lack of knowledge of the applicable legal rules. That is why Article 1132 explicitly refers to the error of law. It does not appear appropriate to delete this entry. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u129	Section 1132, which you are referring to, the Member, merely transcribes the status of positive law, which recognizes the error of law as a defect of consent. The error of law arises from the lack of knowledge of a rule of law; However, as a mistake in fact, it causes the contract to be null and void only if it is not inexcusable. There is no question here of allowing any contractor to claim that he has disregarded the scope of a legal text, a case law or even his contractual commitment. Indeed, if the case-law admits the error of law, it has always made it an application measured by refusing it when it relates, for example, to a judicial decision made between other parties or to the effects that the contract must produce. This detailed interpretation of the error of law will not be called into question by the letter of Article 1132. Moreover, there is no infringement of the rule that "no one is supposed to ignore the law": the purpose of this maxim is to prohibit a citizen from invoking his ignorance of the law in order to prevent its application to him. It does not prevent, however, that, between private persons, the error of law can be taken into account in assessing the validity of a contract. I therefore conclude that your amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u130	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u131	Forgive me, ma'am, but it is quite the opposite: the error of law, a concept coming from Anglo-Saxon countries, is by definition totally unknown to our French law. France is a civilist country by nature: the notion of error of law does not exist, precisely because it conflicts with the saying "No one is supposed to ignore the law", to which you have referred. Because no one is supposed to ignore the law, the error of law does not exist: it goes exactly against this fundamental principle of our legal order. What's going to happen? The parties to a contract can invoke the error of law to lead to the nullity of the contract: I am sorry to say that this creates not security but a very serious legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u132	The committee has deleted Article 5. I have before me two amendments, Nos 15 and 22, to re-establish Article 5 and which may be subject to a joint debate. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u133	When we looked at the Senate text, the Law Commission deliberately wanted not to link the pre-contractual duty of information under section 1112-1 with the unwillingness of the law. Dolosive reluctance consists in knowingly retaining information that is known to be decisive for the other party, which, had it been known to the other party, would have led it not to contract or to contract on substantially different terms. Such unwillingness must be punished by the nullity of the contract, even in the absence of a breach of the pre-contractual duty of information. This choice is justified by the desire to punish bad faith more widely than mere negligence: the dol involving the intention to deceive, therefore it does not have to be framed within the same limits as the duty of information. The Commission is committed to the affirmation of the principle of good faith in contractual relations and the sanction of dolosive reluctance. I had made a commitment to you, Mr Huyghe, to remove the main difficulty that the disconnection between dol and duty of information can cause, by excluding the estimation of the value of the performance of the object of the dolosive reluctance. Like Article 1112-1, which expressly excludes from the duty of information the estimation of the value of the benefit, it seems consistent to include this exception also in the text on dolosive reluctance, especially since Article 1139 also provides for it and that this corresponds to a translation into the civil code of the famous Baldus judgment of the Court of Cassation. Such an exclusion from the nullity of the contract when silence relates only to the contractor's estimation of the value of the thing, and not to the essential qualities of the thing, makes it possible not to unduly penalise the life of the business and thus to be able to conclude at a price that would not have been the real price of the thing: this is the very object of many contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u134	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u135	We agreed, Mr rapporteur, during the debate in the Committee on Laws, to exclude the value of the elements that could constitute the dolosive reluctance. The value of a service is by its relative nature: it depends on the amount for which the supplier is willing to perform it and on the amount for which the customer is willing to pay it. Our two editorials are different. You propose to supplement Article 1137 of the Civil Code with a third paragraph excluding from the unwillingness to disclose to its contracting party its estimate of the value of the benefit. My wording seems simpler: it adds to the second paragraph of this article the words ", with the exception of information on the estimation of the value of the benefit. » Not only is this wording simpler, but it is also exhaustive, since it is not limited, as your amendment does, to estimating the value of the benefit. Indeed, "information on the estimation of the value of the service" may consist of different information, such as the cost of production or the cost of transport: various elements may contribute to the estimation of the value of the service, without constituting the value of the service itself. It seems to me better to adopt this wording, more complete than the one you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u137	I stick to the wording that I proposed, which is in line with the wording of Article 1112-1, which is written in almost equivalent terms. That is why I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u138	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u139	The Government fully agrees with the amendment that you have proposed, Mr. Rapporteur: it allows silence, even intentional, on the estimation of the value of the benefit to be excluded from the sanction of the dolce, as it is excluded from the duty of information. The case law is in this direction. It is common in business life for a party to silence its estimate of the value of the thing or of the performance, since of course there is no concealment of the very qualities of this thing. In this respect, this clarification allows the text to be brought into line with that on the duty of information, which provides for the same exclusion, and thus not to penalise trade. In essence, your wording strikes a balance between the way in which the calculation of the price is kept to oneself and the obligation in good faith, provided that the essential qualities are not misunderstood. I therefore express an opinion in favour of this amendment, the wording of which is preferable to that proposed by Mr Huyghe. For this reason, I agree with Amendment No 15 and, although we share the same objectives, I express an unfavourable opinion on Amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u140	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u141	I find it difficult to understand, Madam Keeper of the Seals: you do not really explain your preference for drafting the rapporteur's amendment. To come back to my explanation, Amendment No 22 is more complete, as it provides for a number of cases ignored by the rapporteur's amendment. I therefore do not understand this choice, unless it is due to the fact that Amendment No 15 comes from the rapporteur and Amendment No 22 from a member of the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u142	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u143	Returning to the principle referred to earlier, this amendment sets a time limit of two months for replying in the context of the interrogation proceedings opened in case of doubt as to the validity of the power of a treaty representative. It seems more appropriate to determine a specific time limit in the law than to leave it to the jurisprudence to do so, especially since the setting of a time limit in no way prevents the parties from determining another time limit by a clause to the contrary. In line with what I said earlier, rather than relying on case law, it is up to the legislator to make this decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u145	With regard to this action on the question of the ability to contract, which falls within the scope of Article 1158, and in line with what I have told you about the pact of preference of Article 1123, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u146	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No 23, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u147	In the same vein, it is a question of removing the requirement of normality in order to avoid any subjective assessment, which would give rise to litigation, and any confusion with other legal concepts, which could lead to a sanction. Once again, it is important not to leave to the case law to be prescriptive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u149	When we auditioned some law professors, including Professor Denis Mazeaud, it was recommended – I think it is a good recommendation – that we let the judge do the understanding and application of the texts, the judge having already done a great deal to inspire this reform. That is why I will make an unfavorable point of view. The provision that the protected minor or adult may perform ordinary acts authorized by law or by use, provided that they are "concluded under normal conditions", should not be deleted, as you propose in your amendment. The aim is to give the judge a detailed discretion in order to offer him the possibility, on a case-by-case and ad hoc basis, of invalidating an act which he considers insufficiently respectful of the interests of the protected person. I would also point out that the term "normal" refers to a well-known legal standard since it is used on several occasions in the Civil Code, in particular in Article 815-3 on the management of undivided assets, where reference is made, for example, to the "normal exploitation" of such assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u151	The opinion is also unfavourable. Article 1148 provides that any protected person "may nevertheless perform only the ordinary acts authorized by law or use, provided that they are concluded under normal conditions". The law of incapacity does not refer to these "normal conditions" for the conclusion of an act as it does not deal with the conditions for the validity of a current or customary act of management authorized by law or use, but only with the annulment or rescission of the irregular acts of disposition by the protected person alone. Article 1148, in relation to Articles 408 and 473, defines positively the acts which the protected person can perform alone and the conditions for their validity, which is currently lacking in the right of incapacity. It is not enough for an act to be common so that it can be performed by the incapable alone; It has to be agreed on under normal conditions. As the rapporteur has just pointed out, the use of the term "normal" is already known in the Civil Code: it refers in fact to a legal standard and is used for example in Articles 815-3, 1792-6 or 1873-6. Finally, this text only refers to the special texts – article 1149 for minors, article 435 for adults under safeguard of justice or article 465 on adults under guardianship – which provide that simple injury constitutes a cause of nullity of the ordinary acts concluded by a minor or a protected adult. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u152	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u153	It is not because a term or concept is already used in the civil code that one is obliged to subscribe to it: one can think that it is an error and avoid continuing to use it so that the conditions are more precisely defined. On the other hand, Mr Mazeaud, as well as Professor Mazeaud, we can always have a different opinion from his.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u154	I have before me three amendments, Nos 8, 13 and 25, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 8 and 13 are identical. I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u155	The purpose of this amendment is to restore the first paragraph of Article 8 in order to remove the power of revision of the contract entrusted to the judge on the initiative of one of the parties, under the new regime of imprevision provided for in Article 1195 of the Civil Code. This provision undermines the principle of the binding force of the contract which governs relations between the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u156	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u157	I started to mention it earlier, article 8 is making a small revolution in French contract law. It enshrines in our legislation the recognition of what is called the theory of unforeseeableness. The case law, so far, has never accepted the obligation for the parties or the judge to revise the contract in the event of unforeseeability. As usual, and in an assumed way, almost uncomplicated, you sacrifice to the obsession of harmonization. Indeed, this amendment is based on comparative law and, precisely, on European harmonisation projects. Although the imprevision regime is excluded for contracts relating to financial instruments, new section 1195, as a result of the order, will allow the judge to interfere with the contract, at the request of only one of the parties. For us who are deeply committed to the balance of the contractual relationship, this new intrusion by the judiciary is not acceptable. The purpose of our amendment is therefore to preserve the binding force of the contract while allowing the judge to adapt it to the margin in the event of an agreement between the two parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u158	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u159	I don't know if I should introduce him, Madam President. If Amendment No 8 were adopted, I would not need to defend this amendment as it would fall. Shouldn't we wait for the vote to see if I have to defend him?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u160	As Amendments Nos 8 and 25 are the subject of a joint discussion, they must be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u161	If you like. This is an amendment to the extraordinary case in which Amendment No 8 would not be adopted by the House. In order to strengthen contractual freedom, it is specified that the provision giving the judge the power to modify the contract is not of public policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u162	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u163	I confirm that Article 8 does not create any complex because it proposes harmonisation from the top by aligning the legislation on administrative jurisprudence – it already gave a power to review the judge in case of unforeseeableness. I therefore contest your willingness to abolish this power if it is justified on grounds of general interest. It allows for the restoration of the general economy of the contract desired by the parties. In case of disruption not accepted by them – we are talking about an accidental case – the judge can put an end to the contract. I would point out that this power of the judge exists in other countries of the European Union, such as Germany. Finally, the infringement of the binding force of the contract and the freedom of contract is very relative. You are proposing, Mr Huyghe, to clarify the supplementary nature of the provision. But I had the opportunity to point out earlier, in response to Mr Coquerel, that everything that is not imperative is by nature suppletive – indeed, many contracts are beginning to exclude this possibility. The suppletive nature of the provision therefore relativizes the power of the judge. As for the powers of the judge, they are strictly regulated by the principles of civil procedure. The judge is bound by the parties' requests: in order to obtain a review of the contract, they must still seek it. Finally, the risk of a revision of the contract is a lever to encourage the parties to negotiate. This leverage would disappear if we removed this power of constraint in the absence of balance and general economy of the contract as defined. The party that is the main beneficiary of the disruption would have no interest in renegotiating the contract. My opinion is therefore against both the removal of the judge's power of review and the clarification of the suppletive nature of the provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u165	Article 1195, which introduces the revision for imprevision in French contract law, is indeed one of the most emblematic provisions of the order that you are asked to ratify. France was one of the last countries in Europe not to accept the theory of unforeseeableness. The objective of this innovation is therefore to allow the restoration of the general economy of the contract intended by the parties, which would have been upset during execution by exceptional circumstances. It is not fair, in the name of the binding force of the contract, and because of a change of circumstances beyond their control and which they did not foresee, to maintain the parties in a contractual situation unbalanced by the will they had expressed at the time of the conclusion of the contract. This provision is, as the rapporteur has pointed out, largely derived from the administrative law to which this order has borrowed a number of concepts, in particular the error of law, which is a concept which is well known in administrative law, but also in private law. However, the possibility of revision of the contract in the event of unforeseeability is very limited. It is only a very exceptional derogation from the principle of the inviolability of the contract. First, the change in circumstances must have been unpredictable when the contract was concluded. Secondly, the performance of the contract must become excessively expensive, thus excluding the assumption of a single additional cost. Finally, the party aggrieved by the imbalance must not have contractually agreed to assume the risk of such a change of circumstances. This is therefore an exceptional derogation. The concerns arising from the power conferred on the judge seised by only one of the parties doubtless motivated your amendment. Again, however, the infringement of the binding force of the contract and the freedom of contract must be relativized. Indeed, article 1195 is a substitute for the wills, that is, the parties are free to rule out its application, in whole or in part, and to provide that they will all – or some – assume changes in circumstances affecting the balance of the contract. In addition, the powers of the judge are strictly regulated by the principles of civil procedure. The latter may not, of its own motion, revise the contract. It will, moreover, be bound by the parties' requests as to the subject matter of the application – revision or termination of the contract – and the terms of the review. Conditionalizing the review of the contract by the judge upon an application to that effect by all parties to the contract would considerably reduce the effectiveness of the text. Indeed, it is very unlikely that parties, who did not agree on the terms of the renegotiation of their contract, or even on the very need to renegotiate, will finally agree to entrust the review to the judge. It would then remain only the possibility of judicial avoidance of the contract while its revision would have allowed its continuation, which is certainly of more economic interest. Moreover, the power of judicial review increases the preventive role of the text, with the risk of a revision of the contract, or even of its annihilation, which should in principle prompt the parties to renegotiate and thus maintain the contract. With regard to compliance with the authorization, the Government was authorized to provide the parties with the possibility of "adapting their contracts in the event of unpredictable changes in circumstances". Only a literal reading, which would render meaningless the 6° of the article enabling the Government, makes it possible to conclude that the authorization is exceeded. Indeed, if the use of the plural to designate the parties implied that the revision for unforeseeability could be pronounced only with the agreement of all parties, the text of the authorization would be meaningless and of no use since, in application of the principle of contractual freedom, the parties could already revise the contract between them amicably. I therefore ask you to return to the original wording of article 1195 and to restore the possibility for only one party to the contract to request a review by the judge. That is why I am calling for all of these amendments to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u166	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u167	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have pointed out the problem posed by the review of the contract by the judge at the request of only one of the parties. I would have preferred to see the reverse logic applied: the parties could provide in the contract that in the event of an exceptional event, the judge can modify the contract, but only with their agreement. On the other hand, if they did not provide for it, the only option would be the termination of the contract decided by the judge and not its revision. My reasoning deals with the problem in the opposite direction to that of the text. It seems to me better not to impose on one of the parties the contract revised by the judge at the request of the other party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u168	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u169	This is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u170	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u171	This amendment relates to the provision which has been introduced with regard to the reduction of the price in the event of non-performance of the contract, which may be proposed by the creditor before being imposed unilaterally. In order to avoid delaying manoeuvres, it is specified that the price reduction must be notified "as soon as possible".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u173	This amendment improves the drafting of the text. I am therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u174	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No 26, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u175	This amendment clarifies the definition of the conditional obligation. Under new section 1304, the obligation is conditional when it depends on a "future and uncertain event". I propose to add to it the terms referred to in former Article 1181 to define the suspensive condition: "an event that has now arrived, but is still unknown to the parties". The hypothesis is very common, for example the pollution of a land that will only be revealed by an expertise yet to be realized. It therefore seems appropriate to clarify the situation by supplementing the new article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u177	It is true that former Article 1181 referred to this hypothesis, but that qualification was partly contradicted by the third paragraph of the article, which did not have all the consequences, as well as by the other texts relating to the suspensive condition which did not even raise the possibility of a resolutory condition of occurrence of the same type. Therefore, the majority opinion in the proceedings concerning the drafting of the order was to advocate the deletion of the reference. It can therefore be considered that if a contract is based on an essential condition which disappears a posteriori because of an event which has already occurred at the time of the conclusion of the contract but is still unknown to the parties, the Contracting Party may invoke the lapse of the contract provided for in Article 1186. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u179	The definition of the conditional obligation in Article 1304 is based on the current texts of the Civil Code and the majority doctrine. Conditional obligations are those that depend on a future and uncertain event, such as a sale made on condition that an administrative authorization or a non-pollution certificate is obtained. The event set up as a condition must therefore always be future. The letter of former article 1181 was ambiguous when it provided that the condition could relate to "an event currently occurring but still unknown to the parties". In fact, if the event established as a suspensive condition is already achieved, even if the parties were not aware of it, there is no conditional obligation. The commitment is then firm. If the authorization established as a suspensive condition was in fact already granted on the day of the sale without the knowledge of the parties, the sale is firm. The same applies if the certificate has already been returned. In fact, the last paragraph of former article 1181 went in that direction, since it provided that the obligation would take effect on the day on which it was entered into. If the condition is resolutory, the undertaking is unsuccessful if the event is already completed on the day of its conclusion. The doctrine is unanimous on this point. The order therefore merely clarified the rule of law. With this explanation, I would ask you, Mr President, to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u180	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u181	I maintain the amendment, because I fear that in practice we will encounter many problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u182	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 18, which adds an additional rule after Rule 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u183	The amendment is intended to codify the current case law, which prohibits a unfortunately common practice of offering debts to guarantee a debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u185	Article 1321 of the Civil Code relates to the assignment of a receivable, whereby a assigning creditor definitively transmits its claim(s) to an assignee. The order does not authorize the assignment of a receivable as security, which implies that the receivable may return to the assets of the assignor if the secured obligation is fulfilled. Such a mechanism falls within the scope of the law on security rights, which is regulated in Book IV of the Civil Code and therefore falls outside the scope of the reform. The case-law of the Court of Cassation, which prohibits the assignment of claims as security other than special texts, is therefore intended to be maintained. However, the Ministry of Justice is currently considering a reform of security rights law. To this end, the Directorate of Civil Affairs and the Seal mandated a commission chaired by Professor Michel Grimaldi, whose proposals were made public on the website of the Henri Capitant association. The consecration, in Book IV of the Civil Code, of the assignment of debt as security is part of these proposals. Positive law is therefore likely to evolve on this point in the short or medium term. With these explanations, I would ask you, Mr rapporteur, to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u186	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u187	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u188	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u189	We will vote for the ratification of the Order, as I announced in the general debate, but we regret that all our amendments have been rejected, even swept away. Only those from the majority or the rapporteur were selected. I see evidence of a lack of openness to the opposition's proposals. For at least one amendment, you could have made an exception, but the Rules of Procedure of the running Republic Group forbids its members to co-sign an amendment of the opposition. The Government does not act differently. That is a shame, especially since this text was not political at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u190	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-11-O1092.u191	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
