ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u1	The next item is the discussion of the 2017 amending finance bill (No.363, 365).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, there are easier Mondays than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u4	It depends on the weekends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u5	I have to say that this Monday, when we are going to discuss together an exceptional contribution for companies whose turnover exceeds EUR 1 billion, will not remain in my memory as the best I have had to pass as a political leader.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u6	It's a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u7	However, I am convinced that the decision that we propose to you today for your consideration is the right one, that it is the decision that is in the general interest of the French nation. I will not go back to the past; You all know the history of the dividend tax. You know that it had been put in place to both close the dispute over collective investment undertakings in transferable securities – UCITS –, find an additional resource for the State and distinguish between the results that were redistributed and those that were reinvested in the company. This tax was passed and then maintained despite the warnings of the European Commission. It was sanctioned by the Court of Justice of the European Union and definitively invalidated by the Constitutional Council decision of 6 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u8	Total!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u9	This decision obliges the State to repay EUR 10 billion. As a result, the Government, including its Prime Minister, and the President of the Republic had a difficult political choice to make. Would it be better to put the dust under the carpet, pretend that these 10 billion did not exist, postpone the refund of the tax? It would have been the easy solution, the wrong decision. This would have led to an increase in the public burden. This would have prevented us from holding the public accounts of the French nation properly, when that is precisely my primary responsibility as Minister of Finance and the Economy. In order for these accounts to be properly maintained, the remaining balances of the past must be settled. So we need to find a solution for this EUR 10 billion. A second solution would have been to postpone, to spread over time, to refer to the Greek calends the repayment of the EUR 10 billion by estimating that later would always be better than today. Difficult decisions are always better later than today, but to delay they are paid more expensively. In particular, the rate of interest on the repayment of these EUR 10 billion is 4.8%. I therefore consider that the solution which would have been to wait, to postpone the repayment, was absolutely not conceivable in view of the requirement of proper maintenance of the nation's accounts. The decision we have made and are submitting today for your approval is to bring this difficulty to an end as soon as possible. It consists of asking for an exceptional effort which, at the same time, will only concern those who can bear it, without calling into question the economic balance of the undertakings concerned. This effort will only concern companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion. It will not concern SMEs, TPEs or the most fragile enterprises. It will focus on profits, so by definition on companies with good results. It would have been easier for us to choose another way, such as the social contribution of solidarity of companies, the C3S, and to place the burden on all French companies, including those with very high turnover, but very low results. It would have been economically stupid, and dangerous for our businesses. We have therefore decided to concentrate this effort and this exceptional contribution on companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion and who are beneficiaries; Just over 300 companies will be involved. To be even fairer, we wanted to distinguish between companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion and those with a turnover of more than EUR 3 billion; Just over 100 companies are involved. For those with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion, the corporate tax rate will exceptionally be increased to 38.3% in 2017. For those with a turnover of more than EUR 3 billion and who by definition are beneficiaries, since they pay corporate tax, the rate of this tax will be exceptionally increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u10	It's not death!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u11	A smoothing was envisaged by the rapporteur-general. It seems to me a good suggestion, because it will prevent some companies from moving too sharply into the entry rate at 38.3%. I therefore welcome this proposal. I stress that this decision is exceptional. By definition, it is not intended to renew itself. However, it allows us to draw a line from the past and look with confidence towards the future. I would remind you that the trajectory of public finances remains unchanged, as do our ambitions to transform the country's taxation. What the Minister of Action and Public Accounts Gérald Darmanin and I have proposed for the quinquennium does not change a comma. The reduction in corporate tax remains on the path, remains our ambition. This will be increased from 33.3% today to 25% by 2022. In view of the EUR 5 billion claimed by the largest French companies, this decrease will cost the nation's public finances more than EUR 11 billion. The effort for companies, for all companies, is therefore well achieved. The effort to restore our economy's competitiveness and our companies' profitability to invest, innovate and create jobs remains the same. The single flat-rate levy of 30% on capital income, which you voted on a few days ago, which will allow us to develop access to capital to finance our businesses and finance the economy will be put in place under the conditions provided for. The decision to abolish the capital tax on securities in order to stimulate investment in our economy, to allow us to innovate, to have the best possible quality products to gain export market shares has been taken, and we will not come back to that. Let us not confuse an exceptional contribution made necessary by the circumstances with the trajectory of public finances and the determination to change the taxation that Gérald Darmanin and I defend on behalf of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. This decision will first, I said, make it possible to keep the public accounts properly. The French want the nation's accounts to be strictly kept; They're right. The French no longer support shipping, stuff, tax inventions; They're right. French and French companies want readability, simplicity and stability in tax matters; They're right, and that's what we're offering you by selling once and for all the accounts of the past. The decision we are proposing today will put public finances back on track and give our taxes back the simplicity, stability and efficiency they need. It will then enable us to fulfil our European commitments. We will remain below the 3% government deficit mark from 2017, and for the first time in ten years we can confidently look forward to France coming out of the excessive deficit procedure. I am well aware that, in the eyes of some, this is of no importance, that European commitments can be swept away by a turn of hands. It's not my opinion, it's not my conviction. It is not on such conceptions that the President of the Republic and the majority who sit here have been elected. We have been elected so that France can regain its credibility on the European scene, and the first condition for this is to respect its European commitments. When you sit on the European Council of Ministers and all the ministers sitting around you represent states that respect their commitments and keep their word, while France alone, last, isolated, fails to honour its commitments and remains under an excessive deficit procedure, this cannot work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u12	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u13	When you talk to the finance ministers of Portugal, Spain or Greece, whose countries have made considerable efforts to meet their European commitments, you feel that France cannot teach them the lesson by saying: "This is what is good for Europe but not for France; This is what is necessary for Europe but that France will never apply because we believe it is too difficult and too painful." Giving lessons to others without ever sweeping in front of his door, it doesn't work, it doesn't work anymore and that's not what we want to do! We want to regain credibility. We want France to regain its weight in Europe. We want it to find its first place and be able to guide European discussions. We want digital giants to be taxed; We will be able to do so if we respect our European commitments and if our words return to their weight. Thus, we obtained the amendment of the European directive on posted workers, because we had first begun to recover our European credibility thanks to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u14	It's inapplicable! Where's credibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u15	We want to better control foreign investment in strategic assets in France and Europe; We will only be able to do so if we are able to deliver on our commitments. We want to promote fair trade based on reciprocity rules. We want to have access to the same public procurement markets in China as those to which the Chinese have access in France or Europe. We will succeed in making the European Union evolve on these issues only if France regains its credibility and legitimacy by respecting its European commitments. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, the decision we propose to make today, however difficult it may be, is indispensable to ensure the power of the French nation. It depends on the proper conduct of its public accounts. It also depends on its ability to cope with, respond to, and resolve problems without delay. Finally, it depends on its ability to influence the European debate and to obtain decisions in line with our deepest ambitions and convictions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LC group]] That is why I am convinced, even if this Monday is a difficult day for all of us, that if you vote for the decisions that Minister Gérald Darmanin and I submit to you today, France will emerge stronger and more dignified!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u16	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u17	Mr President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on amending finance responds to a special and exceptional situation arising from the cost of the dividend tax litigation. This means that we must react quickly, unfortunately in time. I'll come back soon, after others, about what brings us here. The dividend tax was declared incompatible with the Mother-Daughter Directive by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 17 May 2017 and could no longer relate to the redistribution of dividends from European subsidiaries. The result was a down-to-down discrimination against other dividends resulting in a breakdown of equality censored by the Constitutional Council on 6 October. While the incompatibility of this tax with European law is clear today, it was not obvious when it was created in July 2012. If some of our colleagues, such as Gilles Carrez or Charles de Courson, had expressed reservations about his principle, no one in this House – and no more members of the Government – had raised the risk that it would contradict European law or the problem posed by the redistribution of dividends from a European subsidiary, as Gilles Carrez had the elegance of reminding him on Friday in committee. Some of our colleagues have criticized the rapporteur-general of the time, Christian Eckert, arguing that everything stems from an amendment he proposed. That's not true. The initial version of the text proposed by the Government did not seem more robust and the amendment presented by Christian Eckert was very well received by our Assembly, accepted by the Government and then voted by the Senate, which considered it more equitable and effective. This brief historical digression is intended to remind us that, in terms of law, things are not always certain in advance. But let's go back. The magnitude of censorship on 6 October, its immediate effect and the increasing volume of claims increased the amount of money to be repaid. This has increased from the amount foreseen in the draft law on public finance programming 2018-2022, to €5.7 billion, to €10 billion. Moreover, the immediate effect of censorship requires that companies be reimbursed as early as 2017. The Government plans to make repayments of €5 billion in 2017 and €5 billion in 2018. The solution of spreading repayments further would be detrimental to public finances because of the moratorium interest. The return of the government deficit below 3% of GDP and France's compliance with its European commitments, recalled at the moment by the Minister of Finance, would then be threatened. I have made a very concrete assessment of these commitments with our European partners at the Inter-Parliamentary Conference on Stability, Economic Coordination and Governance in the European Union held last week in Tallinn. The additional cost of litigation requires the urgent need for budgetary resources of the order of €5 billion from 2017. To deal with this, the Government proposes the introduction of two exceptional corporate tax contributions – IS – only due from the largest companies, with a turnover of more than €1 billion. They will bring in about €5.4 billion, of which €4.8 billion will come from 2017, allowing us to maintain a public deficit target of 2.9% of GDP by 2017, to meet our European commitments and exit the excessive deficit procedure. This also means that the State will bear the cost of reimbursement of the 3% tax at the level of approximately EUR 4.6 billion. The government deficit target for 2018 will thus be revised upwards by 0.2 percentage points of GDP, from 2.6% to 2.8%. The solution chosen by the Government, which had not been easy to adopt but demonstrated a strong sense of responsibility, was the most effective of all possible options. First, it is legally bounded. Since SI's surtaxes are well known, the principle of proposed new contributions and their payment methods, inspired by those of the 2011 Fillon surtax, are well marked. Second, the advance payment of 95% of the sums due on the payment of the last deposit from IS will enable the bulk of the tax revenue to be earned as early as 2017. The Government's text provides for an additional five-day payment period for companies whose fiscal year will be ended on 31 December 2017, extending the deadline to 20 December. Our commission will propose to extend the benefit of this additional period to all companies that will pay their last SI deposit on 15 December, i.e. those whose fiscal year will be closed no later than 19 February 2018. Thus, companies in the same situation will be treated in the same way. Third, in order not to penalise SMEs, ITEs and smaller or deficit firms, the new contributions will only be made to recipient companies – as they will be based on the IS – and to the largest companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion. They have the financial strength to cope with the effort required. Two hundred and nine companies, with an average profit of EUR 73 million, will be covered by the first contribution, and 109 others, with an average profit of EUR 412 million, will be covered by both. If I understand the reasons for initially considering a fixed ceiling, I welcome its disappearance, as it would have put the text at too great a constitutional risk. Two rates are therefore proposed, in order to smooth out the consequences of contributions. However, the threshold effects are likely to be significant, as indicated in the Gilles Carrez and Lise Magnier committee discussions. In this regard, we regret the speed with which the scheme will be developed, which will weigh very differently on two companies with similar situations depending on whether or not they exceed the thresholds. In order to correct this, we will propose an amendment that will smooth the entry into the system. I thank the Government, which has just voted, by the voice of Bruno Le Maire at the moment, in favour of this amendment. The debates in the committee on winning and losing companies were nourished. They are not illegitimate given the sums involved. There is no question of voting for a blindfolded text, regardless of its consequences for the actors concerned. I would like to point out that companies are generally winning, because the state pays about half of the cost of repayment, which is concentrated on the last decile of the richest companies. In any case, the question does not really arise in terms of winners and losers. Refunds are due; they are widening the deficit; We need to find budgetary means. In this regard, I would point out that the "Fillon surtax" weighed on businesses without any repayment being due to them and that the dividend tax did not apply to UCITS, whereas it was precisely their repayment that led to its creation. Lastly, the solution chosen by the Government had a final advantage: the contributions decided on would be ad hoc. They do not please anyone but are necessary. They are the best solution in that they enable the public balance to be maintained as of 2017, which would not have been the case if the Government had opted for a conversion of repayment to bond issues or for contributions at reduced rates but for two fiscal years. Finally, these contributions do not in any way call into question the Government's programme, supported by the majority, to reduce the burden on businesses, including social security contributions. The reduction of the SI rate to 25%, the transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – into premium reliefs with a double year in 2019, or the abolition of the higher wage tax rate, which will mainly benefit banking institutions, including mutual banks, will be sustainable. At the risk of being a little long, I would like, before concluding, to mention a point of method. While it is undeniable that our ability to assess needs to be considered, we must also reflect on how we do what we are elected for and why Parliament exists: the power to make the law. This great power implies a duty to do well, which is no less so. The episode that brings us together today must lead us to reflect on how we develop the law, including the tax law. In this regard, the time available is a decisive factor. I recall that 20 days elapsed between the tabling of the first part of the finance bill and its consideration in the Senate, during which twenty hours were devoted to its consideration in committee and to the consideration of several hundred amendments, some of which were not purely parliamentary initiatives, all on matters that are not the least technical and whose effects on the board may be quite significant. For several days now, we have been debating budgetary tasks and will examine on Thursday in committee the non-attached articles of the second part of the finance bill, this exceptional budgetary collective interspersing between the two. We will debate the non-attached articles of the second part of the finance bill at the sitting next week, when the traditional year-end collective budget is likely to be presented in committee, which, again, will probably leave us just 20 days before its debate in committee for hours of debate and the consideration of hundreds of amendments: in short, the urgency again! However, the amending finance bills – PLFR – often include, in addition to the necessary adjustments to the budget forecasts, provisions that are even more technical than those that make up the finance bills, thus potentially presenting more challenges. Why not incorporate these technical provisions into a tax law examined calmly in the spring instead of imposing the passage of a broom car at all speed? To illustrate my point, I will mention the many questions that I have asked the departments of the Ministry of Finance, sometimes as early as July: they have still not received an answer, which is still embarrassing since the first part of the finance bill has already been passed and the second part is under consideration! I am fully aware of the enormous burden on services, but this shows precisely the excessive nature of the fall concentration of budget texts: no time for services, no time for Parliament, no time for information exchange! As an additional illustration, I will mention the too high frequency of changes in the tax law and the high number of censorships, through priority issues of constitutionality – QPC – of tax arrangements often resulting from last-minute amendments without referral to the Council of State or time-limits allowing Parliament to assess their effects. A look on the other side of the Rhine, on a country that I know well, shows the parsimony and care with which the tax law can be modified: why would we not achieve it? If evaluation is very good and even necessary, better regulation would make it less imperative and more qualitative!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u19	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and LC groups]] To give Parliament more time is not to lose it, contrary to what can be thought of in some offices. This time is necessary. This is a time of democratic appropriation devoted to debate and exchange. It reinforces the legitimacy of the measures decided, without which they are ineffective. This is the lesson of 1776, resulting from taxation without representation! This is the lesson of 1789, placing the intervention of the fiscal legislator at the centre of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u21	This is a good rapporteur-general!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us take the problem with the right end, if I may say so, and on this point the President of our Assembly will agree with me: it is better to prevent than to heal. Let's legislate less, let's legislate better, let's evaluate more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u23	The rapporteur-general did not say if he was for the PLFR!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u24	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, at every crisis his new tax! It was true in the old world, it is always true in the new world. You want to settle the dividend tax dispute quickly so that it does not affect future fiscal years and you are right, ministers. You have decided to limit the repayment schedule to two years, with 5 billion euros in 2017 and 5 billion in 2018, to find the 10 billion missing. All right! But hurry, it's not the same thing as rushing! We are very surprised by the rapid deposit of this PLFR at all speed. You are mobilising Parliament almost in disaster, without delay, as the rapporteur-general pointed out, and without giving it the opportunity to analyse and amend the text properly. Of course, after the recovery plan in the face of the 2008 crisis or the support plan for Greece, this text is not the first dedicated amending finance bill. But this time, it is not clear why you did not use the amending finance bill that we will be considering in three weeks' time. In your opinion, the question of the budgetary balance did not allow us to wait. In reality, the receivables are definitively acquired and the amounts known: there was no justification for such a timetable. Faced with what you call a state scandal, you write the answer in a form of fiscal theatricality. I do not minimize the stakes; I also expect the report of the General Inspectorate of Finance to explain the chain of responsibility and to enlighten Parliament and the Government, so that this does not happen again. I'm just surprised at the method. The state has to repay 10 billion to companies, of which more than 1 billion is for interest on moratoria alone. The 4.8% rate, set by law, is close to wear and tear! In the economic situation we are experiencing, we could change this very excessive rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u26	We can change the law! We have tabled amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u27	These amendments have been rejected in the Finance Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u28	Besides, you knew the situation. You recalled earlier the history of this tax, Minister; In May 2017, we already knew where we were headed and many observers, such as Gilles Carrez, had pointed the risk to the finger. Why did you miss this point of foresight? Why didn't you anticipate this scenario as early as May 2017? You are putting Parliament in front of the fait accompli, asking it to go quickly, when the subject could be dealt with differently. Should we see a great instinct for communication? To repay businesses as quickly as possible, you have decided to create an exceptional contribution, with two thresholds, on corporate tax. 320 companies will be charged to repay the 5000 companies affected by the dividend tax. That's an unfair ratio! Many companies will be reimbursed less than what they will have to pay through this new tax, which is abnormal. The number of losing companies will be 223, 10 of which will be particularly so. As Gilles Carrez said, we need to know precisely which companies will be penalized by this tax. Indeed, we advance blindly. If companies – or associations of entrepreneurs – seem, or pretend, to be satisfied with it, you will agree with me that this is by no means satisfactory. Indeed, it is not necessarily companies benefiting from the largest reimbursements of the 3% tax that will have to pay the highest exceptional contributions. This story has an extraordinarily unfair side. Basically, the victim – the one who paid a tax that is now considered illegal – is charged another tax. Other companies, which were less concerned, will suffer greatly from this exceptional tax. Like many of you, ladies and gentlemen, I have received e-mails or e-mails denouncing certain situations. For example, a family business that had paid €1.1 million in dividend tax for 2016 and 2017, will have to pay €16 million in exceptional surtax, or 14 times the 3% tax! It is very difficult to explain this to companies. Where's the consistency? Where's tax equity? At the very least, it would be wise to smooth the levies on this tax over two years. If one wants to consider that there is a fable moral, one will conclude that the State always has a right to error, whereas it is very rare for companies and individuals to have one. From the moment you decided on such a collective budget, you had to take advantage of it to deal with the whole issue by presenting a package over two years, rather than just a partial solution. In 2018, the 5 billion will not be covered by companies. How are you going to do that? You explain that the government will charge the effort to the budget balance, with an increase in the deficit. You could also envisage that the remaining 5 billion would be financed by an effort of savings, or perhaps even by resources derived from growth. Indeed, with this growth, which benefits France as a whole, but which also serves the interests of the State, you inherit an exceptional economic situation. Beyond our questions about the budgetary balance for next year, we are particularly concerned about the image of France. This surcharge is a catastrophic message sent abroad. The choice of this exceptional contribution is, whatever you say, contradictory to the Government's choice to lower corporate taxes. On the one hand, you lower the tax, on the other, you increase it. You will say that this is a very timely response to a crisis. But who will believe you? You will explain that you want to reduce the tax burden on businesses, but not immediately, because there is still a problem to be solved? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What foreign investors will rightly understand is that in France taxation can be increased massively at the slightest blow of wind, that no one is immune from a blow of fiscal force. That's the message you're sending to investors around the world! I do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u29	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u30	Mr President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, in urgency and haste, the National Assembly is meeting today to find a parade against a EUR 10 billion hole in the budget. It is a huge amount of money that financial groups, multinationals demand, and that should therefore be taken into account. Although we are far from challenging all arbitrations, we nevertheless consider that this amending finance bill should be rejected as it stands. We would have many reasons to do so, but if only one is needed, the news has just provided us with it, and it is edifying. Admit that at the very moment of a new tax evasion scandal – to the tune of 350 billion euros – in which well-known multinationals, including French, are involved, our debate takes on a completely different dimension! There is really no urgency to repay 10 billion euros, including 1 billion interest, to companies that may be mentioned tomorrow in the Paradise Papers scandal. How can we not think of this possibility? Perhaps the same lawyers, champions of tax evasion and involved in this scandal, have led France to court! There are far too many shades, precipitation and scandalous scents in this 10 billion-dollar case to pay back. Starting with the calendar, largely precipitated for a long-term problem, latent since 2012, recurrent since the parliamentary re-entry. National representation, the parliamentarians we are, have become aware of this bill on Thursday, when we have not yet completed the review of the entire 2018 Finance Bill! The next day, Friday, the text passed into committee. It is Monday, and all Members are considering it. Yes, rapporteur-general, let's legislate less, let's legislate better! So we only had three days to examine a nicely qualified budget of Blitz, three days to return 10 billion to a few multinationals who refuse a modest tax of 3% on some 300 billion euros of dividends – excuse me for a little! This is, at the very least, an unprecedented timetable, which inevitably challenges us as to how parliamentarians can carry out their duties as legislators. Of course, Minister, we are aware of the financial issues. However, finding an answer to a 10 billion question deserves a little attention from the French! It is their money, it is the money of the largest multinationals, which distribute record amounts of dividends to their shareholders rather than invest them in the economy! We will perhaps learn in a few days that, among them, companies practice tax optimisation and avoid paying their taxes in France. These groups that refuse to participate in the nation's recovery effort include financial giants, including banks and insurance companies, such as BNP or Société Générale, which still have subsidiaries in tax havens. By wanting to go fast, you deprive the French of knowing all the elements of what may be tomorrow a new scandal entitled: "How they have robbed the state of 10 billion"! In your opinion, what can the French think of this general mobilization of the Government to repay 10 billion euros to large financial groups, to shareholders of CAC 40 companies, far from being in need? What a symbol, what a signal! Because what are we talking about? The famous 3% additional tax on dividends, implemented in 2012 shortly after François Hollande's victory in the presidential election, had two purposes. It was undoubtedly a budgetary logic, since it was intended to compensate for a loss of profits on a previous tax dispute, linked to withholding tax. This contribution, which was worth around €2 billion each year, was also based on a logic of social and economic justice. The ambition was clear: to reward companies choosing to invest, rather than to garnish the already well-filled pockets of shareholders. It was a good measure, which we had supported at the time, because France is sick of dividends, which large groups constantly prefer to the detriment of investments. For the past five years, in a context of crisis, our multinationals have been the undisputed champions of Europe in this field, with 300 billion paid to shareholders over the period. And we are already announcing a record year in 2017. The trajectory for our economy is uplifting. At the end of the 1980s, our companies distributed 30% of their profits in the form of dividends; the rest was reinvested or redistributed to employees. Today, we're close to 60%, the highest level of distribution. As a result, we have suffered decades of underinvestment. In the 1970s, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt rewarded us with this famous formula: "Today's profits are the investments of tomorrow and the jobs of the day. Closer to us, in 2009, President Nicolas Sarkozy communicated his own vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u31	[[Smile]] It's good to quote the great authors!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u32	"It's been a long time," he said, "that I think the three-thirds rule is a good rule. [...] Of the 100 profits, 33 should be returned to the employees, 33 should go directly into the shareholder's pocket and 33 should be used to reinvest in the company. Minister, I would like you to share with us your vision on this matter! All these words flew in front of the appetite of CAC 40 companies and the reality of today's financial capitalism. No, the cancer of our society is certainly not the assistance, it is the voraciousness to capture dividends at the expense of investment, thus the health of our national economy. This contribution of 3% on dividends was therefore in the right direction, that of tax justice, which encouraged its adoption. On the legal front, in 2012, the Constitutional Council had found no objection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u33	He didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u34	It was not to mention the zeal of the major French and European groups, always quick to defend their particular interests in the face of the general interest. Legal approaches and legal challenges have rapidly increased against the public authorities. Where is the famous civicism you're telling us so much about? Where is the economic patriotism that would have to be relied on to revive the economy? Finally, it is on an action brought against the French State by the French association of private companies, AFEP – in fact the MEDEF version CAC 40 –, backed by some ten multinationals, that the Court of Justice of the European Union found the additional contribution on dividends, incompatible with the mother-daughter directive, on the grounds of double taxation of income. Of which act. But how do you want our peoples to recognize themselves in this Europe that is so zealous to defend multinationals who, in every way, seek to escape tax! The mother-daughter directive, let's talk about it! It is precisely through the subsidiaries that the mechanisms of tax optimization are organised, as everyone knows. This is why a European Commission directive, dating back to June last year, requires multinationals to report publicly on a country-by-country basis. In other words, to publish information on their activities and the taxes they pay in each country. That was an important step forward. Unfortunately, MEPs, who are mostly liberal, have introduced an exception allowing companies not to publish their data, if they believe that this can be "commercially harmful to them". And that's how, with such an exception, big companies can continue to hide profits in tax havens and play with their subsidiaries, country by country. After more than a year of investigation into the Paradise papers, the journalists revealed how, legally, the law firm Appleby and its army of 470 tax officers had put themselves at the service of the global business elite to organize tax optimization. Everyone knows these practices, which cost Europe 1000 billion euros a year, our public finances. Where are the European Court of Justice's condemnations of aggressive tax policies by some states and their leaders? We're still waiting for them! All this seems ill-committed when we know that the European Commission is presided over by the one who organised the tax evasion to his country, to the detriment of his neighbours. It takes all the energy and firmness of the European Commissioner for Competition, the Danish Margrethe Vestager, to denounce the illegal aid paid by Luxembourg to Amazon. Mrs Vestager, who should be greeted here...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u35	I salute her!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u36	...has also announced that the European Commission will take the European Court of Justice of the European Union to attack Ireland, a country that has still not recovered from Apple the EUR 13 billion in unpaid taxes, as Brussels had ordered. We will see how quickly the Court of Justice will operate and what appeals Apple and Ireland will use. For our part, unfortunately, we see that the lobbies at work in the corridors of Parliament, the Council and the European Commission seem decisively powerful. But in the face of this wall of money, faced with the battalions of lawyers champions of tax optimisation, should we discourage ourselves and renounce the spirit of this tax? Should we stop encouraging those who invest? Should we refrain from adapting our tax system in order to make it incentive for what is beneficial to our society and dissuasive for what is harmful to it? No, and three times no! There is no question of giving up, especially after we learned on Thursday from the minister himself that these major financial groups are not asking for 5.7 billion, but 10 billion euros, of which 1 billion for interest alone! It's huge! It's a real holdup! These are the names of these bankers, those who sent us their tax specialists to bring France to court and claim 10 billion euros: the AFEP first of all, with Axa, Michelin, Danone, Engie, Eutelsat, LVMH, Sanofi, Suez Environnement, Technip, Total, Vivendi. It is 10 billion euros that France will have to repay, ruby on the nail, to groups that do not accept that it has taxed them, it must be recalled, 3% of the 300 billion euros of dividends so generously distributed over the last five years. And here they are, through the MEDEF, showing their teeth to recover what they believe to be a due, without leaving anything on the edge of the road. And that is what is imposed on us, since the decision of the Constitutional Council is more severe than that of the Court of Justice of the European Union, by obliging us to repay the entire tax, including interest. That is how we have moved from EUR 5 billion to EUR 10 billion in the space of a few days. In the face of this tax dispute, the scheme that you are proposing to us today, Minister, is as follows: to create an exceptional surtax on corporate tax, at the expense of the very large companies, which is expected to raise about EUR 5 billion this year. The remaining 5 billion would be borne by the French, through measures to save on public expenditure or by an additional deficit. It is a shame for our country where poverty is worsening, where society is faced with medical deserts, where millions of families are poorly housed. At the core, however, the idea of overtaxing corporate taxes for large groups is good. In fact, we proposed it, in the form of a turnover tax, during the discussion of the finance bill. You had rejected this amendment, but we will remain good players: a good initiative, even when it is taken over by others, remains a good initiative! That's why we're offering to keep it alive! This contribution, first of all exceptional, could then become a contribution of solidarity. In the second year, we could lower the rate from 15% to 7.5%, which we believe is a responsible and fair rate, in return for sustainability. That's the proposal we're making to you. This sustainability would have three advantages. It would replace the loss of revenue for the State resulting from the abolition of the additional contribution of 3 % – around 2 billion euros. It would avoid piloting tax optimization results and practices. Finally, it would make it possible not to make the French pay the note by releasing the 5 billion euros missing. Indeed, Minister, the draft budget that brings us together today meets only half of the objective. You stay in the middle of the ford, which is a very uncomfortable position, agree. In this way, EUR 5 billion remains to be found in order to settle this tax dispute. In committee last Thursday, you explained to us that these 5 billion would be financed from 2018 onwards by additional deficit. I am surprised by such comments, because this sudden tolerance of the deficit, when it comes to paying back the big groups, raises questions. What about the fuzzy argument of the "weight of the debt that would be imposed on future generations", moulted once heard in the budget discussions? What about the interest that the population will have to pay on this surplus deficit? Your choice reinforces the feeling of a double standard that is absolutely unfair in view of the efforts you are already imposing on our fellow citizens. How will you ask the French to gnaw on essential expenses when, at the same time, you multiply infinitely the gifts to the most wealthy and large groups? So, you're going to pay back those 10 billion, of which 5 billion will be paid directly by the French, when pensioners are hit hard by the rise in the CSG, without being exempt from the housing tax? Some retired couples will thus lose the equivalent of one month of net SMIC per year: it is now certain that this budget is not made for them. Worse, by asking them to pay, as early as 2018, the $5 billion to settle this dispute, you ask the French to finance the dividends of these major groups. Where will these 10 billion euros go? No one's fooled. Faced with such injustice, despite this blatant imbalance, the MEDEF, in an assumed indecency, continues to demand "its due", without imagining for a moment to contribute to the national effort. Minister, you have appealed to the civic sense of big companies to have your exceptional surtax accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u37	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u38	This momentum is slow to manifest. Moreover, to observe the lifting of shields of companies listed on the stock exchange, it seems that the expected citizen surge does not arrive soon. This is further proof that it is illusory to hope for some kind of elevator discharge – a "runoff", to use the consecrated expression – from those who will already receive so much. Should we remind them of the gifts they will find at Christmas at the foot of the tree? In this regard, information obtained by the Senate Finance Committee from your department is particularly instructive. It concerns the consequences of your measures for the most fortunate hundred and for our economy. According to this note from the Directorate-General of the Treasury, the single flat-rate levy – the PPU – will earn, for the first 100 taxpayers, €582380 per year. If we add to this generous measure the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, the gain amounts to 1.5 million euros, an amount higher than the ISF that they paid so far! That's not all. To measure the impact of these two reforms on our economy, the Treasury Board itself ran its computers and IT model "Mesange": a 0.5-point gain in GDP and the creation of only 50,000 jobs. It's written in all letters in the note. We thought we had already reached peaks of inefficiency with the 400,000 euros per job of the CICE, but, in this case, all the records are broken! These two reforms alone will therefore cost the budget €5 billion per year from 2019 onwards and €4.5 billion immediately, according to your projections. Other economists have estimated the flat tax cost at EUR 10 billion in the long term. Ministers, far from me the idea of making you a trial of intent, but acknowledge that you are making a sacred bet, a bold bet but one that will cost the French dearly, because you hope that these billions distributed to the richest and the financiers will naturally come back to the real economy. I sincerely would like this to work, for the French, for my country. But history has unfortunately shown that, without rules, human nature could be carried away by its most ugly defects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u39	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u40	Coupidity, individualism, each one for himself naturally prevails over solidarity, sharing and fraternity. The Paradise papers, with their EUR 350 billion hidden in offshore accounts, have reminded us of this since yesterday. We must exercise the utmost vigilance. Communist MEPs do not believe in your children's tale of a massive reinvestment of this money in the real economy. Who can still think that, as if by enchantment, the money hidden in tax havens will wisely resume the path of the motherland? Is it not, on the contrary, before the eyes, at this very moment, because of this new scandal, the proof that these big companies never give up anything, that they are ready to work their best battalions of tax lawyers to recover up to the last cent of euro, "to the last penny", as Michel Piccoli told the speculators, in the film Le Sucre.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u41	Good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u42	Sir has letters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u43	Let's not be naive. Let's stop making gifts without asking for anything in return, donating public money without ever asking for anything in return. If large companies, with billions of euros in dividends raised in a few years, can contribute 4.5 billion euros in a few days, they can do so every year! Beyond this aspect, the sustainability of the system is a guarantee of its effectiveness. Why, Minister? Because, in applying it, as you do, for a single year, in this case 2017, there is a concern that these major groups will conduct accounting arbitrations to minimize their contribution. The accounting services of major groups are most likely already at work to identify opportunities to minimize the amount to be paid to the State. We know, through the play of provisions or accounting writings, that it is feasible. We're not dealing with choir children. As politicians, we cannot be naive. That is the only argument that must convince us, ladies and gentlemen, to put the Government's proposal in time, over several years. Remind our fellow citizens that optimisation, fraud and tax evasion cost us between EUR 60 billion and EUR 80 billion each year, equivalent to our annual budget deficit. Panama Papers, Luxleaks and now Paradise Papers are all scandals that shock our fellow citizens. You can no longer afford words on these subjects. It is urgent for France and the countries concerned to act firmly, resolutely and with appropriate means. When will white-collar offenders and fraudsters finally be convicted, and firmly? When will Bercy's lock finally jump? When can we imagine – why not? – the creation of a Financial Security Council within the United Nations? If we want to maintain and develop our model of society, that is to say, to meet the real needs of our citizens in terms of health, housing, employment and education, it is vital to establish a fair tax system, whereby everyone – business as a citizen – contributes to the right proportion of their capacities. In addition to the sustainability of the contribution, we could consider extending it to companies with turnover in excess of EUR 500 million, which would allow us to provide the necessary resources to finance part of the remaining EUR 5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, there is still a major area of shadow in this matter which we have begun to address in committee and on which we expect explanations: the interests due. According to our estimates, out of the EUR 10 billion to be paid in connection with the 3% dividend contribution, interest amounts to EUR 1 billion: EUR 9 billion is due mainly and EUR 1 billion is due for interest, or 11% interest. At a time when interest rates are so low, this usury rate is a shame, a robbery, a scam, the break of the century for the big groups that, at that price, have made the best financial investment in the last twenty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u45	By agreeing to settle these interests without negotiation, without reviewing the conditions, the State would be hara-kiri in budgetary terms. One billion euros: how many hospitals could we build with this amount? At a minimum, we therefore propose a moratorium on the payment of interest until the balance of the budget is restored. On the other hand, an investigation, in which parliamentarians would be involved, must be conducted to understand how we have led to such a situation and to draw lessons from it, particularly from the legal point of view. Finally, Minister, if you choose not to perpetuate the tax, you have another possibility to get out of this crisis without making the French pay the mark: postpone the implementation of the removal of the ISF and the single flat-rate levy to 2019. You would find the 5 billion euros that are missing from 2018. Yes, Mr.Minister, as in his greatest hours, when our country is on the brink of the abyss and has to find springs to recover, it can take such steps. The French would certainly be proud of a government that would have the courage to tackle inequalities and the money wall. Perennializing the new tax to put it at the service of the general interest or postponing the abolition of the ISF and the flat tax, these are the choices available to us. These are coherent, fair and modern solutions, for the civicism of these major groups can only be exceptional. On the other hand, putting the burden of 5 billion by our fellow citizens would be a real scandal. They would be the big losers again. For all these reasons, to take the time to know the identity of the multinationals who demand the repayment of the 10 billion with interest, to avoid charging half of the note to the French and to shed light on this billion euros of interest that France should pay, the Communist and Republican deputies ask you to withdraw this bill of amending finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u46	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. The next speaker is Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u47	The REM Group will vote against the motion for rejection. My dear colleague, we are surprised in more than one way by your argument. Let me remind you first of all that in France the Constitutional Council is independent. It is not a question of "stealing", to use your expression, but of respect for the Constitution. In a more political way, I'm a little surprised that you didn't vote for this tax. I thought that the GDR Group would very favourably welcome a surcharge that concerns the largest companies. Indeed, this tax – you have partly recognized this virtue – is a solid and secure tool. We are not the first to use it – Dominique Strauss-Kahn for the left and François Fillon for the right in 2011 did it before us. We are not inventing a tool, which provides guarantees of its security. Secondly, it is a measure of general interest, and you will easily recognise it. Here I would like to greet some business leaders, including Thierry Breton, President and CEO of Atos, who, while admitting not to pay this tax of cheerfulness of heart, acknowledged its usefulness for our country. Finally, this measure is fair and fair: it is fair because, by overtaxing corporate taxes, we avoid putting companies – and therefore their employees – in difficulty, whose profitability and sound financial health would not be sufficient; It is fair because we charge the most wealthy companies to allow 5000 companies to benefit from the refund. And we're planning two 15% tranches. For all these reasons, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u48	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u49	The MODEM Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. I'm surprised by the arguments you're developing. You are resuming the debate on the first part of the 2018 Finance Act, which was passed at first reading. You are advocating the sustainability of the surtax, which seems to me out of the question. The measure is brave, I will return to it. It is exceptional, but it is not neutral – the corporate tax rate for large companies is important. It goes in the right direction and corrects an inconsistency. I do not go back to the decision of the Constitutional Council: of which act. For all these reasons, and in particular because your arguments go beyond the subject before us today, the MODEM Group will not vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u50	Mr Charles de Courson spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u51	Mr Roussel's speech was interesting, but worrying. It was interesting because it criticized the Government for not going far enough in raising the corporate tax rate. It proposed to make permanent the considerable increase proposed by the Government, even though all European countries are lowering their rates, at levels far below ours – I would remind you, Mr Roussel, that France has the highest rate in the European Union, at 33%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u52	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u53	Some will welcome this, but those who see a little further than the tip of their noses know that companies are not only thinking in a national context, they are international.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u54	We are not able to do this, we are not as intelligent as you! Besides, we don't even have a nose!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u55	For people who have militated for internationalism, your retreat to the Nation and your conception of the economy closed on itself are confusing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u56	It is the nobility that will explain internationalism to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u57	Your speech is worrying, because I thought first of all that you were going to vote on the bill, and this wonderful step, down from what all other European countries are doing, which you were even suggesting to be sustainable. At the end of your speech, however, you ask for the rejection of the text on the grounds that it does not go far enough. You will admit that the intellectual exercise is a little complicated. We wish to discuss the substance. That is why we will vote against the rejection of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u58	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u59	Minister, this motion has the merit of pointing out the lack of specific data. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we were many to question you on this point. As you told us, 223 companies are losing, and 95 winners. But you also announced that you would make the amounts known – it is assumed that the gains and losses are concentrated on some, some being very winning, others very losing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u60	They're not the ones you think they are!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u61	I don't believe anything, Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u62	We receive letters about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u63	You're the one who gets letters, but I should be the one who believes? I don't believe anything. Minister, this motion has the merit of asking the question of the sums, in millions or billions of euros, that the losers and the winners recover. It would be interesting if you could clarify them before we begin the review of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u64	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u65	We are going to vote on the motion, not because we think it would be excessive, but because it is insufficient. We have no other means. We believe that it is up to the big companies to pay the whole slate, not just part of it. Putting the rest on the back of the taxpayer and the households seems absolutely unfair to us. Mr Le Maire, you know my old age: I have therefore experienced the blessed period during which corporate tax rose to 43%...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u66	Even 50%!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u67	... and distinguished dividends and reinvested profits. All of this has gone away and we are here to shed big tears because the rate will be 33 per cent, in addition to that, on an exceptional basis. Frankly! And there's still some to cry about! What is the starting point of this story? A decision of the Constitutional Council which itself is subject to bail. Since when do we have to fall on our knees because the Council has spoken? The Council is only a human assembly. For those who want to change the Constitution, we need to think about changing that council. The Council stated that the legislator's decision – the performance objective pursued – did not in itself constitute a ground of general interest. The fact that taxes compensate for shortfalls in the state budget is therefore not a sufficient reason? But then what is tax? Is not the tax itself an absolute injustice? All of this doesn't stand up. We are aligning ourselves from the bottom with European taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u68	Long live Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u69	And when do we do it? The day we learn that tax evasion reigns in the world, that it is consubstantial to capitalism of our time. We therefore vote on this motion to reject, pending receipt of our arguments to request referral back to committee. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As for you, Mr. de Courson, remember that we are in a better position than you to comment on internationalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u70	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u71	And Mr. Darmanin is leaving!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u72	Mr. Roussel said everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u73	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, everything in this amending finance bill is a lesson: its causes, the social belonging of those responsible for it, the method proposed to us to remedy it, its consequences for the Nation sum up very precisely what we no longer want and, in essence, what we denounce in your budget for the hyperrich. If adopted, this text would become the chronicle of an announced scandal. Let's start with the causes. The purpose of the European Council Directive of 30 November 2011, known as the Mother-daughter Directive, is, inter alia, to exempt dividends and other profits distributed by subsidiaries to their parent companies from withholding tax and to eliminate double taxation of such income at the parent company level. I translate: if you are a subsidiary in France of a group domiciled in Luxembourg, Ireland or elsewhere, you cannot see your profits taxed at source – hence the dividends – generated by your business in France, on the pretext that they will then be taxed in the country of the parent company. This is clearly the advantage if the parent company is located in a country that offers tax advantages for capital profits. This is even the aim: the directive was designed to minimise the taxation of capital in the name of free and undistorted competition. It is part of these mechanisms on which major groups rely to make tax optimisation within the European Union. We remember Google's recent example that, on the basis of these various legal tricks, an administrative court exempted from paying 1.115 billion tax arrears claimed by the tax authorities. At the time the Paradise papers are revealed, it must be remembered that the legal cheating that is tax optimisation costs France 20 billion at the bottom, which is in addition to the 80 billion of the escape itself, against which you are not trying anything, not even to blow up Bercy's lock. This is one of the black holes that capital places on the nation. Let's go back to the directive. In essence, it is to the taxation of capital what the directive on posted workers is to the exploitation of labour. In the case of posted workers, social contributions from the country of origin are applied; In the case of the mother-daughter directive, it is taxation on the profits of the country of origin. In both cases, it is the same people who benefit from this internal dumping. Should we recall that this directive derives directly from the Treaty of Lisbon, which is none other than the European Constitutional Treaty rejected mainly by the French people and again introduced through the Congress window that Nicolas Sarkozy gathered in Versailles in 2007? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the first lesson: not only is tax harmonisation in the European Union not on the agenda, but the European treaties lead exactly the opposite way. The premium is at a lower so-called tax to the advantage of shareholders and to the detriment of state revenues. Those who claim the opposite are either naive or lucid hypocrites, some of what they do. Thus – to respond to your introduction, Minister – they organize the impotence of the states. Let us remain on the relationship between the European Union and the peoples. Do you think that many of our fellow citizens knew that a rule prevented capital from being taxed at source on subsidiaries working on our soil? This is a basic principle of the current European construction: its opacity. We have seen it for the negotiations on TAFTA – Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement – or CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement: it is never our governments or the Commission, a fortiori, that propose, defend, explain the bad blows prepared in the shadows, but rather associations, unions, citizens, sometimes parliamentarians, who reveal the harm. Opacity is the golden rule of the European Commission and more broadly of all its institutions. Treaties are adopted without the agreement of the people – the Lisbon Treaty, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance, more recently the CETA – and sometimes against its opinion. The resulting directives and regulations are decided in the secrecy of the Brussels administration, with the perfect complicity and hypocrisy of those who have governed us for years. Some of these accomplices still rule the country. We'll get back to it. Some, who participated in the decisions, are sitting on the benches of the Assembly. All these mechanisms are an integral part of Community law, which, in reality, now takes precedence over that of the States, to the point that the French parliamentarians are not only obliged to respect the golden rule in order to scaffold the nation's budget, but find themselves voting urgently on a plan of amending finance law of 10 billion in the name of a directive which none of their voters knew existed before that time. Let us recall article 55 of our Constitution: "Treaties or agreements which are regularly ratified or approved have, as soon as they are published, a higher authority than those of laws, subject, for each agreement or treaty, to its application by the other party. This has led the Constitutional Council to consider that the transposition into domestic law of a Community directive is the result of a constitutional requirement which could only be obstructed by an express contrary provision of the Constitution. There is therefore a second lesson to be drawn from this case: how can we accept that the European treaties, a framework of Community law superior to national law, can be adopted without genuine debate and without the direct consent of the peoples by referendum? This is yet another demonstration of the disastrous circumvention of the sovereignty of peoples. This case proves it: the treaties have become a constitutional straitjacket without anyone really bragging about it. It is for this reason – another answer I wanted to give you, Minister – that no European construction can be built without a return to this primacy and a departure from these treaties. Let's move on to a final lesson on the causes. In the final instance, the Constitutional Council decided to cancel the whole 3% tax. When questioned by the Council of State, the European Court of Justice has only retold the tax on dividends received from a subsidiary established in the European Union. But, of course, other types of dividends, including those from subsidiaries established in France or in States outside the European Union, were still subject to them. The Constitutional Council considered that this difference in situation did not recognize the "principles of equality before the law and before public office" and was "contrary to the Constitution". Therefore, considering that not all subsidiaries were on an equal footing with the tax from the moment when only those belonging to a parent company domiciled in the European Union were exempt, he held that the tax was contrary to the Constitution and therefore censored the rest of the tax. So here's the third lesson: Here, the equality invoked applies from the bottom. The logic of this tax dumping in the European Union leads to a levelling down in each Member State. Here again, capital is the great winner. The attached lesson to be drawn from all this is that, in the name of this equality before the tax, it will be complicated for the Constitutional Council, when we call it, not to cancel the de facto disappearance of the ISF for movable property, since its retention for real property alone results de facto in a breach of equality between the richest. Let's go now to those responsible. The Association of Private Enterprises and 17 companies filed complaints against the Ministry. They preferred the interest of their shareholders to the general interest, because, if the amending finance bill is passed, these 10 billion will weigh heavily on the Nation. After all, they had the choice to file a complaint or not to do so. Once the tax was cancelled, they also had to ask whether or not to refund it, or – why not – to negotiate with the State. Didn't they indeed receive billions of euros from all of us, from the Nation, under the CICE between 2013 and 2016? Do we want a few numbers? Axa received EUR 60 million, Safran 150 million, Orange 380 million, Total 110 million, Sanofi 50 million. In 2016, did CAC 40 companies not distribute €55.7 billion in dividends and share buybacks? The 17 groups that now claim against the French State alone account for more than 50% of the dividends paid. Will they not also receive, thanks to you, Minister, and to the Government, a good share of at least 9 billion as you are about to take away revenues from the state to give them to the richest of our shareholders, through the abolition of the ISF or the introduction of the flat tax? And now you're asking us to pay back ten billion more for the sitting! This is the fourth lesson of things. The engine of financial capitalism does not obey a moral, nor the general interest of the homeland, nor even an entrepreneurial interest. He has a nose on the short-termism of financial markets and is only looking for the best way to feed an income that has become insatiable. What is happening here again reveals the game of fools in which your policy drives the country. In your 2018 finance bill, you're about to give the same $9 billion to turn that saved capital into productive investment – without any conditions or constraints, should we recall that? These are the ones who give you their answer before you even sign this blank check. It's "Don't touch the grisbi, bring more money"! What have they negotiated, for example, proposing that these 10 billion be paid directly to SMEs or to the Public Investment Bank? This would have offered them an opportunity to make up for it, as they promised to create 1 million jobs in exchange for the CICE. But, instead of taking this opportunity to prove that the financial gifts they received would fuel the real economy, Mr Thibault Lanxade, Vice-President of the MEDEF, is already opposed to the part you intend to make the biggest companies pay by a temporary increase in their corporate tax. He would probably see with a better eye that we go get those 5 billion by lowering the LPA – the personalized housing aid – by 80 euros per tenant. All this proves that we will only have our eyes to mourn – at best – your naivety or – at worst – your complicity, when you have thus squandered for their benefit these 9 billion additional tax gifts. It should also be noted that this tax has proved to be an excellent investment. Not only does the cumulation of sums paid amount to $8.7 billion, but interest must be added to the legal rate of 0.4% per month – the interest rate at which France borrows on the markets in one year – to reach the round rate of 4.8% per year. The law lays down this rate of interest moratorium in the event of disputes leading to a refund. Again, why such a decision coming from whom, voted by whom? The complainants do not have to complain. In this case, they will earn 1 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u74	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u75	A fifth lesson follows, in the form of a question. I know that the General Inspectorate of Finance is currently investigating who is responsible for this fiasco. She would be interested in Messrs. Sapin, Eckert, Moscovici and François Hollande. Frankly, I am surprised that Emmanuel Macron's name is not mentioned, since he was Assistant Secretary General of the Élysée responsible, in particular, for all budgetary, fiscal and economic matters, when this tax was introduced under the Ayrault government in 2012. As Minister of Economy, he maintained the tax. In such a position, could he ignore that there would be remedies on the part of the employer?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u76	We still don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u77	In my opinion, to ask the question is to answer it. My question goes further. Knowing that AFEP and the 17 companies did not file their application with the Council of State until 22 April and 27 May 2016, four years after the entry into force, on 16 August 2012, of the additional tax, that the complainants have an army of lawyers who know by heart the texts of the European directives and the laws – which they often inspire – and that, in the end, this tax will have proved to be an excellent investment, would it not be good for the General Inspectorate of Finance also to examine more closely the conditions under which what has taken place, to date, is more and more like a state scandal?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u78	Mr. Mayor, you promised us answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u79	Let us now look at the methods that you propose to us to remedy this, and first of all the speed of repair. The 10 billion are returned almost as fast as they were requested. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The ink of the Prime Minister's signature was barely dry that, after the Council of Ministers, the Finance Committee met to read the bill, which it adopted the next day. And here we are today in the Chamber. We are told that we need to move quickly, but there are many texts of important legislative value that do not achieve the same success. Thus, associations are still waiting for the full implementation of the Disability Act of 2005. How many local authorities claim in vain the sums corresponding to transfers of powers not financed by the State, i.e. 1 billion for the Ile-de-France regional council alone? I am also thinking of the GM&amp;S employees who have been vilipped live by the President of the Republic on a large television channel because they dared to claim extra-legal compensation for being thrown out of the street after decades of good service. Together, these allowances would have reached EUR 4.6 million. A drop of water compared to 10 billion! Finally, it should be noted that many of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the demands of the Union are not equally successful either. I shall cite only one example, among dozens. On 13 June 2013, France was condemned by the European Court and sanctioned by the Union for its policy of protecting water against nitrate pollution. We are still waiting for the slightest measure of implementation of this judgment. I therefore come to my sixth lesson: in order to demand reparation from the Government and the application of European directives, it is better to be a lobby of rich capital holders than environmental associations, trade unions or citizens. This European construction is decidedly weak with the strong, hard with the weak. Let us now consider the means of reimbursement. You propose two sources: the first is an exceptional corporate tax on larger companies; The second, to the tune of $5 billion, will be based on the entire community. Indeed, we are called upon to see the nation's deficit widen by an additional 0.2% to pay half of that $10 billion. This is, in fact, the only way you were considering, Mr. Le Maire, when it was estimated that the repayment would not exceed $5 billion. This leads us to a seventh lesson: where the social emergency does not find thanks to your eyes when it would involve an additional public expenditure, on the other hand, as soon as capital is in danger, or simply demanding, we no longer count the money. This happened with the explosion of the debt, following the 2008 financial crisis, to socialise the losses of the banks and to bail them out by the public debt; This is happening again today, since you want to increase the country's deficit to ensure half the repayment of the 10 billion. In fact, you cannot be blamed for this: you are consistent with yourself and your PLF. The solution that you are advocating follows the same logic, namely to distribute 9 billion tax gifts to the richest, and to compensate for this expenditure, in order to respect the sacrosanct European golden rule, by a reduction of 15 billion public expenditure, which we are all going to suffer. By way of example, this 0.2% additional deficit called to repay 5 billion to the richest, could serve us both not to weaken the local authorities this year – while you intend to take them 2.6 billion – and not to lower the APLs, being reminded that you have decided to place 1.8 billion at the expense of the most disadvantaged tenants. We have other solutions to offer, which, at least, all have the advantage of making the plaintiffs pay the bill – because, if the law is for them, virtue is not. In fact, it has been years since they have had a lot of fun with the wealth produced by all those who, ultimately, through their work, pay their profits. The financial mammoth does not deserve the Nation to pay, again, to fatten it a little more. The first solution, which you will find in our amendments, is to double the corporate tax on the largest companies. Given the hundreds of billions that they have taken in a few years – as the dividends paid attest – they will have a lot of money to pay and, at least, the operation will be almost zero for the Nation's accounts. The alternative is to keep your $5 billion corporate tax tax and add to the cash register the elimination of the disappearance of the ISF on movable property – which would represent a resource of $3.5 billion – and the cancellation of the flat tax, for a total gain of $5 billion. We will reach 10 billions without difficulty. By doing so, you may avoid problems in the future. Indeed, everything indicates that the flat tax will cost much more than expected. In fact, you calculated your $1.5 billion based on the current stock of dividends. But economist Gabriel Zucman has shown since then that it will cost us much more; Indeed, those who today pay themselves by fees or wages, obviously have the advantage of paying themselves by dividends, since the taxation of the latter will be capped at 30%. This leads to a budget which I do not hesitate to describe as insinuating, which you will have to fill the deficit in order to comply with the famous Community rule of 3%. This may result in a future amending finance bill in August 2018, which we will suffer as much as we are looking at. I recall the content of our two solutions, which are easy to implement: first possibility, you double the corporate tax; Second option, you retain the 5 billion corporate tax and cancel the removal of the ISF on movable property and the introduction of the flat tax. It would also prevent you from making a bigger mistake. Indeed, how can we not understand that this double standards policy is not sustainable in a country with 9 million poor, 4 million poorly housed, 9.2 % unemployed and in which the median income is only 1,800 euros? The numbers of profits and tax gifts are so dizzying that we tend to lose sight of their real size and their impact on the economy. I remember, for my part, a demonstration, a few days ago, of people asking you to come back on the decline of the APLs. There was a tenant among them who explained that the disappearance of the 5 euros, of which you intend to save, marked the transition from a life which was certainly very difficult to a situation of survival. How many of these five euro banknotes are distributed to those who already have so much? Until what accumulation of wealth does it take to feed this ruthless minotaur? What's your point in serving him more and more? Finally, do these astronomical figures not end up shaking you, ladies and gentlemen? What's the point of feeding this crazy machine? Other solutions exist, which we want to share with you, since we are sharing. Let us imagine that, not only did you want to weigh those 10 billion on those who complain, but also that you intended to compensate for the loss for the state budget of the 2 billion that resulted from the abolition of this dividend tax. Thanks to our recently presented counter-budget, we can bring the equivalent of these sums, if not more, into the State funds, by means of measures such as the introduction of a high-luxury VAT of 33 % – which would represent a resource of 5 billion – a strengthening of the ISF, coupled with the introduction of a maximum inheritance of more than 33 million euros – which would only affect 0.01 % of households but would bring about 3 billion – or the creation of a tax on intraday financial transactions of 1.5 billion. We have 33 billion at your service, listed in our counter-budget, which would finance the equivalent of current expenditure and meet the urgent needs of the French in terms of health, housing, employment, education or higher education, to name but a few. In addition, this would give taxation its full redistributive value, which is the basis of republican consent to tax. The solutions we propose are based first and foremost on an ecological bifurcation of society. In this regard, the only debt you should mention is the ecological debt, left to future generations, which could lead to the bequeathing of an invivable Earth, not that financial debt that you keep telling us about. Indeed, the latter is largely bearable by our country and can, in any case, be erased by means of a political tool at the service of our project, namely a different monetary policy. Our solutions also reflect another way of looking at the economy, which aims to set in motion a virtuous circle. In this regard, it should be noted that EUR 1 million invested in public expenditure, in investment, contributes 1.4 billion to the economy. We propose to launch a major investment plan for building and social housing, but also to launch an economic policy based on wealth sharing. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept the European treaties on which this directive is based, the logic of competition, tax dumping and, ultimately, the weakening of the economic, social and redistributive functions of the States. When we govern France, we will refuse to submit to it, while starting negotiations with the Member States, which will have as their starting point the exit of the Treaties. Unfortunately for the country, we are not here, since you govern. So our response to your amending finance bill is to find the best way to remedy the cancellation and refund of the dividend tax. We propose a simple principle: while it is regrettable that polluters pollute, at least let them be the payers. In other words, to finance to pay what it requires us to grant it. That is not what you are proposing in this bill of amending finance, obviously scaffolded, ministers, in panic and unpreparation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we call on you to vote on this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u80	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u82	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u83	We shall vote to refer this text back to committee for a number of reasons. First of all, because of the unpreparedness of this PLFR: that has been said, we have not had time to adequately understand what is ahead of us. Moreover, the scandal of tax evasion and optimisation, which broke out yesterday, would involve French multinationals. It is therefore important to see more clearly about a tax that relates to the relations between multinationals and their subsidiaries; We need to know exactly what we're dealing with. Moreover, even if the measure you are proposing to us is fair – because it is exceptional and stops in the middle of the ford, we cannot vote on it, since you ask that the French pay half of the mark, that is to say 5 billion euros. That is what we cannot accept. I have been criticized earlier for discussing the finance bill again, but it must be noted that, while this last text has not yet been adopted, we are already proposing to increase the French's bill by asking them to participate, to the tune of EUR 5 billion, in the reimbursement of these large multinationals. That is what is deeply unjust for us. That is why we are asking for this text to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u84	Mrs Cendra Motin, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u85	Why do we want to vote against this motion for referral to committee and defend this PLFR, and not another? Firstly, because it proposes a reliable tax solution, something that has already been tested, a legally secure measure. That is precisely what was missing from the previous dividend tax. It is neither an improvised solution nor a hasty measure, but it is a sure device, which, as we know, will not be censored. Secondly, we are defending this PLFR because it proposes an exceptional solution, which will not be permanent, an additional tax which will last only one year. This is important, because our project, our 2018 PLF, is primarily based on the release of companies, on their ability to invest, to be less suffocated by the taxes that weigh on them today. This exceptional character, which is very clearly stated in this amending finance bill for 2017, is important. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Thirdly, this solution will enable us to fulfil our European commitments. We forget too much to say, it seems to me, today: we are pursuing an important goal, namely to remain below the 3% public deficit as of 2017 – and therefore, of course, in 2018. The solution proposed will enable us to achieve this objective, which is essential to us. Indeed, we now find our place in Europe, we are able to move forward with projects – for example, the posted workers directive or the solution found on GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. All of this is moving forward because France has again become an engine and, in order for it to remain so, it must remain below the 3% deficit. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u86	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u87	Even if we take great pleasure in listening to the arguments developed, even if what we have heard about tax havens shockes us, obviously, and raises questions, we are asked to decide on an emergency measure. Of course, we will not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee. We support the approach taken, which is not insignificant, since it brings the rate of corporate tax to 38.33 % for companies with a turnover of between 1 and 3 billion euros, and to 43.33 % for those with a turnover of at least 3 billion euros. This is not, I insist, a small measure. For your part, you propose to double, triple or even quadruple the taxation of companies, but, let us be serious, our territory must be attractive. Even if the debate is interesting, it leads us to distance ourselves from our subject. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] For all these reasons, we will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u89	Philippe Vigier, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u90	The Les Constructifs Group announced earlier, by the voice of Charles de Courson, that it would not associate itself with the motion of our colleague Fabien Roussel for prior rejection. Indeed, there is a problem for us, and we must resolve it, even if we have heard the argument, which has not surprised us and which I do not share. On the other hand, we will vote on this motion for referral to committee. Valérie Rabault said just now that we were expecting answers from the minister on a number of questions: who will lose? Who will win? Our colleague Cendra Motin told us that everything was great, that the budget deficit would not exceed 3% of GDP and that the solution was secure. My dear colleague, by taking a few more days to work in committee, we could avoid Bruno The Mayor of Disadvantages – whom I really do not wish – in the coming weeks or months. Remember the words of Gilles Carrez and Charles de Courson: I was next to them when they spoke them and no one paid attention to them! Where are we a few years later? We need to solve a problem in an emergency. Minister, you have said something very important and taken a very strong initiative by asking for a report from the General Inspectorate of Finance. The purpose of this report is to understand what has happened, and this is your pattern of thought. Who said to make such a decision? Have all the constitutional guarantees been taken, if at all, we can take them? Have all the guarantees with the European Union been taken? Of course not, since we are in an emergency. If we come back to committee, we could go into the questions that are on all our lips. In addition, Lise Magnier proposed the other day, on behalf of the Constructive Group, another path, because it is necessary to find 10 billion euros quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u91	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u92	I recalled earlier that some questions, which have not yet been answered, had been put to the Minister in the Finance Committee. I agree with Mr Vigier's remarks on the motion for a preliminary rejection, but this is a motion for referral back to committee, which would allow us to take a little more time in committee to ask questions and answer them. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion to refer the matter back to committee, which has just been tabled by our colleague, Éric Coquerel. We want to obtain the amounts, in euro ringing and tripping, collected by the winning companies and missing from the losing companies. On the other hand, some companies are currently filing appeals against the State: we would like to have a legal basis, which assures us, as our colleague from La République en marche has said, that in a few months' time, in a year or two years' time, there will be no further appeals against these provisions, which would cost even more than EUR 10 billion. It is for this reason, Mr President, that we will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u94	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u95	I do not want the quality of my comrade Eric Coquerel's arguments to make the questions that have been asked and whose relevance seems to me to require answers. First, there is a rock eel: a measure was taken by the Government, which had been warned by parliamentarians in this House. The measure applies and nothing happens; Armadas of jurists see nothing but fire. And then suddenly, one morning, four years later, they wake up and say something is wrong. Four years later! How do you explain such a mismatch? The question is put to the Council of State, which refers it to the Constitutional Council, which sees a difference in treatment between subsidiaries on the basis, of course, of European legislation, before which we bow. I asked you a question during the debate on the finance bill, minister, and, no matter how urgent the decision is, it could wait ten or fifteen days. We need an answer to this question: how is it that no one in the state, either in Bercy or among the politicians – ministers or close to the President of the Republic, François Hollande – has realized anything? Did anyone give the alert? In this case, who was it and why was it not taken into account? You then answered me, minister – and I am convinced of your good faith – that you were going to investigate and that we would soon know. I have since read, in the newspaper of a satirical palmipede, that the head of state would have taken shade from it, and against you especially, because you would make inquisitions that would approach him too closely. Of course, this must not be true. But finally, you owe us an answer: who has allowed such a disorder to be established, the consequence of which is that the state owes 10 billion euros, that it took four years to realize it and that we only have 15 days to repair it? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Republic on the move, of which I am also convinced of the absolute good faith, you think that you will release the energy of I don't know what by ceasing to tax. Let me tell you that the social class that has been able to earn €55.5 billion in dividends rather than invest, is perfectly capable of finding in the bottom of its pockets the 10 billion we miss, as well as the 9 billion you are offering them with the removal of the tax on wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u96	Mr Fabien Roussel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u97	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, let me once again look back at the current situation and put this amending finance bill in the context of the new tax evasion scandal which involves French multinationals and still reveals the extent of tax optimisation: multinationals are legally doing everything they can to escape tax. And you want to reduce it to 25%, because, as my colleague Cendra Motin said, it suffocates our companies! For these companies, there will always be too much tax. In fact, the minister, the Panama papers, the Luxleaks and now the Paradise papers are all scandals denounced thanks to the exemplary work of more than four hundred journalists, distributed in ninety-five media and seventy-seven countries. Is it normal to leave such a large amount of investigation to journalists alone? Is it not time for the countries concerned to act firmly and resolutely, with appropriate means? After all, it is still the first injured States. Yes, there is an urgent need to effectively combat increasingly elaborate tax avoidance mechanisms. Finance as well as doping: cheaters always have a lead time! It must be noted that today multinationals and financial groups pay in proportion less tax than an SME. It is in this context that the State must contribute EUR 10 billion to the major French groups, asking our fellow citizens to finance half of them. So you're proposing to finance these 10 billion euros by making use of the big companies, to the tune of 5 billion euros. According to your budgetary scheme, the rest will have to be borne by the French, which we simply find unacceptable, for at least two reasons. The first relates to the accumulated profits and dividends paid over the past five years by major financial groups. When I hear about the asphyxiation of the big multinationals, leave me alone, but I can't! The dividends paid by these groups reached 38 billion euros in 2013, 56 billion euros in 2014, 47 billion euros in 2015, 56 billion euros in 2016 and perhaps even more in 2017 – we are talking about dividends paid after profits. These figures show that the 3% contribution on dividends, which is being discussed here and which you propose to remove without compensation, has not hindered the distribution of dividends in our country. Unfortunately, in five years, the state will have taken only €9 billion out of the €300 billion in dividends paid. These amounts show that we really need to go much further in fiscal terms to promote the redistribution of wealth and to improve the financing of the real economy. The second reason for the unacceptable decision to charge our citizens €5 billion is because of the tax choices you made in the 2018 budget. This is where it hurts: you ask the French to pay 5 billion euros more in 2018, while they will already have to accept the reduction of the APL, a period of lean cows for the local authorities and the massive increase of the CSG, when, at the same time, you dislodge the solidarity tax on the fortune and put in place the single flat-rate levy. These two reforms will cost the state a minimum of EUR 5 billion. This is the amount you are proposing to make the French pay to repay this 3% dividend tax. Minister, it is still time to come back to the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth and the entry into force of the flat tax. Whatever you say, we are still discussing the PLF for 2018. Are you going to put in place control and verification measures to track the tax optimisation schemes that major groups could set up to circumvent this exceptional contribution? There is concern that companies will be making accounting entries or making provisions in the coming days or weeks, in order to reduce the amount they will actually have to pay to the State in respect of this contribution. We cannot turn a blind eye to this possibility. The revelations of Paradise Papers must serve as a reminder sting. Mr Minister, you are also telling us that this contribution will make it possible to raise between 4 and 5 billion euros to the state funds as early as 2017. What effective control procedures do you intend to implement to ensure this performance? If, in the end, there were not 4 or 5 billion euros collected by the state this year, but 2 or 3 billion, what would happen in 2018? The rest for the French, for the time being of 5 billion euros, would it increase to 7 or 8 billion euros next year? In reality, the need to sustain this contribution is inevitable, even at a lower rate, in order to guarantee its return in social and fiscal justice. We will propose an amendment to this effect, setting the rate of additional contributions at 7.5% as of 2018, in order to guarantee the resources expected by the State, to circumvent any tax optimisation practices and to compensate in the State budget for the unilateral abolition of the 3% contribution on dividends. Finally, the use of debt to finance the EUR 5 billion raises many questions, as debt and public deficits cease to be problems when it comes to large companies and rich taxpayers. On the other hand, when it comes to financing major investments for the future, finding funds for our hospitals, sustaining aided contracts, things become more complicated. It's just disconcerting. The State will have to pay interest on this sum: do you, minister, have a precise costing of the interest charge that will be paid in respect of the use of debt on these EUR 5 billion? In other words, what will be the net cost of this budget choice? There is, as we can see, another path to be taken to address the issues related to this litigation, this tax fiasco. A fairer and more sustainable path, because it is indisputable that the first losers of the plan that you propose to us today will be the French. So perpetuate this contribution and take away its exceptional character. Review in depth the issue of the € billion of interest to be paid in connection with this dispute. The public authority cannot be subject to the payment of such an amount. These are some areas on which we could move and which we will address in the course of the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u98	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u99	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, "we see the future on one side, the past appears to us under several sides," Goethe said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u100	She's got letters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u101	How do we see the future? On one side, in fact, that of seriousness, responsibility and sincerity. This side is that of the commitments finally fulfilled and of an ambitious but realistic budgetary trajectory. This side, this future, is that of a doubly clear course: more efficient public spending and taxation in the service of purchasing power, investment and employment. This side, this future, is the one that led us to anticipate the reduction of corporate taxes by up to 25% in 2022 – starting with SMEs – which prompted us to anticipate the transformation of the CICE into a drop in labour contributions for all sectors and employees, and which prompted us to plan a major public investment plan to support innovation and complement private investment. But this future cannot be built blindly. As Goethe tells us, the past appears to us today under several faces. This summer, the past came under the face of doubt, of the insinuity pointed out by the Court of Auditors. In the face of insinuity, we have not turned our eyes away and have made by decree difficult but courageous decisions to give us the means to finally recover a deficit of less than 3% of GDP in 2017. Earlier this year, the past came under an unforeseeable face: no serious budget provision was made under the five-year precedent, while, since the end of 2015, we knew that the Court of Justice of the European Union would not allow France to tax distributed dividends without distinction, whether generated by activities of European or French subsidiaries. In the face of unpredictability, we have not turned our attention away, we have taken note of the end of this dividend tax and provided for in our programming law 5.7 billion repayments by 2021 to the companies concerned. But, in recent weeks, the past has come under its emergency face: urgent to respect the ruling of the Constitutional Council, urgent to repay 10 billion to the 5000 companies unduly taxed since 2012, urgent to act so that we do not make the French pay even longer the 4.8% of the moratorium interest imposed on us by the law at every moment when we delay. In the face of urgency, we do not turn our eyes away. We are acting so that we can finally stop what is now taking on the look of a twisted soap opera. We're deputies, not writers. The French expect us to be serious; They don't expect us from the suspense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u103	So yes, without suspense, we will repay the EUR 10 billion by the end of next year and, yes, we will do so without jeopardizing our European and national commitments to stay below the 3% deficit level. Yes, we call on 320 very large companies that make profits in 2017 to contribute up to €5 billion to finance this quick repayment. Yes, we make an assumed choice, that of a surtax, some of which may find that the parameters are quite unsophisticated. Nevertheless, our goal, given the circumstances, is not to be sophisticated but effective, sound budgetaryly, legally and constitutionally so that this exceptional surtax will remain so. Colleagues, the La République en marche group supports this exceptional amending finance bill. It allows us to deal separately with a specific and unique problem that we have to pay for in order to move forward. But we are lucid, because it is our duty as parliamentarians to remain fully mobilized to follow closely, with the Government, the progress of the ongoing litigation and priority issues of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u105	We therefore very solemnly ask here for all the information, data and means necessary to evaluate the provisions for litigation, whether accounting or budgetary, whether existing or future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u107	Like Dominique Lefebvre a year ago in his special report, we solemnly ask the Government "to apply Article 104 of the 2014 Finance Act so that Parliament automatically receives every six months the letters of assessment and reasoned opinions of the European Commission which may have an impact on the finances of the State".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We are taking action today to balance the past under all these faces, but we also want to ensure here that we do not guarantee the future and the only side that we see as worth supporting employment, work, the savings of the French and, above all, the activity of our companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u110	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u111	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers adopted last Thursday morning the text submitted to us this afternoon. As a result, the Minister, Mr Le Maire, was heard by the Finance Committee. The following morning, the Commission met to consider the few amendments which could be tabled until the fateful deadline of the same day at 10 a.m. So this afternoon, we're here to look at this collective. In twenty-four years of continuous presence on these benches, I have never had such an infernal rate. What is the use of this forceful rhythm? To create a tax, an exceptional contribution, in a few days, which will earn more than 5 billion euros. At the same rate, the majority will vote, blindly blindfolded, a device of which we do not know anything. You spoke in silence to Valérie Rabault, who earlier asked you again to know the 320 companies involved in this exceptional contribution, as well as the distribution of any refund of the dividend tax that has been cancelled – in his report, the rapporteur-general cannot say anything about this breakdown. In the face of such a lack of figures, in the face of such opacity, an obvious – serious – fact, which I will illustrate with two examples, is nevertheless necessary: that of injustice. Either a company that has not distributed dividends since 2013, which has reinvested everything to self-finance its investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u112	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u113	Thanks to them, in 2017, it made a good result. It will be taxed to the maximum and its virtuous behaviour will be penalized: no or few repayments, an exceptional maximum contribution. Either, on the other hand, a company whose voractic shareholders...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u114	[[Smile]] Are there any?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u115	... demanded that almost the entire result be distributed since 2013 in the form of dividends and which, in 2017, therefore achieves a zero or even a negative result: it will benefit from maximum repayments. Behind such injustice is something much more serious, and that is why, minister, we need data. I believe that you will not be able to deny this reality: it is above all French companies, which make results in France, which will be taxed. Through this exceptional contribution, it is therefore employment and investment in France that you sanction! Of course, you will argue about the legacy, the need to find revenue and that this surtax has already been used several times: the Juppé surtax in 1996 in order to qualify for the euro, Strauss-Kahn surtax in 1998, more recently, at the end of 2011, Fillon surtax to reduce the deficit. So you say to yourself, in the face of the legal imbroglio: "Let's choose a solution that is pretty solid legally, let's choose the easy solution! As for me, your haste will lead to a bad option. Moreover, Minister, you are – we are, moreover – in the midst of schizophrenia. Just a few days ago, you announced in this triumphant rostrum that the corporate tax rate would rise to 25% by 2022 at the latest. As soon as you are appointed, as of 2017, your first action is to raise this tax to 45%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u116	You're a little bit of bad faith, Mr. Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u117	In fact, Minister, if we add 45% to 30% of a single flat-rate levy, that's 75%. However, the Constitutional Council ruled not so long ago that, beyond a certain rate of cumulation – around 70% or 75% – the tax becomes confiscatory. Apart from this legal problem, which I refer to in passing, what brilliant demonstration do you, Minister, make of the French ills of instability and tax unpredictability? In France, a minister says one thing and then his opposite a few days away!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u118	I am formally challenging Mr Carrez's analysis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u119	I don't dispute the legacy: there was a fatal gear. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union last May raised a priority issue of constitutionality and, on 6 October, the Constitutional Council, which was referred to the Council of State, cancelled the entire tax. When it was created in July 2012, we were only two deputies, Charles de Courson and I, to ask the Government if it was, of course, appropriate to create this dividend tax. I have the honesty to acknowledge, as the rapporteur-general has said, that we have not raised the issue of a risk of European incompatibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u120	No one did!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u121	In open session, anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u122	But Charles de Courson and I still said that other choices might be possible. I remember very well that he had tabled an amendment to propose a corporate tax surtax...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u123	Epsilonesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u124	... and that I myself had proposed a generalisation of withholding tax – but with a much lower rate – on UCITS. Since I find that the surtax that you propose will penalise France, I find it unacceptable that the outright removal of the withholding tax on UCITS would be tantamount to abolishing any tax on the massive transfers of dividends to the US and Canadian pension funds, without any consideration. When I read in the press this morning that a 20% tax will be created in the United States on all externally produced products, I wonder what we are doing, Minister, to defend the tax interests of our country and of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u126	We are constantly witnessing tax defeats that primarily penalize activity, employment and investment in France and Europe! I would like you to be much more active, Minister, in harmonizing the corporate tax base. In the last 20 years I've been in this house, we've gone further than we've done in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u128	As the rapporteur-general has said, the chairman of the Committee on Finance has said: like them, I contest the way in which our committee is informed. So I'm taking the wire back exactly. In fact, we had no sincere or reliable information until mid-October. In his report on the finance bill for 2018, which dates back about 15 days, the rapporteur-general mentions inaccurate information. Indeed, the programming of repayments for the cancellation of the dividend tax following litigation amounts to 300 million in 2018 and 1.8 billion in subsequent years, at a total cost of 5.7 billion. Now, Minister, since July, and even since the end of June, you have had information to say that this dispute was going to result in very large amounts of money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u129	No, you can't say that, Mr. Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u130	Minister, in the decision of the Constitutional Council, I looked at the date on which the various tax lawyers who defend the interests of companies sent their briefs to the Council of State: all did so in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u131	That's not true, Mr. Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u132	But I remember that at the beginning of July, we had to deal with the decrees in advance and the decree of cancellation for another inheritance, the famous legacy that you have put so much forward, that of the 4 billion under-budgeting in the 2017 budget made by the previous government. And you did well at the time to give us information! I remember very well that in committee we did not have the beginning of information on this dispute, whereas things were already being done within the framework of the QPC, the Council of State, and even the Constitutional Council, which already had the elements of the file. You will never make me believe that the Government did not have the elements available to the Council of State and the Constitutional Council in the course of July. We work under absolutely deplorable conditions. It is, Mr President, the denial of quality parliamentary work. This afternoon, we're going to vote for a blind text and make a decision at once – perhaps there was no other one to take, but we should at least think about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u133	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u134	... simply because Parliament has not been properly informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u135	In 2012, you had time, and that didn't stop you from making bad decisions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u136	In 2012, Minister, you were a member of the Finance Committee and I did not hear you point out the difficulties, as we were a few to do. Moreover, since you are talking about 2012, we have proposed that we should not deal with the issue of UCITS litigation, which we inherited from the collective of the summer, but that we should wait for the collective of the end of the year. And that's exactly what I want to offer you this afternoon. Let's wait a few weeks to make sure we make the right decision. There's another point I'm missing a little bit. I was just rereading the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, which presents the accounting in the budget, but especially in Maastrichtian, which is of interest to us, because I agree with you that it is necessary to achieve our goal and to go below 3% in 2017. France is the last country with an excessive deficit since 2009 and we cannot continue like this. But what are we told? We are told that, in order for reimbursement to be truly recorded as a Maastrichtian expenditure, the company's debt to the state must be certain. Are you really going to have the equivalent of 4 billion refunds validated by your tax services by the end of the year? Let me doubt that, minister. I would therefore like us to give ourselves some time to find a more appropriate solution. I would like to conclude with a proposal and three questions. The proposal has already been made excellently by the rapporteur-general and recalled earlier by Amélie de Montchalin. We cannot continue in this way and I invite you, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, to launch a fact-finding mission to examine all the European disputes that are under way. I'm thinking of Steria, UCITS or De Ruyter, who worries me. We need to look at all this, adding – and this is a very important proposal from our colleague François Pupponi – the current QPCs, because they become evil. It is a QPC that costs us 10 billion euros today, we must not forget it. We must therefore do this objective work together, involving all groups. And, for my part, I'm really ready to participate. I come to my three questions. I quickly move on to the first one, because Charles de Courson will develop it. Are you sure that what you are proposing does not put us at risk of a break in equality, especially for French groups that have many subsidiaries abroad? Secondly, our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei asked a very good question on Thursday, which you did not answer. He asked you what the impact of this measure would be on UFP revenues in 2018. It is obvious that there will be fewer dividends, and you are not correcting anything, as the High Council for Public Finance points out, which is unable to give an opinion, whereas, usually, it gives an opinion on each budget collective. I come to my last question. Your haste, your willingness to find 5 billion euros so quickly, as early as 2017 – because if you were waiting for the year-end budget collective, the revenue would only come in 2018 – is this haste not also a way to make sure that you will reach the 2.9% target? If in a few weeks you come to tell us triumphantly that you have managed to reach 2.8%, 2.7%, or 2.6% by welcoming you to have done better than 2.9% thanks to your excellent management, it will actually be because you have introduced an emergency surtax that was not necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All these questions deserve answers. I don't want to sue you for intent. It is true that you inherit a budgetary situation that you must take into account, but what I would like – and you can only agree with me, Mr President – is that the National Assembly should be more respected and that, before making the law, and that it should be a good law, it should be given all the useful information and time to reflect, which is not the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u137	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u138	You know, Mr Carrez, that I, like all the other Presidents of the National Assembly before me, and as, in general, all the Presidents of the sitting, forbid me to intervene in substance in the debates of our Assembly. It is not up to me to do so, and so I cannot respond to your intervention. On the form, however, you know, as I do, for having been chairman of the Committee on Finance and rapporteur-general for the budget, that we are a number of people who believe that the means of our House must be strengthened, particularly in terms of evaluation and monitoring. Perhaps this would help to avoid the kind of problems we have experienced in the past. You also know that I have set up working groups, which will soon give their first conclusions, to improve the functioning of our House on evaluation and monitoring, as well as on the legislative procedure, including the examination of the budget. I wanted to make this point on form, which does not involve participation in the debate on substance. Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u139	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, it is not obvious to go through the general discussion between Gilles Carrez and Charles de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u140	[[Smile]] It's an honor for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u141	As I had the opportunity to say in the Committee on Finance: in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. After a presentation of the text last Thursday in the Council of Ministers and a review in committee on Friday, at the same time as various budgetary missions were discussed in the enlarged committee and in the sitting, we are today considering this text necessary for the budgetary balance of the years 2017 and 2018. It is necessary, and even capital, for our fiscal balance and our planned exit from the excessive deficit procedure. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, as you know, Minister, is particularly committed to this objective, which will enable us to regain our voice in Europe. We should never have entered this process of excessive deficit, and we therefore wholeheartedly support the will of the President of the Republic and the Government to finally get out of it. This first amending finance bill for 2017 therefore provides for the introduction of two additional exceptional contributions to corporate tax to ensure that the government deficit is maintained below 3% of GDP. This decision, which has been said many times, follows the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union last spring and, above all, the decision of the Constitutional Council of 6 October to completely censor the 3% contribution on dividends set up in 2013. That a tax that was voted in 2012 – and to which the Constitutional Council had found nothing to say at the time – and which produced nearly 10 billion euros in less than five years can be considered unconstitutional after so much time leaves a little puzzled – has already been said many times. Nevertheless, it is up to the current government to take on the facts and find solutions not to stop the machine that the budget texts under consideration have shaped. Faced with these exceptional circumstances, which take the form of a repayment of almost 10 billion euros, distributed fairly over 2017 and 2018, the Government's response is both strong and courageous: strong, as it comes less than a month after the decision of the Constitutional Council – which, in my view, was not necessarily predictable – with the time to provide a mechanism ensuring no less than 5 billion euros of revenue as early as 2017, within a solid legal framework; brave, for in such a situation there was no ideal solution. For the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, the Government's proposal appears to be the most correct and appropriate proposal. We must assume together that the companies that will pay will not necessarily be those that will be reimbursed – in any case, not in the same proportions. This tax may not be ideal, it is true, but it is calibrated in such a way that it will be acceptable to the debtors and will not put companies at risk. Mr. Carrez, you have raised the problem of companies that have distributed dividends and have not invested. I will not insult you to explain to you the technique of depreciation, which comes a little to mitigate the profit. If we're technicians, let's do it to the end. This measure, I said, is acceptable and will not put companies at risk, especially since some amendments, which should be accepted, will correct the threshold effects. We wish once again to commend the Government for its willingness to consult with the relevant actors, because I believe, Mr. Minister, that you have consulted extensively. Effectiveness, justice and consultation are the pillars of the work of our majority. However, our group wishes to draw the attention of the Government and Parliament to two points. First of all, the budgetary procedure, as it exists today, shows its limits. Designing a tax, or even a law, at the turn of an amendment tabled in haste and considered only at a sitting, does not allow the Government to ensure the soundness of the proposed mechanism, nor does Parliament to play its role of monitoring and proposing. In addition, the examination of the text within a limited time frame means that some colleagues should be present at the same time in the Finance Committee, in the enlarged committee, in the sitting or even in their constituency. And what to say, finally, from the examination in session until the middle of the night or the weekend, which does not promote the lucidity or serenity of the debates! Work is under way on this subject, but we stress here the importance of being ambitious, pragmatic and concrete in renovating the functioning of our Assembly, as Mr Carrez said earlier. From a budgetary point of view, this draft law on amending finance, coupled with the impact of the CICE's downward shift in contributions, forecasts a significant decline in the public deficit only in 2020, after a decrease of 2.9% in 2017, 2.8% in 2018 and 3% in 2019, despite accelerated growth in 2017 and several sector-wide reforms. This trajectory requires us to maintain at least strict control of public finances until 2020, while continuing the transformation announced in the presidential programme around the "Free" and "Protect" axes. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Our group, Minister, will pay particular attention to these requirements. Despite these two outstanding questions, which will be answered in the course of our work, I confirm that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will give its full support to this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u142	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u143	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill referred to as the "Corrective Finance Bill" plunges all tax, economic and budgetary experts into an abyss of perplexity. Indeed, this text raises three types of question, procedural, legal and economic. First of all, the procedure used is not respectful of Parliament's rights. Approved in the Council of Ministers on Thursday morning, 2 November – the day of the deceased – this text was presented to the Finance Committee on the same day at 12.00 p.m. It was discussed by this committee the following day, Friday, 3 November, and its discussion in open session was set at 15.00 on Monday, 6 November. This incredible rush has resulted in a large emptiness of the right to amend its content, since the time limit between the examination in committee and the examination in public session was set by the Bureau of the National Assembly in derogation from the principle of three free days and has, in fact, been reduced to one day. In addition, for the first time in parliamentary history, Parliament will discuss at the same time two amending finance bills, the exceptional PLFR that we are discussing today, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 2 November last, and the traditional PLFR at the end of the year, which, according to the ministerial declarations, will be approved by the Council of Ministers on Wednesday 15 November next. Indeed, the discussion of the former will not be completed when the examination of the latter begins. You will confess that there is something completely absurd about this. As pointed out by the High Council for Public Finance in its opinion of 30 October 2017, this PLFR is "unique", as the revenue estimates for 2017 have been updated on the basis of those contained in the PLF for 2018, i.e. information dating back to the beginning of September 2017, i.e. two months earlier than the date of filing of this PLFR. You should have, Minister, completed the assessments on the date of this filing. Even more serious: no update of the budget appropriations was made in this PLFR on the grounds of "the urgency surrounding the preparation of this measure" – I quote the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u144	We will do it for the second PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u145	However, this practice is contrary to article 32 of the Financial Laws Organization Act, which states: "Finance laws present in a sincere way all the resources and expenses of the State. So, by doing so, you committed a first mistake under the organic law. Therefore, the High Council refused to give its opinion – which had never been seen since it existed – and rightly considered that: "This lack of updating does not put the High Council in a position to make an overall assessment of the macroeconomic framework and the forecast of public finances associated with this PLFR. » It is therefore questionable whether the procedure used is not contrary to the spirit of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure with regard to compliance with the deadlines for tabling amendments, but whether the failure to update the revenue and budgetary appropriations at the time of the tabling of the draft law does not constitute a violation of Article 32 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws. Secondly, the bill before us poses formidable legal problems. First of all, with regard to budgetary law. During the general discussion on the draft finance law for 2018, the Les Constructifs group welcomed the sincerity of this project but added two major reservations to this comment: the first concerned allocations for external operations, which were undervalued by around 500 million euros; the second concerned the annulment by the Constitutional Council of the 3% dividend tax. Even though the cost of this cancellation is now estimated at EUR 10 billion, only a provision of EUR 300 million was included in the draft budget for 2018, with 1.8 billion planned for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. I had drawn your attention to this point, Mr. Minister, particularly in questions to the Government. I was told that the companies concerned would take a long time to apply for reimbursement. Today, you say the opposite. In this regard, the authors of the text before us estimate, without giving any explanation, that the sum of 10 billion will be distributed half over 2017 and 2018. This distribution is not in line with reality: how can we explain to the 318 companies affected by the two new taxes that they will have to pay them, essentially on 20 December 2017, in the form of an 80% advance payment of the amount of these two taxes, and that those of them who paid the 3% dividend tax will be reimbursed over two years? You'll admit it's a little surprising. Thus, the principle of sincerity may not have been respected in the presentation of this PLFR for 2017. A second problem concerns the risk of conviction of tax officials who recovered in 2017, following the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 May 2017 and that of the Constitutional Council of 6 October 2017, some of the 2 billion that this tax produced in 2016. In the reports annexed to the PLFR and in committee, the Government indicated that this amount was about EUR 200 million, but we do not know very well what part of the sum was recovered after those dates – this is probably the majority. Litigation has been filed by companies. However, Minister, there is no provision in your bill that would protect the public servants concerned. Even more serious: this PLFR, which aims to create two new taxes, the exceptional contribution and the additional contribution, for a revenue of 5.4 billion euros – 4.8 billion in 2017 and 600 million in 2018 – seems to be contrary to three constitutional principles. The text proposed by the Government was at first contrary to the principle of equality. By creating two taxes each increasing the corporate tax by 15% of the 318 companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion and of the 110 companies with a turnover of more than 3 billion, it creates a breach of equality between these two categories of companies, because the amount of profit, a relevant indicator of the contributing powers of enterprises, is not linked to the amount of their turnover. On the other hand, the concept used for turnover is not the consolidated turnover for the tax consolidated groups, whereas the parent company will be responsible for paying these taxes. On the other hand, for foreign groups, it is the subsidiaries established in France that will pay these taxes. There is another clear breach of equality: if a company that did not distribute dividends between 2013 and 2016 and therefore did not pay the 3% tax is a beneficiary in 2017, it will have to pay these new taxes; a contrario, a company that distributed a lot of dividends between 2013 and 2016 but is in deficit in 2017 will be reimbursed the amount of taxes paid on the dividends paid while being exempt from the new taxes. The breach of equality is also evident for mutual insurance companies: they cannot, by statute, distribute dividends, but they have not paid the 3% tax, but they will pay the new tax. One could also mention the case of listed real estate investment companies, which were exempt from the 3% tax but would be liable to these two new taxes, and that of mutual banking networks, which often do not distribute dividends or very little, and will also be subject to such taxes. This PLFR would violate a second constitutional principle: the principle of non-retroactivity. Indeed, it creates two clearly retroactive taxes. In its jurisprudence, the Constitutional Council considers retroactivity in tax matters to be constitutional with two reservations: respect for the non-retroactivity of more severe tax sanctions; the existence of an imperative ground of general interest. If there is no problem, in this case, with regard to the first reservation, there is one in relation to the second reservation, because the Constitutional Council does not accept that a purely financial reason can justify the infringement of legally acquired situations. This seems to be the case, since, according to the general statement of reasons, the aim of the creation of these two new taxes is "to ensure the return of the government deficit below the 3% of GDP threshold". If the Constitutional Council were to consider that Article 1 of the PLFR for 2017 is in fact a partial validation law, inasmuch as it makes the new taxes, for a product of EUR 5.4 billion, paid to some of the taxpayers who had already paid the 3% dividend tax between 2013 and 2017, for an amount of EUR 10 billion, the risk of cancellation would be even higher. However, the presentation of this measure, which increases the net costs of repayments for 223 companies and the aggravation for 95 others, tends to show that it can be a partial validation law. The text poses a problem with regard to a third constitutional principle: the right to property. Indeed, one may wonder whether Article 1 does not lead to a tax burden exceeding the constitutional ceiling of 70 to 75 per cent of income. Let us take the case of an industrial company. After the application of the increased corporate tax, there will remain only 55.6% of the pre-tax profit. The shareholder will then pay the CSG at 15.5% and the income tax, if any, at a maximum rate of 45%. All these taxes will then represent 78.3% of the pre-tax profit. Finally, this PLFR poses a problem under European law. In view of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the compatibility of the two taxes it creates with the principles of free movement of capital and non-discrimination between undertakings within the European Union can be questioned. Indeed, the tax-integrated French groups will be able to offset the deficits of their subsidiaries with the profits of their other subsidiaries located in France or in other countries, since the two taxes will apply to a consolidated profit, whereas the groups whose parent company is located in another European country will not be able to charge on the profits of their French subsidiaries the deficits of their subsidiaries located in a third country. I come to my penultimate point:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u146	Please conclude, Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u147	...this text aimed at a sharp rise in corporate tax is inconsistent with the policy of programmed reduction of the rate of corporate tax and of public finance recovery. [["Ah! » on various benches]] Our group is opposed to the solution advocated by the Government, but, as we are constructive, Minister, I conclude my remarks by making a proposal to you. This is a very simple measure, already used, which would be to crystallize tax claims, including interest on late payments, held by companies that have paid the 3 per cent tax on the State. This claim would be repayable over a 10-year period with interest fixed at the 10-year Treasury bond rate, currently 0.8%, which would solve the legal interest problem by 4.8%. This claim would be mobilizable. [[Applause on the benches of the LC and LR groups]] In conclusion, in July 2012, we were two MPs, Gilles Carrez and I, to raise objections to the 3% dividend tax; We weren't heard. Today, Gilles Carrez and I share new objections; Listen to us before it's too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u148	You have far exceeded your speaking time, Mr. de Courson. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u149	You can't do it, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u150	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting this afternoon to discuss a draft amending finance law for 2017 which aims to create a corporate tax surtax for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion. As you have said, Minister, this proposal aims to compensate for the reimbursement of the 3% dividend tax that has been applicable since 2013, which the Court of Justice of the European Union found to be contrary to the mother-daughter scheme and which the Constitutional Council declared unconstitutional on 7 October last. Let me first turn to the context of this sequence, which is not the most glorious, neither for the Government nor for Parliament. On 10 May 2012, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that French legislation, which introduced a different tax regime for dividends of national origin depending on whether they were collected by resident or non-resident UCITS, was contrary to Union law. Thus, according to the Court, Union law "is opposed to a regulation of a Member State which provides for the taxation, by means of withholding tax, of dividends of national origin when they are received by UCITS resident in another State, whereas such dividends are exempt from tax in respect of UCITS resident in the first State". This dispute cost France 6.5 billion euros. In an attempt to compensate for this, it was recalled that in July 2012, the 3% tax on dividends paid by subsidiaries to their parent company was introduced. This provision was included in the first amending finance bill for 2012, in respect of which the opposition had referred the matter to the Constitutional Council, certainly by criminalizing articles other than article 6, which created the tax. In any case, in August 2012, the Constitutional Council had not said anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u152	He couldn't raise the matter of his own motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u153	The Council did not raise it! Besides, no one raised it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u154	In 2015, you recalled, Mr.Carrez, the then Secretary of State responsible for the budget had made a few comments in the Senate, but it was on the occasion of an amendment tabled by Ms.Marie-Noëlle Lienemann to double the tax. We had stayed there. For its part – I am speaking under the control of the colleagues who were present during the previous parliamentary term – the Finance Committee of our House has never been seized of anything concerning this tax. On 17 May, the Court of Justice of the European Union declared that the 3% dividend tax was contrary to the company's mother-daughter scheme. Following this decision, Minister, it seems to me that the Government could have taken the lead and reported on the impact of this decision as early as the summer of 2017 – Gilles Carrez, former Chairman of the Finance Committee, pointed out this. But that was not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u155	Providing 5 billion euros is not nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u156	It was not until the Constitutional Council declared the 3% dividend tax unconstitutional on 7 October, following a priority question of constitutionality raised by the Council of State. In my view, we can learn several lessons from this sequence. Firstly, with regard to information to Parliament in real time. These disputes cost a fortune to the public finances, therefore to the French, without our assembly being precisely informed of them. All these disputes, as Gilles Carrez also pointed out, stem from the fact that we are voting in this Chamber for French legislation that has impacts outside our borders and is colliding either with the free movement of capital or with legal schemes specified in the directives – I am thinking in particular of the EU's Mother-daughter Directive. Since Europe lives with the principle of free movement of capital without ever having defined what a tax base should be consistent with this principle, it is certain that there will be further disputes of this kind in the future, which will still have a considerable cost to the state budget. Therefore, Minister, it is crucial to move forward on a common definition of the corporate and capital income tax base.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u157	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u158	With this in mind, the New Left Group has tabled several amendments. One of them aims to allocate EUR 50 000 per year to the Finance Committee so that it can pay for studies, in particular by soliciting tax lawyers who intervene before the European Court of Justice, in order to obtain contradictory views. Thus, we will not be dependent solely on your department's advice, which tends to never clearly present us with the risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u159	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u160	I hope, Minister, that you will support our amendment. With regard to the way in which we legislate, I also believe that we cannot continue to vote on articles with eyelets. Last Thursday, in the Finance Committee, I asked you to tell us the number of winning and losing companies. You told us that 95 of them were winners – they will be reimbursed in excess of what they will pay for the surtax – and that 223 would lose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u161	Of which ten are very losers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u162	Absolutely! I then asked you to tell us the amounts. You specifically replied that you could not communicate them to me, but that you would ask the Director of Tax Legislation to forward them to me at a later date.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u163	I'll do it, don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u164	After the vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u165	For now, we have nothing! To continue to work like this is to run the risk of further litigation. So, to encourage you to change Bercy's working methods, we would have liked to have tabled an amendment on this issue. It's complicated, because the Constitution is full of deputies and senators. I would point out, however, that Article 8 of Organic Law No. 2009-403 of 15 April 2009 provides that the impact studies of finance bills and amending finance bills must set out with precision the assessment of the economic, financial, social and environmental consequences, as well as the expected costs and financial benefits of the provisions envisaged for each category of public administration. Therefore, Minister, I consider that, on the basis of the information you have given us for this surcharge, the Government does not comply with Article 8 of the Organic Law. It is written on page 41 of your impact study that the forecast of corporate tax, in gross terms for 2017, is estimated by applying an 8% tax benefit rate – we don't know where this rate comes from. You add that this rate of change is higher than the 4.8% tax benefit rate achieved between 2016 and 2017 for all companies, since the tax benefit of large companies is more dynamic than that calculated for all companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u166	It's not obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u167	You will confess, minister, that such an assessment does not satisfy anyone. Where did this 8% rate come from? Your hat, or Bercy's hat? No one knows! How do you want us to accept such assessments? Finally, I believe that we must seize the opportunity of this article to review the level of interest moratoriums, which stands at 4.8%, and which obliges France, if it does not repay immediately, to pay EUR 1.3 million per day of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u168	Of course! Amendments to this effect have been rejected in the Committee on Finance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u169	And again, I divided by 365 days, not by the number of working days – I would have gotten an even higher amount. For the record, this level of moratorium interest has been amended by the 2006 Finance Act. It is therefore good that Parliament has the power to set the rate. So, Mr President, together with Gilles Carrez and other Members, we are proposing a series of amendments aimed at lowering the rate to make it consistent with the current economic environment. In 2006, this rate was lowered from 0.75 per cent to 0.4 per cent per month. We believe that it needs to be further reduced. Today, the rate of return on the 10-year Treasury bond – the ATO – stands at 0.6%. In 2006, when the rate was changed, it was 4%. It is therefore high time to make the rate of interest moratoriums consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u170	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u171	If you agree, I hope that you will give a favourable opinion on all the amendments that are going in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u172	[[smiles]] Don't rush!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u173	I'm not rushing; I simply hope that you will be in favour of our amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Finally, Minister, you took advantage of this PLFR to slip the small section 5, which aims to get us to ratify the advance order of July 20, 2017. Here too, it is a pass-through, because it is usually done in the context of the end-of-year PLFR. I tell you right away, Minister, we cannot vote for this article, which provides for a 5 euro plan for the APL – personalized housing subsidies – of 6.5 million French people, of whom 60 % live below the poverty line. You have raised €300 million from the allocations to local authorities to support their investments – the provision of equipment for rural areas, the DETR, and the local investment support fund, the FSIL. Finally, you cut the budget for labour and employment, which explains why the jobs helped did "pschitt" at the end of the year. For all these reasons, we will not be able to vote on this amending finance bill for 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u174	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u175	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a situation which can be perplexed. The 3% dividend tax, introduced under François Hollande's quinquennium, was invalidated by the Constitutional Council. This tax was intended to compensate for a loss of budgetary revenue of nearly 5 billion, which itself came from Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium – of which you were minister, Mr Le Maire. It was intended to encourage companies to reinvest their profits, rather than distribute dividends. Rather quickly, tax law specialists had alerted the tax incompatibility with the tax system of parent companies and their subsidiaries in the European Union. President Hollande, with the support of his loyal economic advisor of the time, Emmanuel Macron, had decided to introduce an additional contribution to corporate tax. All this was in the right direction, but, unsurprisingly, the measure was reversed by the Constitutional Council, after the partial invalidation of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This way of persisting in error leaves a dreamer. In 2015, the European Commission launched a formal notice procedure against France concerning this tax. At that time, the invoice was estimated at only 2 to 3 billion euros. It is therefore questionable why the State has maintained the tax in this form for so long. It is therefore not entirely a matter of managing an unforeseen situation, but rather of making a necessary corrective action, following a legal management which, at best, could be described as risky. It doesn't matter that our current president has dealt specifically with corporate taxation at this time, and that many members of the current majority have taken part in the vote on this law and accepted the amendment that is not in conformity with the Constitution; It doesn't matter if parliamentarians who have become ministers of the current government have voted all this. Here we are reassured. Now, taking into account penalties and interest, the bill has risen to almost 10 billion euros. Seeing the painful coming, the new government decided to simply remove the 3% dividend tax instead of redrafting it to try to make it applicable. For the rest, Bercy proposes the solution you know. To the great despair of the MEDEF, half will be financed by a new exceptional and one-off tax applicable to large companies, and the other half by the taxpayer. Perhaps it is time to reform the Constitutional Council, whose composition and ideological orientation raise questions. Indeed, its members, whom the press curiously describes as "wise", can interpret the Constitution and decide on the balance between particular economic interests and the general interest. They often seem to have given priority to defending the established economic order, and hence the privileges of multinationals, over the objectives of social and fiscal justice, preventing any form of alternative vision. The major groups play this role, as demonstrated by Mathilde Mathieu's investigation for Mediapart, which evokes the "close doors": these informal contributions that are ordered from leading constitutional law professors, or specialized law firms, for a fee of several tens of thousands of euros, and sent to the Council to try to influence its decision. The Constitutional Council has thus censored many legislative measures beneficial to the general interest in recent years: the proposal to tax very high incomes at 75% on the last tranche; Florange law, supposed to put an end to redundancies by imposing penalties on companies that close profitable sites; the dividend tax. He also objected to sanctions against lobbyists who would not comply with the requirements of records requiring minimum transparency in their activities, in the Assembly or in the Senate. He even censored the provision for the creation of financial aid for whistleblowers. Surprisingly, we have not been aware of the reaction of the Constitutional Council to the decline in LPOs, the breakdown of the labour code, the loss of individual freedoms or the dismantling of social protection, whether it is unemployment insurance or health insurance. Let's not be wrong about it. This is not an insurmountable fatality for France and Europe, which would prevent us from making our society more just, but an ideological shift. As Emmanuel Todd quite rightly says: "In a world where primary income inequalities are growing disproportionately, the rich demand and obtain that their taxes be reduced. They always want less state, always fewer civil servants. We are no longer dealing with a logic of economic efficiency, but with a dynamic of power. This worrying shift, from the pursuit of profit to the pursuit of power, reflects the transformation of capitalism, passed through stages from the industrial stage to the financial stage. » Let us take advantage of this amending finance bill to ask ourselves the right question: what taxes, for which society? There is money, but it is captured by a few, instead of being put at the service of the general interest by tax. The tax system must be entirely based on a fair and clear foundation, applying the principle of progressivity, according to which the more money you earn, the more you contribute to the public good. We believe that the sharing of value between employees and shareholders is unfair and inefficient, and that taxation must tax the financial economy more. Louise Michel was right: "Our biggest mistake was that we had not planted the stake in the heart of the vampire: finance." Not only does this system not work, it destroys millions of lives. You sacrificed the labor code, trampled on the law that protected the weakest, removed the solidarity tax on wealth – the ISF. The outlook must be reversed and the economy directed towards new values. It is essential that the accumulation of goods and the theasurization of financial capital be very seriously regulated, and that fairer taxation reduce the extravagant disparities that continue to widen. Money lost its original vocation, which was to promote exchanges between men, to become an end in itself. Introduced into all aspects of life, developed disproportionately, it becomes a screen that separates us. Accumulated, it consolidates the separation between those who control it and those who suffer the lack of it. In a world where money reigns, lack of money makes it slave, owning it becomes domination, and accumulating it tyranny. Indeed, the concrete realities of our daily lives cannot be summed up in the laws of money and the market alone. And you know as well as I do that this money will never return to the real economy, and that no jobs will be created. It's clear, so we have two different visions of the economy. As some of you may know, the term "crisis" in Chinese comes from the combination of two concepts: "danger" and "opportunity". Behind the crisis of the unbridled capitalist system, there is also an opportunity: we must seize this bifurcation to restore its place to the human. Let us begin by building a tax system that is more respectful of people and their environment, socially and environmentally responsible. Putting the economy at the service of human beings is resisting depersonalizing and destructive globalization, but it is also a reaffirmation of the desire to share the goods and wealth created by labour. The drift of institutions, mass abstention, media uniformity, the narrowing of political debate to the dogmas of one thought prevails neoliberal norms. To stop the madness of the markets, the people simply have to move, and that begins with each of us. The explosion of inequality, insecurity and poverty, the repeated violations of democracy, the denigration of human relations based on solidarity and cooperation: all these phenomena, apparently inevitable, depend entirely on our political choices. For example, you had the choice to increase the ISF, but you deleted it. You had the choice to strengthen workers' rights, but you degraded them. You had the choice to truly allow access to care for all, but you removed the social contributions from the health insurance, which helps to weaken its financing. You had the choice to allow each bachelor to have a place in the university of his choice, and you let a system that generalizes the drawing of lots persist. These are examples, among many others, which reflect the criminalization of the State, a State that has renounced protection of the weakest, a State that gradually abandons its role, is present throughout the territory, a State that allows the population to consume toxic food products and is falling back on CETA and glyphosate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I will conclude with Jean-Claude Besson-Girard: "After the end of development, the sustainable decline, with the exit of the market society that it involves, is the logical response to allow humanity to escape the disastrous consequences of consumerism, so that humanity can be fulfilled as humanity, if that is its desire, by becoming aware of itself. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u176	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u177	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, to belong to the national representation in order to carry out a new political project is nourished by the desire for a better future for our country. However, this vision of the future may also need to correct past inaccuracies or errors, in order to make the foundations on which our future action will be built more solid and clearer. That is precisely our role today, ladies and gentlemen, in supporting the Government's proposal. I welcome the ongoing investigation, which will allow us to take an objective look at the decision that has been taken. As you know, the Constitutional Council, in its decision of 6 October last, censored the additional contribution to corporation tax of 3% on dividends, in that it ignored the principles of equality before the law and before public office. The Constitutional Council, which has been ardently criticized by some, is an independent institution. Exercising a constitutionality check, he does not judge on the merits: he judges on the law. It cancelled the entire tax with retroactive effect, implying an invoice of EUR 10 billion for the State, taking into account the moratorium interest. The Constitutional Council thus operates a full censorship of the tax, not only for certain subsidiaries as requested by the Court of Justice of the European Union. It therefore imposes its immediate abolition. This is the current state of our law in this area, and respect for the rule of law obliges us to follow up on this decision, without commenting on it or assessing its relevance in the light of previous case law. These are the conditions under which the Government proposes to regularize the situation in which we find ourselves and to face this exceptional burden by sharing it between the State and the largest French companies, according to the specific modality that has just been exposed. The decision to make this adjustment in relation to the 2018 Finance Bill is thus concerned with the removal of the 3% contribution on distributed dividends and the creation of the new exceptional tax. We are therefore replacing an illegal tax with a legal tax. This decision can be duplicatively described as courageous and responsible. It is courageous, because it faces the decisions of the past, without eluded the efforts to be made and while preserving the credibility of France's voice and ensuring that our European commitments are respected. It is responsible because it is consistent with a desire for budgetary sincerity, transparency and clarity in the management of public finances. Indeed, it is more responsible to deal with it, despite the difficulties, than to relegate it to others and later, taking the reckless and irresponsible risk of increasing the moratoriums on the country's finances. We don't hide the dust under the carpet. Colleagues, the raison d'être of this amending finance bill is threefold. First of all, it is due to a major budgetary difficulty, which risks putting France outside the European nails. This is then an exceptional decision, and the rest of it does not change the tax environment that we have developed and that is beneficial to business activity. We will therefore maintain fiscal stability and a calm climate for businesses. Finally, it is the determination and commitment not to take any legal risks that might in one way or another affect our country's finances. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Legal and budgetary certainty is therefore the marker of this amending finance bill. Here we have the opportunity to close this past: I invite you to seize it and to show a responsible attitude by adopting this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u178	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u179	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u180	Mr President, Mr Minister, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Council's invalidation on 6 October 2012 of the 3% dividend tax, voted in 2012 under the previous socialist majority, obliges the state to repay about 10 billion euros to big companies: a "state scandal" in your opinion, minister, or a "legal amateurism [which] has led to the greatest tax gift ever given to companies in this country", according to Christophe Castaner, the government's spokesman. But who is responsible for this $10 billion bill? You have asked the General Inspectorate of Finance, Mr. Minister, for an investigation into the adoption of this tax despite serious doubts about its legality. We can, however, already question ourselves. This tax was introduced by Mr Moscovici, then Minister of Economy of the Ayrault government. Who was then the deputy director of Mr. Moscovici's office? Alexis Kohler, the current secretary general of the Elysée. Another question: who was Jérôme Cahuzac's Chief of Staff, Minister of Budget? None other than Amélie Verdier, the current budget manager, who is now responsible for finding the famous 10 billion to repay. Let's not stop in such a good way. Who was then the Deputy Secretary General of the Elysée in charge of economic and fiscal matters? No one else but Emmanuel Macron, who later became Minister of Economy and the European Union has been preventing the dangers of this tax since 2015. So pretending to fall naked today is just making fun of the world! This, of course, does not detract from the responsibilities of our socialist friends. That is why, when Mr Valls replies: "The idea of basing the government before, the governments before [...] a number of problems, which are serious, serious, financial problems, [...] this is old politics," it is said that the string is a bit big. That's who to give the mistigri to! All this is a little lamentable. This is not the only mistake of the previous quinquennium that has cost us dearly. Remember the ecotax portals: 1 billion; from the switch to the uniform cigarette pack: 100 million for not wanting to wait three months! What sanctions have been imposed on these irresponsible policies? None, as always. But you have to pay back. On Tuesday, October 31, you, Minister, announced the introduction of a "supertax" for the 300 largest French companies. All in all, that is to say, to make those who have been illegally taxed pay for what is owed to them. A nice pass trick! However, it is not so beautiful, since this measure is not very equitable: the old 3% tax was based on dividends, whereas the new tax contribution is based on profits. Bruno Le Maire admitted: "The scheme should create 95 winners and 233 losers, including a dozen very losers". It's a very curious conception of fairness. I keep the best for the end, if I may say so. I heard a moment ago in the mouth of our rapporteur-general: "The State is responsible for half of the reimbursement. » The State? It's François Hollande in the text. For, as you know, it is not the state, but the French that will have to pay half of the sum due, which makes Nicolas Baverez say, that I do not resist to quote: "France is the only developed country where taxpayers are obliged to compensate the State and the tax administration for their incompetence and their violations of the law. » About ten companies filed a complaint on Friday morning for concussion before the Nanterre High Court. Others will follow to Nantes or Rennes. Anyway, the show goes on. All efforts to make believe that France again loves its companies and that it protects their competitiveness will be nullified. It is no longer just amateurism, it is the image of our country that comes out diminished, captivated, ridiculed of all this affair which, I remind you, is the work of the same, of this little elite that continues to teach us the lesson and who, yesterday as today, is still in command. Let everyone, at least, take their responsibilities: not only the socialists in power yesterday, but also Emmanuel Macron, who cannot get rid of his role in this huge failure. It is called duty or honor: words, it is true, which no longer have much meaning for some today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u181	For me, they always do.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u182	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u183	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the discussion, I am not going to go back to what has been said before or to tell you about the beginnings of this dividend tax, which leads us today to vote on a draft amending finance law. If I chose not to do so, it is because I really believe that the essential thing is elsewhere. Like many of you, I come from civil society. Before standing for the vote of the French and French, I was a banking executive, concerned by the situation in my territory and in my country, but without a political mandate. By electing me, by electing us, many told me: they made the choice to move forward. If I am in front of you today, if I am committed to this collective and citizen experience, it is because, for the first time, I sincerely believe that we can transform our country. To be desirable, transformation will sometimes be difficult, but we will make every effort to find solutions that will put France back on track, even if we push the codes. This is the project of the Republic in March, a project in which I recognize myself and which the French and French wait to see realized. Today, I trust us as parliamentarians. Many of us here have the taste for debate. However, on matters of importance, the French expect us to have common sense prevail over political play. No one holds the absolute truth in life as well as in politics, and we must all remain humble and collectively know how to repair certain mistakes. Who's responsible? The question does not have to be decided here and the requested investigation will give us the answers. I repeat: the essential thing is elsewhere. It is now a matter of getting out of this situation and finding a solution. Among you, some will judge the one proposed by Bercy is not the right one and that we could do differently. Can't we always, or often, do differently? But when our minister, Bruno Le Maire, assures us that several solutions have been considered before making this decision, and that the option we are studying this afternoon is the best and most reasonable and that it takes into account our commitments and our constraints, believe it! Let's trust it! Let us give credit to this word of the State which must be ours and which we must be proud to bear. If we succeed, then you will succeed with us, and if we fail, you will also fail with us, because this is not our personal destiny, but the path France is taking. The majority know why it is here and what its objectives are. Let me remind you: create jobs for 1 million young people and 1 million French people who are very far from employment, and make France a driving country for Europe and that respects its commitments, by relaunching the European project while limiting the public deficit to less than 3% of GDP at the end of the year. This commitment brings us back to the purpose of the amending finance bill, because the solution we have found, to repay the $10 billion we owe for this tax deemed unconstitutional, should allow us not to increase the deficit. If we didn't make an amending law at the start of the year for assisted contracts, for the disabled adult allowance and for the APLs and if we defended this position to stay in the nails of the 3%, it is not today to not stand up to this new surprise left by the previous majority. The proposed solution will require the contribution of the 320 companies most able to participate in this effort because of their size and economic health. That is to say how caricatural and unbearable your accusation of "presidency of the rich" is! Rather, they should be commended for their contribution to the recovery of the country. I would add that this solution, which will be limited to a one-time measure to balance the past, does not in any way call into question our business project contained in the 2018 Finance Bill and in the 2018 to 2022 Public Finance Programming Bill. I am thinking of the gradual decline of the IS, the transformation of the CICE into a reduction of social contributions, the reform of the ISF, renamed the "tax on real estate wealth" and the introduction of the single flat-rate levy which will free up capital to encourage investment and attract investors. All these measures are sustainable. I will conclude by quoting Pierre Mendès France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u184	Very good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] "To govern is to choose. We choose to move forward. So let's move forward by adopting this PLFR widely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u187	Pierre Mendès France's natural children thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u188	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u189	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, it is Europe, what it expects from us and what we expect from it that I want to talk to you today. In the elections of May and June 2017, the French spoke out so that Europe, with the prosperity and peace it brings us, but also with its shortcomings, remains our common ideal. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition and of the majority, you can debate the meaning of these votes, but let us not deceive anyone: it is the accession to Europe, as a common area of progress and responsibility, that emerged from the vote of the French. Yes, with these elections, France has taken a date. What is the purpose of the amending finance bill that we are considering today? It enables the Republic to respect the words given, the hopes raised and the commitments made. It rebalances our budget, taking into account the position of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the dividend tax adopted in the summer of 2012 and the ruling given a few days ago by the Constitutional Council on this matter. It therefore allows our rule of law, our constitutional law and European law to be respected. It is our budgetary commitments, on which all our credibility rests, that are at stake. I now want to talk to you about Europe and its businesses. Multinationals present in France, whether French or foreign – I would point out in order to correct what was said earlier – will pay the exceptional and additional contributions that we are putting in place in this PLFR. Our SMEs, small and large, and our ITEs, which we must continue to support, will not be involved. The exceptional levy will apply in 2017 to companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion. Our political choice is to call for solidarity for those whom many accuse, by shorthand, of being above the tax laws of the Republic. At a time when, with the Paradise Papers affair, the press is carrying out its useful and legitimate task of awakening European democracies in the face of the slow and continuous lime blows against tax bases in Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u190	It is a shame that it is the press that has to do this!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u191	...we will seek from multinationals the tax revenues necessary for our fiscal balance. We are therefore concerned today about how to cover the financial consequences of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the decision of the Constitutional Council. But beyond that, we must ask ourselves the right questions. How can we ensure that Europe becomes an area where harmonised regulations make it possible to establish the right tax payable by everyone? Indeed, the more the tax base imposed by large companies collapses, the more the tax burden will be on households, at a time when budgetary constraints have increased in the Member States of the European Union. This mortifying situation for public finances is fuelling populism within the Union. Simple and harmonised tax rules should therefore be introduced, with a common tax base to avoid the use of tax optimisation schemes. A common base with responsible rates determined at European level is the only way to put an end to the perpetual race between economic actors seeking to avoid taxes and States seeking legal solutions to guarantee their revenues. It is with Europe that we must act to stem unacceptable tax competition in the European Union, whether it is practised in the Virgin Islands or in Ireland. We must support with all our strength what gives reality to the levies on the major groups, in the interest of our public finances and in order to guarantee fairness to our French and European SMEs and ETIs. We must fight against aggressive tax planning by large digital groups and other sectors. As part of this project, updating the blacklist of tax havens is now crucial. Why wait? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Fiscal seriousness and taxation are at the foundation of our Republic. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you are prepared to defend justice and fairness on all grounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u192	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u193	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u194	The meeting was resumed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u195	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, the only thing I do not have in the discussion of this amending finance bill is time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u196	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u197	I want to tell everyone who is asking for more time to look at this text. The administration has taken a long time to examine all the options and we have done the same in the Committee on Finance to discuss the various options. We will now take all the time necessary to discuss and answer all the legitimate questions that you have asked me. If we wait to resolve this problem, its cost will be fully charged to the 2017 budget and we will not honour our European commitments, weakening France's voice again. The only red line I have set is that we must properly keep the nation's accounts and respect our European commitments. You all know that if the sums do not arrive before 20 December in the accounts of the nation, we will leave the framework of the European rules and will not respect the commitments we have made towards the French. My role as Minister of Finance is to ensure that these European commitments are respected. I will now take up each of the criticisms and remarks made on this amending finance bill and answer various questions. In response to Mr Gilles Carrez's comments on the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Council, I would like to re-establish certain facts which we have already mentioned in the examination of the text in committee. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union did not invalidate the entire tax, and it was on the basis of this partial invalidation that we provided a little more than EUR 5 billion in the draft finance law and in the trajectory of public finances until 2022. We have been cautious and cautious, basing our decision on the conclusions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We have, I repeat, provided EUR 5.7 billion on the trajectory of public finances by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u198	Of which 300 million euros for 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u199	Of which 300 million euros for 2018, indeed. Is there a single parliamentarian here who could have estimated, who has written or publicly said that the Constitutional Council would invalidate the entire dividend tax? None! I am not omniscient, and no one here has been prescient about the decision of the Constitutional Council. So no one, dear Gilles Carrez, can blame us for not providing EUR 10 billion – or else, find me the statement of the honourable Member who said loud and clear that the Constitutional Council would cancel the entire dividend tax, not just part of it, as the Court of Justice of the European Union had done. The Constitutional Council has taken a severe decision. It is his right, but no one could expect this decision of October 6. As for the "tax defeat" that you are referring to, dear Gilles Carrez, believe that on the convergence of corporate tax, which is an absolute necessity within the euro area, we will move forward – you will see it, I hope, in the coming months. With regard to the international tax system, to which I will return later, I would point out that the most important progress made on the taxation of digital giants was made at the Tallinn Council of Ministers a few weeks ago, under the impetus of the President of the Republic and the French Government. We are therefore making progress in the area of taxation and it is incorrect, and above all unfair, to speak of France's "tax defeat" at a time when we are taking back our hands on fiscal convergence within the euro area and on the taxation of digital giants at European level. With regard to the risk of a break in equality, the only answer I can give you is the advice of the State Council, which found that our proposal for an amending finance bill with an exceptional contribution did not create a break in equality. It is on this decision of the Council of State that we base ourselves on presenting this text to you. We are going to the end of this reasoning of not taking any legal risk by refusing the capping of the tax, because the Council of State has dissociated the proposal for a cap which we had presented to it from the exceptional contribution. On the basis of the decision of the Council of State, we have therefore refused to propose in this amending finance bill a cap on the exceptional contribution, so as not to pose any legal risk to the state budget. The revenue adjustment and budgetary adjustments highlighted by Mr de Courson will be included in the amending finance bill which will be discussed in the Council of Ministers on 15 November. There will therefore be a correction, but it will intervene in the next amending finance bill. I invite those who have used the term "concussion" and used the terms of a press article to draw more inspiration from the law than from press articles. I will not allow the officials of the Ministry of Economy and Finance who worked on this project to be unfairly challenged. As a minister, I must defend the officials under my authority, and I will defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u201	It is a serious matter to accuse officials of concussion, because the concussion is an intentional offence: it would accuse the officials of the Ministry of Economy and Finance of having demanded the payment of a tax that they would not know was undue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u202	No legal basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u203	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The public servants, as I recall, are just applying the law. Now, the law is your vote. Let us take it to politics if you wish – we have the power, therefore the responsibilities – but do not take responsibility for the officials who are simply applying the law that you are voting here in Parliament. With regard to the confiscatory nature of this tax, which could, with the UFP, reach 75%, you forget in your calculation the 40% discount on dividends paid: the tax will therefore not reach the 75% threshold that would make it confiscatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u204	Except for real estate companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u205	As for your proposal to fully record the debt in 2017 and to crystallize it, this would mean that in 2017, the entire sum of EUR 10 billion would be debited by the State, and thus that it would get out of the nails drawn by our European bonds. We have set ourselves the goal, with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, to honour our European commitments, so to limit our public deficit to less than 3% of our national wealth for the first time in 2017, and we will keep this commitment. It is indeed one of the merits of this majority to have the courage to deliver on its commitments, whatever the circumstances and whatever hard blows that may be brought to us by political hazards. We are keeping our line, our course and our commitments, including European ones. The issue of moratorium interests, raised by Mrs Rabault and several other Members, such as Mr de Courson and Mr Carrez...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u206	And Mr. Roussel!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u207	...is perfectly legitimate. I am prepared to halve the amount of interest on this debt by EUR 10 billion, from 4.8% to 2.4%, however, under three conditions. The first is that this measure is not retroactive, as it is not possible to reduce the moratorium interest for the past. The second condition is to obtain a positive opinion from the Council of State, which we have before us of this proposal to reduce the moratorium interest on this debt by EUR 10 billion and whose opinion I am awaiting. I repeat, I will not take any legal risks on this amending finance bill – there has been too much amateurism in the past for us to have in the future. The third condition is, of course, that you agree to vote on this, but, since this proposal comes from you, we should find ways to get it to vote in the coming weeks – even if it was not within the framework of this PLFR, in the event that we would not have time to receive the opinion of the Council of State. I therefore accept your proposal, Mrs. Rabault, Mr. de Courson. We can examine it and adopt it in the coming weeks, subject to the three conditions I have just mentioned. With regard to the ratification that you have mentioned – I am referring to Article 5 – I would like to point out that it is mandatory to ratify the decree in the finance law that comes immediately after, namely, in this case, this finance law. That is why this article of ratification is included in the text proposed to you. Finally, I would like to say – but I will come back later – to all those who question the advisers, whatever they are and whatever their destiny is, that in a democracy, it is the ministers who decide, not the advisers. Ministers decide and advisors advise, and it is because ministers decide that they are responsible, and it is not the advisors who are in their place. I am sticking to this course of action, which applies to all advisers, whatever their fate may have been afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u208	We can still criticize an advisor who doesn't advise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u209	We can criticize, but questioning is a different thing. I come to the tax evasion, which you have all mentioned, on all the benches of this House. This is not an attack on the public treasury alone, but on democracy and tax consent, and it is unacceptable. The fight against tax evasion is a long-term struggle, which is not won with great blows of chin, but with obstinacy, perseverance and determination. We can all pay tribute to the work undertaken in this area by Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande. All the Presidents of the Republic have committed themselves to this fight and I can assure you that President Emmanuel Macron will continue this fight against tax evasion with the same determination as his predecessors, because it is a just, useful and indispensable fight to preserve the consent to tax in our democracies and in our nation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I will make proposals in Brussels tomorrow, at the meeting of the European Union's finance ministers, to increase the transparency of the financial or tax advisory bodies that facilitate this tax evasion and to complete the list of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – on which only one state is now included, while it should include others that have not provided the clarifications or additional information we expected from them. We will propose a tightening of sanctions against those states that facilitate tax evasion on the OECD list, which must not have access to any financing from major international bodies such as the World Bank or the IMF. Tax evasion cannot be promoted while receiving financial support from international institutions. I will conclude with two rather longer comments on the chronology of the facts and the requests for transparency addressed to me by Mrs Valérie Rabault. I am sticking to the line I have adopted since the beginning, both for the 2018 finance bill and for this amending finance bill: that of transparency, explanation and sincerity in our debates. That is what will most advance our democracy in terms of public finances. The dividend tax was created by Article 6 of the Draft Amending Finance Act of August 2012. No doubt there have been a number of comments made by certain parties in the context of its examination in the Committee on Finance, but I note, if I stick to the facts, that no one has referred the matter to the Constitutional Council on the basis of this article. I also note that the Constitutional Council itself has not dealt with this section 6 of the Draft Amending Finance Act, which introduces the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u210	While he could!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u211	It is also a fact. He could do it, but he didn't.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u212	No, he couldn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u213	Why do you say he couldn't?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u214	The Finance Committee could also do so, but it did not. [[Smile]] I also note that, as early as October 2012, an article in the Revue de droit fiscal referred to a risk of difficulties related to the adoption of this tax. The Revue de droit fiscale is certainly not necessarily the bedside reading of each of you – it is at least, as respectable and prestigious as it may be, what I wish you, unless you suffer from insomnia, in which case it could be a solution. In spite of this, as early as October 2012, and even though it had only been brought to the attention of tax law enthusiasts, a first alert had therefore been launched. I am not sticking to this one, because I readily acknowledge that it was only a matter of specialists and that you are all politicians, ladies and gentlemen, but not necessarily tax technicians. On the other hand, I note – these are only facts, and it will be up to the General Inspectorate of Finance, which will give me its report on Friday, to establish the responsibilities of each one of them in this tax of 3% on distributed revenues which is so expensive for us today – that on 27 February 2015, the French administration received a formal notice from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u215	And didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u216	The Commission challenged the compatibility of that tax with the Council Directive of 30 November 2011 on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States, known as the "mother-daughter" directive. In the following weeks, this notice was made public as it was the subject of several press articles: no one could therefore ignore, in mid-2015, that the European Commission considered this tax to be 3% contrary to the directive and therefore to European law. In May 2015, the Commission had indicated that it would refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union if France did not comply with the provisions of the Directive. I can perfectly understand that a mistake was made in 2012. Who doesn't?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u217	[[Smile]] Get him up!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u218	What I cannot understand, however, is that this tax was maintained even though in February 2015, the European Commission called on France to comply with a European tax directive. In a decision of 3 February 2016, the Constitutional Council established that the ground for breach of equality before taxation could be apprehended outside national borders and also apply to the European field: it issued a second official and public alert. In addition to the European Commission's notice, this Council decision recognises that the breach of equality may apply to the whole of the European field. As much as the first, this second alert should have led to the interruption, suspension or abolition of this dividend tax. The reality is that we have gone through the wall to the end, which leads us today to sit on a Monday night in order to find a quick and effective solution to the treatment of a debt of EUR 10 billion which the State must repay as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u219	[[At eighteen forty-five, Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u220	That is, in fact, the history of this tax. Jorge Luis Borges said: "In order to escape a mistake, you must have already committed it. So we're all in that case. It is therefore necessary to remedy this mistake by acknowledging that it was committed, by establishing the responsibilities that made it possible and by refusing to persevere: not finding a solution, refusing to vote on this amending finance bill for 2017 and to repay the EUR 10 billion would in fact be to persevere in an error that has lasted too long. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This majority will therefore not persevere in a mistake that has been made for too long. Mrs Rabault, like a number of your colleagues, you have asked for figures. You may blame me for taking too long to communicate with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u221	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u222	But patience and length of time do more than strength or rage: it was better to give you solid and established figures rather than to throw in the cantonade – that is to say, to the public – uncertain figures. That being said, the estimates I give you are theoretical, because they are based on 2016 corporate tax results: by definition, we do not know the level of 2017 tax revenues. Therefore, these figures relate only to the 2016 files. I have already told you that the product of this tax is very concentrated: the figures I will give you confirm that its burden, like its product, is extremely concentrated on the last deciles of turnover. Indeed, among the companies with a turnover of more than EUR 13.9 billion, i.e. among the largest French companies, 30 companies are liable for this exceptional contribution. 14 of them – as I mentioned in the Finance Committee – lose an average of EUR 84 million per company. In total, this represents more than EUR 1 billion, concentrated on these companies with a turnover of more than EUR 13.9 billion. In the same decile, 16 other companies are winning, for an average amount of 166 million euros. Again, there is an extreme concentration of the product – like the loss of profits – of the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u223	That's an average.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u224	Of course. At the bottom of the scale, i.e. in the first deciles concerned by this exceptional contribution, in which companies with turnover between EUR 1 billion and EUR 1.1 billion are located, there are 32 companies liable, including 26 losers, for an average amount of EUR 1.88 million, and 6 winning companies, for an average amount of EUR 4.33 million. Of all the companies covered, I would point out that there are 223 losers, for an average amount of EUR 13 million, and 95 winners, for an average amount of EUR 40 million. The first figures I have given you are particularly interesting, because they show the extreme concentration of the product of the tax on companies with a turnover of more than EUR 13.9 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I will give you all these figures in the interests of transparency that has kept me alive since the beginning of this debate. I would remind you – for the sincerity of the debate as well as for the balance between the debate we have on this contribution and what is required of the rest of French companies, that is to say nothing – that this exceptional contribution concerns only a little more than 300 companies among the millions of companies in France, which, in the vast majority, will not pay it because they are not subject to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u225	I now call the clauses of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u226	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u227	The government has the idea of saying: since in 2017, the public deficit is estimated at 2.9 billion euros, half of the painful, that is to say 5 billion euros, will be settled in 2017. It also provides for the introduction of two exceptional taxes, which, to be precise, will raise EUR 4.8 billion over the same financial year. I would add that 200 million euros have already been recovered in 2017, bringing the product to 5 billion euros. Total expenditure therefore amounts to EUR 5.2 billion and revenue to EUR 4.8 billion, a negative balance of EUR 400 million which, broadly speaking, would not degrade the balance of the government deficit. However, the mechanism envisaged by the Government did not hold. Mr Minister, I would remind you, as the High Council for Public Finance did, that in order for your case to work, it would have to be considered that the EUR 10 billion in question is not attributable to the 2017 financial year. However, the debt is certain and clear, since it corresponds to the amounts paid in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 – I am referring here to the 200 million already paid – by the companies subject to the tax: this is not a debate. As the tax is repealed, I do not see any debate on these amounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u228	Yes. There is no debate on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u229	In addition, account must be taken of the interest, which unfortunately, given the relevant texts, amounts to 4.8%. Minister, how can you estimate that only €5 billion will have to be paid in 2017, and then €5 billion in 2018? This seems totally incorrect to me: the derogation – within the meaning of the European System of National Accounts – from the exceptional and temporary measures mentioned in the last paragraph of the explanatory memorandum does not apply in this case. There is no debate on the amount of the claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u230	She's sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u231	Moreover, as you say, the revenue from the 3% tax on distributed revenues is very concentrated on 5000 companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u232	Thank you for concluding, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u233	Minister, how many are the 17 applicants who have filed an appeal, members of the French Association of Private Enterprises, Afep? You could answer us right away.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u234	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u235	I take the opportunity of this opening article to take the floor after Mr Le Maire and to ask him a question which I have already asked him when I defended the motion to refer him back to committee, but to which he did not really reply. As I understand it, the IGF is going to give you its report this week, so I would like to know whether the fiasco you have described, which is obvious, is not a scandal. You set dates, minister, and say that an article was published in 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u236	As early as 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u237	That's right! This article, published a year after the European directive known as "mother-daughter", explained the nature of the problem. You told us that in 2015, the European Commission issued a formal notice to France, and that this information had been made public. As I explained earlier, my astonishment does not weaken: Afep and the seventeen large companies did not file their appeals until 2016, that is four years after the information on the legally uncertain nature of the tax was made public. When we know that the sums collected will produce 4.8% of interest, i.e. to offer the companies concerned a gift of 1 billion euros, the IGF should broaden its scope of investigation in order to better understand how things have happened. Who knew about this? This is not about accusing public servants. In this case, given the chain of responsibilities, how is it possible that the applicants did not file an appeal until four years after the information was made public? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If the politicians could possibly not be aware – I am thinking in particular of the House – of the arcanes of this directive, I would be very surprised if the companies concerned did not have teams of lawyers capable of anticipating the responses of the different jurisdictions. They did make an excellent placement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u238	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u239	Minister, I would also like to take the opportunity of this opening statement. You said that we are making progress in the fight against tax evasion. This subject has been discussed on every bench, because of the new scandal that has just broken out. As far as we are concerned, we welcome all the progress made in this regard. That being said, fraudsters always have, as in the case of doping, a head start. Today, I have the feeling that we are attacking the Belgian pot while they are already in EPO – erythropoietin – and blood transfusions. This is the problem: if we talk a lot about this subject, the words are followed by only a few acts. Minister, are you going to ask, on behalf of France, for a conference of the parties – a COP – to be held in line with the European resolution for a Conference of the parties to world finance, harmonisation and tax justice adopted unanimously – at the initiative of Mr Alain Bocquet – by the National Assembly on 2 February 2017? If greenhouse gases make holes in the ozone layer, tax evasion makes holes in our public accounts, and that's why we proposed a tax COP. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, Minister, I have asked you a question that I would like you to answer: in the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022, you plan to spread the €5 billion – which you would like to see taken over by the French – between 2018 and 2021. Do you still intend to make such a spread over the period, or will you place the burden on 2018 alone?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u240	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u241	Minister, can you give us some details about the Constitutional Council's decision? This is a point that I did not fully develop earlier. You just said that no one could foresee this decision. However, it seems to me that this could be done almost automatically, given the priority issue of constitutionality transmitted by the Council of State to the Constitutional Council following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 May 2017. Why? Because the CJEU cancelled, on the grounds of double taxation, dividends from European subsidiaries, with the exception, of course, of French subsidiaries. From the moment that a QPC had been filed and transmitted to the Constitutional Council by the Conseil d'État by a few companies, on the grounds that the difference in treatment between the products of subsidiary securities based on the geographical location of these subsidiaries led to a breach of equality before the tax, it was easy to predict, given the consistency of the constitutional judge's jurisprudence in this matter, how he would respond: it was automatic! The Constitutional Council is indeed bound by this jurisprudence. Minister, how can you sort out, in the dividends paid, between what belongs to the subsidiaries and the parent company – which, at the limit, can be achieved – but especially between what belongs to the dividends themselves and what comes from the company's reserves every year? It is impossible to know the traceability of these reserves! Therefore, I submit that as early as the end of June, or early in July, when all the elements relating to this QPC were in your possession, you, Minister, could have prepared yourself for an overall cancellation of the 3% tax on paid revenues. However, until mid-October, we remain on the figure of 5.7 billion euros: this is what I find abnormal! I therefore hope, Mr Minister, that you will answer more specifically on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u242	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u243	It has been many years now, in many countries, that the problem of tax evasion is being addressed, and it obviously takes time. I still note with some fun that the press articles speed things up. They are often the ones who make the move to higher speed, which may not be the right way to do it. Some referred to responsibilities. It is clear, Minister, that the responsibilities are political. Determining this chain of responsibility is the whole issue of the mission that has been entrusted to the financial inspectorate, and I hope that it will make its report quickly enough so that it can be avoided in the future. We will therefore be very vigilant about the nature of this report. I'll end up on a blink of an eye. When you thought you'd only have 5 billion euros, you were planning to pay them back over four or five years; and now you're planning to repay 10 in just two years! This foot change is quite amazing on your part. Even if I can see that companies are going to be heavily involved, I would like you to explain this miracle to me. It is probably growth that encourages you to move faster. Growth facilitates everything: reform efforts, respect for 3%, etc. Without growth, you can't do anything. These periods of growth should encourage us to move even faster in many areas. You are leading the way by deciding to repay $10 billion in two years rather than $5 billion in five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u244	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u245	You are right, Mr President of the Committee on Finance: growth must encourage us to go further and faster. This is exactly our course of action. You will still allow me to see that this growth does not fall from the sky: it is due to certain decisions, but mainly to the work of the French. Everything the Government was doing was aimed at accelerating that growth in order to reduce the deficit, French debt and return to the path of prosperity. We are obliged, Mr de Courson, to wait for the appeals, to examine the claims of companies for reimbursement, to distinguish between those which are legitimate and those which are subject to a statute of limitations and those which are not. We cannot review all of these claims by the end of 2017. We therefore made the choice, based on these assessments, of these claims for reimbursement, these estimates, to provide $5 billion in 2017 and as much in 2018. INSEE has given us its green light on this distribution. As far as Eurostat's decision is concerned, I do not know by definition, as this body is, as you know, completely independent. Our decision is therefore based on both business requests and INSEE's advice. Allow us the time to properly consider each of these requests. I don't think we can handle them all in 2017. On responsibilities, Mr Coquerel, I do not want any ambiguity. It is not the press articles that form the basis of my remarks: it is the legal facts. For me, it is the fact that the European Commission has alerted the French Government that it is not complying with a European directive which is the founding fact. The day the European Commission seized the French government...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u246	In 2015!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u247	... in 2015, of this incompatibility between a tax voted by Parliament and a European directive, the warning signal must be activated. This is in any case my conception of compliance with European rules. I repeat: it is the General Inspectorate of Finance that will establish the responsibilities in the report that it will give me on Friday, and it will do so independently and independently. I'm telling you again, Mr. Roussel, how much tax evasion revolts me. It revolts me because it destroys the consent to tax, in France as in other countries, whether developed or not. It revolts me because those who engage in it are not, by definition, those who know the most difficult endings of months. It revolts me because it presupposes the complicity of States to which we have been asking for information and explanations in vain for years. It revolts me because it presupposes complicity between high-level politicians in states that do not cooperate in the fight against tax evasion and those that benefit from it. It is a long-term struggle, which was initiated by Presidents Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande. I want to pay tribute to them and assure you that President Macron will continue this fight. France has always been at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion. Be proud, on all these benches, regardless of your political convictions, that our nation has taken the lead in the fight against tax evasion. Let us not say that France is behind hands on this subject, while it has always made the fight against tax evasion one of its priorities. I myself signed last spring the OECD Convention on Strengthening the Fight against Tax Evasion, which will be incorporated into domestic law. We have obtained that the OECD Member States sign it. We're making progress. Should we be harder? Yes. Should we be firmer? Yes. Should sanctions be faster? Yes. I will propose them tomorrow at the meeting of the European Union's finance ministers. You are all aware that this phenomenon will not disappear overnight. Money always finds ways to avoid tax. The role of the State is to ensure that everyone, regardless of his or her level of wealth, regardless of his or her success, does what he or she owes to the Treasury. Believe me, my determination to fight tax evasion is complete, as is that of the President of the Republic. I will not dwell too much on the elements of the QPC, Mr. Carrez. I'll just tell you what our reasoning was. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that there should be no cancellation of the past. On the basis of this decision, we have provided EUR 5.7 billion for future repayments. The Constitutional Council decided otherwise. You yourself have used the word hardness to describe this decision, a word that I am very happy to use: this decision is hard. I respect her. I have no choice but to draw the consequences by closing the past, but I am not sure that it was possible to infer from the QPC a total cancellation of the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u248	We are addressing the review of the first part of the 2017 amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u249	Three speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u250	I do not understand your choice to provide $5 billion in 2017 and $5 billion in 2018. I find it hard to believe that half of the companies are going to rush by December 31 to get a $5 billion refund while the other half is going to wait a year. This choice is questionable. It would seem to me better, than rigorously, to register 1 billion in 2017 and the rest in 2018. Given the time it takes for companies to file their claims and for them to be heard, there will never be a $5 billion refund in 2017. But perhaps you have information about the extent of the litigation – in this case, let us say it! For the time being, those who are a little familiar with the tax technique and the tax litigation feel that this cannot work. What will happen, minister, if you have to repay much less than $5 billion in 2017? This budget choice greatly improves the 2017 accounts, but leads the 2018 accounts by several billions. I didn't understand what INSEE was doing in there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u251	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u252	Perhaps, but we know about the extent of the tax dispute and its duration, and we can spread the refund accordingly. That is why I find it difficult to understand your choice to include $5 billion in the 2017 budget. What makes you think we'll have as much to pay back in the last two months of 2017 as we do throughout 2018? I don't understand the logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u253	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u254	I agree with François Pupponi: we know that the dispute is about 10 billion, and we are constantly told about these 5 billion. You expect a return of around 4.8 billion euros from the new tax. I would like to point out, after François Pupponi, that when a court decision allows creditors to ask for up to 10 billion, it is 10 billion and not 5 billion that must be provided for national accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, we can see at what level of deficit we would be in 2017 if that were the case: we would be at 3.1 points of GDP. In addition, the High Council notes in its opinion that "the costing of the proposed scheme presents uncertainties. With regard to treatment in national accounts, the Government's assumption is similar to that applied to previous standard tax disputes. » Secondly, Joël Giraud's excellent report states that in 2018 repayments will far exceed the budgetary gain and that the government deficit is expected to deteriorate by 4.4 billion euros; the High Council explains that this should be taken into account in the establishment of the FLP for 2018. If this were the case, the deficit would already be 2.8 percentage points of GDP instead of 2.6. These two questions deserve further clarification from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u255	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u256	[[Laughs]] You're doing Brel, minister, you wanted to see the drop and we saw the rise! Everyone lowers the IS rate, even Trump! The infamous president has just proposed to raise the U.S. rate from 36 to 18%! In Luxembourg, where it is 21%, it will be 18 in 2018. In Spain, it is already 25% and Britain, where it is at 20, wants to raise it to 15% by 2020 – it is voted. Everyone agrees with the effort to raise it to 25%, even our socialist colleagues, who had voted this measure – late it is true – but this rate remains above average. So you see that starting with a huge increase in this rate – up to 45%! – it's losing all credibility, like Brel's lover. My second point concerns accounting. You have explained to the High Council, which mentions this in its opinion, that you do not rely on the first part of the famous Article 20.189 of the European System of Accounts – SEC – according to which "the time when the expenditure or revenue is recorded corresponds to the moment when the beneficiaries have an automatic and indisputable right to payment of an amount which can be determined individually, and that it is unlikely that the beneficiaries do not claim what is due to them. However, this is the case here, since the tax was invalidated. Minister, you were talking about a tax prescription, but there is no tax, since there is no tax. As the tax has disappeared, it is a debt. That is why you have estimated an amount of around 10 billion euros over two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u257	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u258	Mr Minister, I heard you say a moment ago, in terms that I consider to be sincere, that tax evasion is a resentment. For my part, in most cases, I would add this legal way of cheating on tax optimisation. I could ask you how many officials will be hired at the Ministry of Finance to control a little more such an escape, or why we still have not put in place differential taxation for the French who work abroad, precisely so as to verify what in this behavior is a matter of the willingness to work abroad and what is a matter of tax evasion or optimisation. Above all, I note that the biggest decision taken to combat tax evasion is in fact to reduce corporate taxes as much as possible, a measure that Mr de Courson defends. In other words, your message is: "Do you do tax evasion? Don't worry, we don't impose you anymore. This is the logic today of a European Union without tax harmonisation. Hence my reaction to this article. Of course, there is the question of the form, the legality, but what is the substance of this directive, which is actually aimed at encouraging tax optimisation? What is the substance of the Constitutional Council's decision to introduce a levelling down? The decision is to say that because the subsidiaries of the parent companies can no longer be taxed in the European Union, no subsidiary can be taxed. Therefore, if we dispute such a policy on the merits, which is our case, but not yours, I understand, we are forced to charge this penalty to those who today are asking us for money unfairly. That is why we will propose in our amendments that you double the rate you charge for the corporate tax contribution. The question now arises, therefore, not so much as that of the form or legality of the imposed norm as that of the substance. For our part, we are contesting this fiscal optimisation, we are contesting the fact that we are giving more and more to those who for years have been spoiled by this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u259	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u260	I would quickly like to take part in the continuation of the statements made by François Pupponi and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. I find it difficult to understand, for my part, how you will be able to account for up to 5 billion claims for litigation as early as 2017. In its opinion, the High Council explains that "the amount withheld in public deficit 2017 will ultimately depend on the timing of the processing of individual files by the tax administration. Although a number of litigations have already been brought before the Montreuil Administrative Court, the cases still need to be validated individually by the tax administration. It is not because a general decision of the Constitutional Council is taken that the tax administration must take the amounts claimed as cash. However, it is not obvious to recalculate all these amounts. So we find it difficult to understand how we're going to repay EUR 5 billion in a few weeks, when it wasn't expected to be so long ago to repay them over four years. It's a mystery I'm asking you to clarify, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u261	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u262	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u263	These big companies, these financial groups have still won a great victory: they get a refund of the modest tax that was applied to them for five years out of 300 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u264	Modest? It was two billion a year, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u265	These billions of euros are going to be repaid to them, and we should almost apologize today to increase their corporate taxes so that they can pay part of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u266	The contributors are not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u267	It's still amazing, Mr. de Courson! So we should continue with this logic to reduce corporate taxes even further? We should align ourselves with Luxembourg, Trump's United States or, why not, Bermuda? How far will we go? Let me quote from Mr. Reginald Appleby, the founder of this famous tax evasion firm at the heart of the scandal we're talking about right now. This gentleman was a congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u268	From his modest territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u269	[[Smile]] In 1898 – not since yesterday – he had said about income tax, that it was then a question of introducing into the Bermuda archipelago, that it was "the ultimate refinement of human torture, which must be opposed at all costs. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u270	He was a humanist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u271	He did it because there is still no income tax in Bermuda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u272	As in Polynesia!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u273	And we'd have to follow the same logic? Tax havens are a real hell, and the real question is how to get out of them. You are now proposing to increase corporate tax for large multinationals. Even if we are told that there are winners and losers, it is incredible to see that some companies will win with this operation! What we want is not only for companies to participate in the effort, but also for this contribution to be sustained.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u275	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back to both the procedure and the timetable. My intervention at the rostrum earlier was aimed at preventing a situation like the one we are experiencing today from reoccurring. You said, Minister, that a letter from the European Commission had been sent to the previous government in March 2015. However, Article 104 of the 2014 Finance Act provides that the Parliament, and in particular the finance committees of each assembly, shall automatically receive, every six months, letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions sent by the European Commission which may have an impact on the finances of the State. A letter was sent in 2015, but was not sent to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u277	Thanks to the press!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u278	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] We therefore solemnly call here for the full implementation of this article so that, on a regular and complete basis, we parliamentarians can fully do our work and be informed of ongoing litigation, priority issues of constitutionality, and letters sent to the Government and France by the European Commission, in order to draw all the budgetary consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u279	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u280	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u281	[[Smile]] Monsieur de Courson, I don't know if I'm doing Brel, but you're doing Brassens: all behind, all behind and him in front! You're the little white horse of corporate tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u282	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u283	Always lower, always ahead, in front of the United States, in front of the Cayman Islands, in front of the Virgin Islands... We are already reducing the corporate tax rate from 33.3% to 25%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u284	That's not enough for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u285	Our goal is not to be the best-known corporate tax, but rather to have a fair, stable and effective tax. I would like to close the debate on the 5 billion for 2017 and the 5 billion for 2018 in one last attempt, no doubt vain; Who doesn't try anything has nothing. Today we have €2.5 billion in recovery before the Montreuil Administrative Court, and €5.3 billion in claims filed and registered that remain to be examined. We estimated that we could handle 50% of them, or about 2.6 billion euros. In total, this is about EUR 5 billion. Today, we have €7.8 billion in claims, whether processed or not; the rest will come later. That's why we've planned $5 billion in 2017, and in 2018 we'll add $5 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u286	Out of interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u287	... without interest, in respect of new claims and outstanding claims. To answer Mr Pupponi's question, I would like to point out that we presented this choice to INSEE and obtained a green light from him. It is important to set out what can be attributed to fiscal year 2017 and what can be attributed to fiscal year 2018. To be completely transparent, this does not prejudge Eurostat's decision, which is independent and may have a different opinion, which I do not want. Mrs de Montchalin, I fully agree with your remarks: Parliament must learn from what has happened; As a member of the executive, this is not my responsibility. A letter from the European Commission was distributed in the press, and it was not a technical body but a general public. Everyone, as early as 2015, knew that France was not in compliance with a European directive, even though Parliament did not have all the information.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u288	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u289	As I explained in the general discussion, we are against the solution advocated by the Government. It is far too dangerous legally, and it shows a rise in rates as all countries try to lower them. She has all the drawbacks. Since we are constructive, we propose to adopt a solution that we had already adopted for tax claims required by court decisions: to crystallize the debt by including interest on arrears, and to provide for a 10-year repayment plus the interest rate of the TSOs, the equivalent bonds of the treasury, to spread the burden. This is tantamount to issuing representative bonds that companies in need can mobilise in cash. The problem of the 4.8% interest rate that you mentioned in your presentation is thus resolved, Minister. Philippe Vigier recalled this, and to a lesser extent Gilles Carrez, you yourself have very honestly acknowledged it, Mr.Minister: neither you nor I will decide how the $10 billion will be charged between fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018. This depends on the speed with which claims are processed. This is one of the weaknesses of your thesis. If I were Eutelsat, I could object to you voluntarily stopping the investigation of the files so that the sum of the recoveries does not exceed 5 billion euros. You could very well give discreet orders so that there are only 3 or 4 billion this year; You would then be in trouble in 2018, because according to your thesis, you would only report. On the contrary, I support that Eutelsat will strictly apply the rule and that it will be EUR 10 billion; Then your reasoning will not hold at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u290	This is Eurostat, Monsieur de Courson, not Eutelsat, who is a satellite operator!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u291	Now it's becoming a satellite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u292	Yes, it is Eurostat that decides, as I have told you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u294	If you crystallize the debt, Mr de Courson, we will have a problem with the excessive deficit procedure, because we will exceed 3% of GDP in 2017. In addition, you are challenging the legal instability of the government system, while such a set-up has already been used without any such problems. And the legal stability of the scheme you are proposing is not itself very tested, as you risk depriving the companies concerned of the sums owed to them under the Constitutional Council's decision. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u296	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u297	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u298	I love you very much, Mr rapporteur-general, but I cannot accept these arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u299	Yes, a little weak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u300	My position is based on the fact that the situation of the 5000 companies that have paid the famous 3% dividend tax for four years is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u301	Mr. Giraud, you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u302	It puts an end to the debates on the constitutionality of the surtax or on attempts to compensate it, which we will return to later. We can even stop the whole discussion! And take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u303	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u304	The solution arbitrarily places a burden on companies whose turnover exceeds EUR 1 billion, regardless of their profits or their choice of investment and dividend payments. This amendment therefore proposes the addition of a new tranche to the exceptional corporate tax contribution planned for 2017 for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 300 million. Its objective is to change the rates of the two higher tranches in order to reduce the pressure borne by the 320 enterprises covered by the original scheme. On the basis of the information available and in such a short time, it was not possible to calculate the adjustment of the two planned rates. In any event, this proposal shows that you could have done otherwise, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u306	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment places the burden on a large number of mid-size companies – ETI.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u308	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u309	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u310	I would point out, however, that the cancelled tax was paid by 5000 companies, whose turnover was more than EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u311	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u312	The threshold proposed by Lise Magnier could therefore be further reduced. Indeed, for companies whose turnover is between 50 million and 1 billion euros, bingo: we reimburse them all the sums paid!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u313	That's all benef '!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u314	This is, in fact, a breach of equality, it seems to me. It would be interesting for the Minister and the rapporteur-general to give their opinion on this sensitive point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u315	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u316	It aims to ensure that the French do not have to repay 5 billion euros in 2018, in any form. If we vote for a new tax that increases the amount of corporate tax paid by large companies, let's make sure that it returns the €10 billion to be repaid! That is why this amendment, together with Amendment No 14, proposes to extend the base of the additional contribution on companies to companies with turnover between EUR 500 million and EUR 1 billion. They improve its progressivity by creating three distinct rates. Amendment No 15 also proposes to make this exceptional tax permanent in the form of a solidarity tax, which will prevent French taxpayers from having to repay dividends paid by large multinationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u318	Unfavorable opinion for the reasons mentioned earlier. Both amendments extend the additional contribution to many ITEs. Amendment No 15 also proposes that it should be sustained, although it is of course a matter of paying a debt and not of persevering a surtax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u319	It's not nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u321	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u322	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u323	This amendment raises good questions about the remaining EUR 5 billion. I would like to take this opportunity to question the Minister. You mentioned 223 losers and 95 winners earlier. So I multiplied 13 million euros by 223, or 2.9 billion euros for the losers, and 40 million euros by 95, or 3.8 billion euros for the winners. As a result, the winners will get 3.8 billion euros, more than the 2.9 billion euros lost. Is that how you're supposed to hear what you're saying, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u324	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u325	Lost, yes and no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u326	Call it whatever you want, Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u327	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u328	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u329	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u330	I've already defended him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u331	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u332	I, in turn, would like to insist on the sustainability of this exceptional contribution. If it is possible to levy it this year, it should also be possible to levy it next year, which would allow, on the one hand, to clear the deficit imposed by the refund of the dividend tax resulting from its invalidation in two years, and, on the other hand, to have additional revenue in the coming years in order to meet the new expenditure. It would also make it possible to get out of the excessive deficit procedure, which I know is of great concern to you, Minister. That is our proposal: if this contribution is possible this year, it must be made in the following years. Let's get her through, we need resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u334	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment proposes the continuation of a tax which is not intended to be taxed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u335	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u336	In the general discussion, I raised one problem among others: the breakdown of equality between companies. Indeed, some companies did not distribute dividends from 2013 to 2016 and are in surplus in 2017. They will therefore pay the additional contribution even though they have not paid the 3% dividend tax. It seems to me that there is a reason for a breach of equality. Amendment No 43 has two parts. He proposed that the period 2013 to 2017 should be taken into account in the calculation of surpluses and possible deficits. If a company is in deficit for three years and in excess in 2017 only, the additional contribution will not be paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u337	It's an incentive to carry back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u338	Dear colleague, you have not read the text of the Government, which precisely determines the amount of the exceptional contribution before imputation of the tax claims, which makes any carry back unnecessary. If I understand the Government's text correctly, it includes an anti-carry back pill, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u340	Unfavorable opinion. Your amendment, my colleague, compromises the performance of the exceptional contribution. Indeed, it leads to the exemption of most companies because of the substantial reductions it proposes. In addition, previous deficits can be carried forward, reducing the amount of corporate tax owing. Beneficiary companies in 2017, but with deficits in their accounts, will be able to charge them under the conditions laid down by ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u342	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u343	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u344	It proposes to spread the exceptional contribution over two fiscal years. Indeed, it is very likely that its concentration on a single company will encourage companies to optimize – let's say so – their results, for example by using the provisions' allocations, which is more difficult to achieve if it is spread over two years. Moreover, as I pointed out earlier in the general discussion, the planned scheme effectively punishes companies whose results will be consistent and even exceptional in 2017. It therefore seems to me preferable to allocate this contribution over two fiscal years, 2017 and 2018. Similarly, I propose to divide the rate of increase by two.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u345	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u347	On the subject of smoothing, the minister and I spoke in the gallery just now. I propose, Mr President, that you withdraw your amendment in favour of Amendment No 47, which I will defend earlier on in establishing a smoothing mechanism with the Government's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u348	Amendment No 47 does not propose a smoothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u349	The proposed mechanism is different, I agree. We have referred to this subject in committee at your initiative, my colleague, and at Mrs Magnier's. We have reached a compromise which is repeated in Amendment No 47. I therefore suggest that the amendment should be withdrawn, failing which an unfavourable opinion should be delivered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u351	Unfavorable opinion. This proposal is one of the many options we have studied with the tax administration. We have not reached the solution we have chosen overnight. The solution of liquidating the problem over two fiscal years, 2017 and 2018, ensures fiscal stability and legibility. We have considered the spread of the contribution, but it seems to us to be less effective and less legible than the resolution of the problem in two fiscal years that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u352	Do you maintain the amendment, Mr Carrez?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u353	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u354	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u355	After listening to the minister's answer, I support the fact that Gilles Carrez' amendment has at least one merit, that of working. The new provision, which certainly runs the risk of being appealed to the Constitutional Council, would thus be installed for two years, 2017 and 2018. We have completed our review of the first part of the 2018 Finance Bill, which deals with revenues. Your disposition, Minister, does not yet exist. We'll have to register it somewhere. How can we smooth the transaction for 2017 at the end of the year? I've always praised Gilles Carrez's common sense. You'd probably better listen to his wise advice. In addition, implementing this measure for 2017 alone weakens your device. Implement it over two years, 2017 and 2018! Make a smoothing to improve readability, as well as safety!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u357	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u358	I have read article 1 carefully, minister. The Carrez amendment raises the problem of tax optimisation that could result. Indeed, in the face of such a brutal and massive increase...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u359	And so sudden!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u360	... what management decisions will the companies concerned take? Our colleague Mattei, Emeritus Accountant, will tell you. Companies with a turnover of more than EUR 5 billion, whose amount of corporate tax they pay will increase by 30%, will use all the techniques of provisioning and accelerated depreciation, which are still time to proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u361	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u362	The result will not be an additional revenue, but a risk of a fall in corporate income!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u363	Not in November!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u364	There are many possibilities for modulation of the results, especially since this is a one-off measure focusing solely on the benefits achieved in 2017. Mr Carrez's amendment, if it did not solve the problem, had at least the merit of limiting the damage, by reading the measure over two years. I am prepared to bet that your forecasts will not be achieved and that the results will be in free fall. Unfortunately, you do not take this into account, since you expect the profits of the companies concerned to grow in 2017 by more than 8%, whereas on average you expected only a little less than 5% – I refer to your impact assessment. You can see that Mr Carrez has raised a huge problem. The only anti-optimisation device implemented is to retain the profit excluding tax debts, in order to avoid the carry back effect that our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei had immediately spotted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u365	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u366	We can only thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for offering us this little satisfaction. Now you are preparing – everything can happen, decisively – to involve large companies, and you seem to be joining us, at least in part, on the fact that taxpayers do not have to pay those 10 billion instead of those companies that have paid 300 billion dividends in five years. Perhaps we could celebrate this progress together, in the same way that you recently welcomed the wrong blows you made to Social Security when the Social Security Funding Bill was passed. The contribution requested from large companies is still very relative, as it is in fact only a matter of taking over some of the gifts that will be given to them. In return for the EUR 10 billion you offer them in the finance bill, you ask them to support half of the additional EUR 10 billion that the state will offer them as a result of the cancellation of the 3% dividend tax. Even if the progress is meagre, it is already a first step towards our economic proposals. We are satisfied with this, but in order to continue to move together in the same direction and to show a little more ambition, we propose to increase this contribution from 15 to 30% for all companies that will be subject to it. You'll see, we're getting a taste for fighting inequality. Since Jacques Brel was quoted, I would simply ask you, Minister, not to leave us in the middle of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u369	The SI rate plus the additional contribution would be increased to 54.43 per cent, which has never been achieved. That is not the goal of this government, nor of this majority. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u370	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u371	Mr Joël Giraud, in support of Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u372	As far as smoothing is concerned, this amendment tends to propose a mechanism to limit as much as possible the potentially significant threshold effects of the two proposed contributions between EUR 1 and EUR 1.1 billion and between EUR 3 and EUR 3.1 billion. The objective is to reduce the rate of each of the two contributions when the company's turnover does not far exceed the entry threshold. If it leads to a shortfall of around 70 million euros, it will alleviate the burden of the companies concerned in the interests of fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u374	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u375	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u376	I will vote for this amendment, but acknowledge that it is cosmetic in nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u377	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u378	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 38 and 44. Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u379	In Article 1, the Government uses the concept of a fiscally integrated group to assess turnover thresholds and the tax base, i.e. the groups that have chosen this status and whose subsidiaries are more than 95 per cent owned. However, the mutualist groups have a certain particularity, which we had already noted in 2012. They benefit from a special provision in the tax code to qualify their integration regime. This amendment tends to take this into account by appreciating turnover and result only at the level of the subsidiaries, as it is they who own the mother and not the other way round.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u380	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u381	Let us recall the debates that took place here on 19 July 2012, because it is not always in vain to refer to the old world. The problem of mutualist groups was then raised. Mr Carrez has subtly recalled the specificity of these mutual banking groups: it is not the mother who owns the girls, but the daughters who own the mother. [[Rires on several benches]] That is why we had taken out of the famous dividend tax the mothers-daughters while the daughters-mothers – if I may say so – were taxed. I refer you to the debates of the time. Mr. Carrez had explained that the mutualist groups had the peculiarity of being in reverse pyramids, and that the girls possessed the mother. Mr. Philippe Vigier agreed, and Mr. Cahuzac replied, "A whole program." With these two amendments, we propose that you take up the measure adopted in 2012: to leave the integrated system of inverted mutual banking groups, in which the girls own the mother. It's not the mother who will pay for the girls. Because it's up to the girls to pay, we have to get out of the integrated banking mutual groups. I very much welcome these amendments in order to make a rather sharp problem clear. Everyone laughs, but I think everyone understands, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u382	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u383	I have not understood the relationship between mother and daughter in this family reunion, but it seems to me that, as it is drafted, this amendment cannot have any effect. Not all companies in a tax-integrated group are liable for corporate tax. Only the parent company is involved in mutual groups. It is the central body that is the sole responsibility of the IS. The amendment would therefore lead to the payment by each group entity of a contribution based on a tax that it does not pay. It can't work. On the other hand, it would be risky to provide for a special regime for mutual groups that have chosen fiscal integration. The risk of a break in equality seems important to me. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u384	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u385	[[Laughs and applause on several benches]] Beyond the particularly convincing technical explanations of the rapporteur-general, we had Brel, then Brassens, and now Renaud: it is not the girl who takes the mother, it is the mother who takes the daughter. Despite all my love for the French song, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u386	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u387	It's a real problem. We know the organisation of these public limited companies where parent companies hold subsidiaries via the companies they have emancipated. In practice, they are usually mutual banks. All the antennas we find throughout our territory hold some of the national headquarters. That is the way in which the mother-daughter societies operate: the majority of the girls are women, and all the subsidiaries hold the entire mother-house. However, your provision could seriously penalize three French groups. If they achieve results, these groups do not distribute dividends. You are about to draw no less than EUR 1 billion, which is deeply unfair. While they do not distribute dividends and have not been subject to the 3% tax in the past, you will impose additional taxes on them. Mr Carrez's amendment is an amendment of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u388	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u389	The rapporteur-general is wrong. It is at the request of the central bodies of the three networks of mutual banks – Crédit Agricole, Crédit Mutuel and Banque Populaire – that the system through which the mother pays has been put in place. But since the mother is the property of the girls, it is up to them to abound the mother, who cannot afford to pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u390	But it's still the mother who pays!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u391	Our proposal is perfectly valid. It also takes up the measure decided in 2012, which proved to be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u392	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u393	In this case, they are not considered to be integrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u394	This was a contribution exemption in 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u395	Be aware of the scope of your device: of the 5 billion, no less than 1.2 billion will be borne by the three banking networks! It's huge! If you retain our amendment, we fall to about half – 650 million. You maintain your position on the basis of a false argument: integration is a request accepted by the administration, but you can very well decide not to apply it and to calculate enterprise by enterprise – i.e., regional bank by regional bank.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 7:55 p.m. and we still have 36 amendments to consider. We agree to extend this meeting, but the pace should be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u397	It's a $5 billion subject, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u398	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u399	I understand you, Mr President, but several hundred million euros, even billions, are at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u400	We can also resume the meeting at 9.30 p.m. to extend the discussion throughout the evening and even at night; But that's not what the groups decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u401	I agree with the comments made by Messrs. Carrez and Courson, and I do not fully agree with the rapporteur-general. To re-read the proposed amendments, it is clear that there has been a contribution exemption for the mutual sector, as a result of this reversal of the hierarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u402	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u403	However, Minister, you do not take this provision into account. You may think that the amendments made by Messrs. Carrez and Courson go too far, but what do you answer to the mutualist groups which, in fact, are a French specificity, which we do not find in the capitalist schemes of other countries, but which, in 2012, had been the subject of special treatment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u404	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u405	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u406	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u407	This is a serious subject on which, to tell you everything, we have been shooting for several days. Mrs Dalloz, we have been working on this day and night for more than a week because, as we recognise, the burden on mutual groups is very important. I have received each of the leaders of these groups. I talk to their presidents very regularly on the phone. We have considered all possible and conceivable solutions together, in particular the setting of a ceiling of EUR 300 million, EUR 250 million or EUR 200 million. We have submitted to the Council of State a proposal for a draft amending finance law instituting the contribution, the exceptional contribution and the ceiling, in order to meet the specific demand of the mutualist groups – I am the first to be aware of the considerable effort they are being asked to make, and the first to understand that this is a problem in relation to the rest of the banking system. The ceiling was disjointed by the Council of State. Therefore, I did not see myself asking you to adopt a ceiling that would be censored by the Constitutional Council. That would not have been responsible. We have studied the possibilities of spreading. We find the same in your amendments, many of which tend to lower the ceiling below EUR 1 billion. But sincerely, if you lower the ceiling to 500 million euros, you will reduce revenue while increasing the number of contributors. It's not a good solution either. Your amendment, however interesting it may be, aims to provide mutualist groups with tax treatment different from that for other banks. I am convinced that it would introduce a breach of equality before the tax and would be punished as such. I am fully aware of the effort required of the three mutualist groups, who are facing great difficulties, Mrs Dalloz is right to point out. We are looking together at everything that can be done to compensate for their loss of earnings, but for the moment there is no solution on the table. Again, with this amendment, I will not take the risk of a sanction on the grounds that there is a breach of equality before the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u408	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u409	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u410	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u411	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u412	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u413	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u414	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u415	This amendment, adopted by the Finance Committee, aims to postpone by five days the date of payment of the advance payment for all companies that will pay the last advance of the corporate tax on 15 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u416	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u417	Favourable opinion on this proposal considered in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u418	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u419	Explain to me, Mr General, how can a company that closes its accounts on 19 February 2018 pay its down payment on 20 December 2017? Perhaps our fellow accountants, some of whom are brilliant group spokespersons, will be able to enlighten me on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u420	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u421	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u422	Please refer to the table in Article 360 bis of the CGI, which sets out the deadlines for instalment payments for a fiscal year based on the closing dates of the previous fiscal year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u423	We didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u424	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u425	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u426	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u427	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u428	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u429	Editorial accuracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u430	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u431	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u432	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u433	The aim of this amendment is to lower the threshold from which interest on late payment and the 5% increase apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u434	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u435	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u436	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u437	I withdraw it in favour of Amendment No 20 from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u438	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u439	Coordination amendment, in particular for the department of Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u440	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u441	It is intended to clarify that the exceptional contribution and the additional contribution are not deductible from the taxable income of the liable corporations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u442	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u443	Favourable opinion on this amendment, in favour of which I withdrew Amendment No 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u444	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u445	It seems to me logical that the exceptional contribution and the additional contribution are not deductible, but I have a question that is the symmetrical of this amendment: how does the Government intend to deal with the principal and interest of the 3 per cent tax? In other words, will the 10 billion payments, whether over one or two years, be considered an exceptional profit, both for the principal and for the interests or only for the interests?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u446	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u447	It seems to me that this is an exceptional non-taxable contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u448	Interests too?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u449	Interests, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u450	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u451	I come back to the issue of the interest we would have to pay – EUR 1 billion for 9 billion of taxes levied on dividends. The time has come to question the amount that these interests have been able to achieve in such a short time. You have already considered lowering the rate, reducing it by half; Since you are proposing to increase the IS to recover some of what we are going to return to businesses, it would be a good idea to include all of the interests. I welcome the Government's intention to reduce interest, but justice would like us not to pay any!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u452	I have before me two amendments, Nos 42 and 45, which can be presented together. Mr Charles de Courson has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u453	These amendments raise the problem of for-profit social economy enterprises. Not distributing dividends, they were not subject to 3%. However, in the current drafting of the text, these companies will be taxable if their turnover exceeds 1 billion. The companies in the social economy have brought the matter before us. Are there companies of this type that would potentially be affected? If so, they should be exempted. That is the purpose of the second amendment, the first of which is to establish a threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u455	I am not sure that many non-profit social enterprises have such a turnover. The contribution does not depend on the dividends paid and the amounts of repayment that may be collected. In addition, not-for-profit organizations are in principle not subject to SI. They should therefore not pay the contributions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u456	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u457	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u458	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u459	There are SCOPs whose turnover exceeds 1 billion. The question is simple: do you want to tax them?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u460	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u461	This text will probably be voted on earlier, when we have not obtained any specific information, apart from the oral clarifications that the minister has kindly given on the winners and losers. We must be well aware that, on the one hand, repayments will reach more than 9 billion, and on the other hand, a surtax will be introduced, for more than 5 billion. These are huge sums! At the very least, the breakdown of gains and losses should be known. I therefore propose that the Government provide Parliament with a report as early as 1 December, which analyses the consequences of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u462	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u463	Wisdom, in the context of respect for tax secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u464	The information will be expressed by decile, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u465	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u466	The Government's approach to taxation is consistent: simplification, simplicity and transparency. I think I've brought you and Mrs. Rabault all the necessary information. I am not opposed to this proposal, if national representation considers it useful to have a report on the implementation of this exceptional contribution. I would remind you that this measure is a result of past mistakes, for which this government is not responsible. I would like the roles not to be reversed: the Government is providing solutions to a problem. I rely on the wisdom of the congregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u467	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u468	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u469	Minister, thank you for your openness. Do you intend to provide the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee with the report on the financial inspection?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u470	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u471	I'm not asking for reports to keep them at the bottom of a drawer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u472	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u473	[[Smile]] Thank you for your open mind, Minister. I would like to point out, for the culture of our colleagues, that since the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents – CADA – has made it possible to access the financial inspection reports, there are two reports: the one submitted to the minister, and the one that is communicable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u474	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u475	The REM Group will vote for these amendments. Beyond this report and the date of December 1, 2017, it would be useful for the Minister to take stock at the end of the procedure, explain to parliamentarians how things have happened or provide details on payment deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u476	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u477	It's a good thing to ask for a report. But this report should present all the data and the possibilities of communicating vases, in other words, everything we are voting at the end of the year. How many companies will benefit from the abolition of the ISF or the introduction of the flat tax? This would allow us to properly assess the extent of tax gifts to businesses, including the refund of the tax. The scope of the amendment should be expanded.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u478	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u479	I welcome the proposal by Mr Carrez and his group, which will make it possible to strengthen transparency and enlighten our House. We will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u480	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 1. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u481	I would like to take this text back to an amendment concerning SMEs, which is not directly linked – even if it is about corporate tax – but which I very much care about. All SMEs were to benefit from a reduced corporate tax rate of 15% on the first €38120 net income on 1 January 2019. However, according to the 2018 Finance Bill, some SMEs – 20,000 according to the general rapporteur's figures – are excluded from this scheme. I am told that these are big SMEs for which they do not represent a lot of money. However, as the European Union has adopted a single definition of SMEs – an enterprise with an annual turnover of less than EUR 50 million – it would be good if we did so. I am aware of the cost of this measure, but I hope that we can send a message to all SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u482	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u483	I will give an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments which do not fall within the scope of the PLFR 'Blitz' but which will probably find their place in the PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u484	I have before me six amendments, Nos 34, 35, 37, 4, 36 corrected and 51, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 4, 36 and 51 are identical. I call Mr Dussopt to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u485	The rate of interest moratoriums has been set at 4.8 per cent since 2006. The NG Group's amendment aims at lowering it to the legal interest rate of 0.9%, which is more adapted to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u486	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u487	The NG Group has tabled a series of amendments on interest moratoriums, the rate of which is set by law. Now, we are gathered here to make the law. It is necessary to adapt this rate to the economic situation. The last change was in 2006, when the TSO rate was 4%. Today, the figure is 0.6 per cent. It is now time to review the rate of interest moratoriums. We make several proposals for its level: 2.4%, 1.2% or the legal rate. The Minister previously indicated his preference for a rate of 2.4%. We will be delighted if he adopts any of our proposals. This will save money on the state budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u488	I believe that Amendment No 37 has been defended. Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u489	It turns out, O miracle, that the amendment meets exactly the criteria set by the minister an hour ago: a moratorium interest rate divided by two – I do not take up Mrs Rabault's excellent arguments – an amending finance law to amend it. Only one condition is not fulfilled: the Council of State was not consulted, and for cause. It seems to me that we can go beyond this lack of consultation, especially since the case is quite simple – the older ones remember the debates in 2006 on setting the rate. Minister, you highlighted the need for non-retroactivity. Of course, the measure as drafted is not retroactive. It allows for a substantial economy. If your colleague Gérald Darmanin was next to you tonight, he would probably be very pleased with this amendment, which I regret has not been adopted by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u490	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No 36 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u491	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u492	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u493	There's no reason! Our amendment is identical to that of Mr Carrez and Mrs Rabault, or is it the opposite? In any case, three groups proposed the same amendment, i.e. the two-fold division of the rate of interest on moratoria. I hope that, on this point, we will be heard, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u494	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u495	I have delivered an unfavorable opinion in committee, because the proposed reduction concerns only the interests owed by the State. On the substance, I would rather support such an amendment, but it would be appropriate to extend it to interest on late payment by taxpayers. The interest is intended to compensate for the damage suffered as a result of the price of time. Given the low interest rates on the current market, it turns out that the current level of interest on late payments is much more than compensation for damage by the Treasury. It therefore seems desirable to reduce not only the rate of interest on moratoria but also interest on late payments. In conclusion, if you agree, I propose to withdraw all the amendments, not so that they end up in limbo, but on the contrary that the issue be settled in the "traditional" PLFR, in a comprehensive manner and by providing for legally undisputed implementing arrangements. I think that's also what the minister said earlier. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u496	On identical amendments Nos 4, 36 and 51, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Since no one wishes to withdraw his amendment, I seek the advice of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u497	I regret the refusal to withdraw these amendments, since, I repeat, the Government will not take any legal risks. On the substance, I told Mrs Rabault, to Messrs. Carrez and Courson, as well as the various groups, I am in favour of reducing the amount of interest on moratoria. Division by two seems to me to be a balanced position. But the Council of State has not validated this measure. Personally, I will not submit any text to Parliament which has not received a favourable opinion from the Council of State. I express an unfavorable opinion – I would have preferred you to withdraw these amendments – but I am committed to include this proposal in the draft amending finance law that will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the week of 13 November. I'm making a formal commitment, I'm not burying this idea that's good. Everyone here wants to renew Parliament's methods, it seems to me that not taking systematic legal risks in the texts voted for could contribute to this. I undertake to reintroduce your proposal into the PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u498	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u499	As Valérie Rabault said, setting the rate of interest moratoriums is one of Parliament's prerogatives. I do not see what the Council of State's assessment could do. This beautiful parliamentary initiative brings together a number of groups. I am also a little surprised that I do not hear Mrs de Montchalin and the La République group working on our proposal, which aims to save the State. 4.8% in 2017, it doesn't make sense! Let's not wait another month. The rapporteur-general told us earlier that he would answer only questions relating to the text we are considering. We're taking him back to savings. I'm sure he'll follow her.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u500	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u501	Since I'm under arrest...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u502	With delicacy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u503	...always! We are very cordial on these benches. It is essential that on such matters we do not take the risk of having a whole device dropped by a hasty arrangement. Nevertheless, as I said in the Committee on Finance, and in accordance with the Group's position, the absence of changes in interest rates since 2006, when some rates have even fallen below zero, shows that there is a need for coherence between the budgetary and economic fields. We do not live in an ethereal budgetary world. If this measure is included in the next PLFR, which arrives in fifteen days – it is an effort of patience that we will be able to achieve – it does not exempt us in the years that have come to maintain consistency with the interest rates of the financial markets. The economic world, the financial world and the budgetary world are not detached from each other. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] For the sake of legal solidity and for the sake of respect for the Council of State which has been seized, it seems to me premature to vote this evening on a provision which, I assure you, will be at the heart of our amendments, if the government copy does not allow it, in the PLFR which arrives in two weeks' time. We are able to endure the wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u504	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u505	We are at the heart of the contradiction of this text. You want to move it at all speed to try to protect yourself, it seems, against bad news on the balance – which I dispute. At the same time, you do not include all the elements that contribute to solving the problem. Since it is a subject in itself, it must be dealt with completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u506	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u507	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u508	If you start processing it for a part in today's PLFR and for another part in tomorrow's PLF, it doesn't mean much anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u509	It's sausage!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u510	You should have indicated – as I have already told you – how you intended to finance the remaining $5 billion next year. You should have specified the savings as well as the additional tax revenues, for example due to growth, that you are expecting. The same applies to the rate of interest on moratoria – whether it concerns companies or individuals. This rate is far too high today. Moratorium interests amount to 1 billion in this case, which is certainly a matter of the past, but they need to be corrected for the future. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and LC groups]] We cannot do things for half in this text and for the other half to postpone.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u511	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u512	I beg you, a little consistency! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The change in the rate of interest moratoriums is only valid for the future, so it does not change anything at all the balance of the repayment that we will have to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u513	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u514	Frankly, a little intellectual honesty! We have shown this so far in this debate, we are going astray. You've waited years before you're interested in the state's interest rate moratoriums. You may be able to wait for 15 days before making a decision that is solid. You want to deal with this issue through the little bit of the lorgnette by addressing only those aspects that relate to the €10 billion to be repaid. However, this has been said very well by Amélie de Montchalin, all the moratoria interests of the State are concerned, as are those of individuals. Do not deal in ten minutes at the end of the sitting, at 20:30, after criticising us for too long or too short a debate, the major issue of moratorium interests. I am dealing with responsible people – you have shown this throughout this debate. Responsibility, at the very moment when your proposal is being considered by the Council of State, commands not to rush to adopt a change of rate without taking into account the overallity of the problem, nor the economic aspect that Amélie de Montchalin has stressed and without showing the necessary coherence. The change in the rate has no impact on the budget regulation that we are voting on today, as you all know. Let us concentrate on the settlement of these EUR 10 billion – yes, we must go quickly, Mr President of the Committee, I confirm this to you, because otherwise it weighs on the state budget. On the issue of moratorium interests, I reiterate my commitment: I am ready to discuss this issue in the PLFR to be presented on 15 November.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u515	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u516	Minister, don't tell us that we're in a hurry and that we want to deliberate! Forgive me, but it's the sprinkler! It was not we who called Parliament in a few hours, who asked to be heard last week and to meet with the members of the committee today. Mrs de Montchalin, we have dealt with the issue of moratorium interests, because this is a problem that concerns us all. Why hand over a decision that we can make today to about 15 people? You're telling us we can wait for the next PLFR. In that case, couldn't the 10 billion settlement wait another week? Do not oppose the arguments that you yourself used to make us here at 20:30. And then the French look at us. It is still 10 billion. I think we can take half an hour to think.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u517	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u518	I support the position of the Government. The balance of the repayment to be made and the amount of the interest moratoriums are two completely different measures. The rate of interest moratoriums is a problem, but the State is not the only one involved. The measure also concerns individuals. Since this is a real subject, let's take the time to study it. I would be very pleased if we were to do so in the framework of the PLFR of 15 November. Why would you pretend you have to fix the problem tonight? This is a false debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u519	I now put to the vote identical amendments Nos 4, 36 and 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u520	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u521	What the rapporteur-general has himself called a PLFR Blitz can be summed up in trivia: it is a matter of taking in the pocket of some of the others what we will put in the pocket of others. Mrs Poletti, elected from the Ardennes, is interested in companies whose pockets will not be emptied or filled: those located in the employment areas to be revitalized, the BER, very few in our territory, and which can only be found in the Ardennes or Ariège. The aim of the amendment is to put an end to two-speed development. In the Ardennes, the BER account for 80% of the department, which means that companies in the remaining 20% suffer a loss of attractiveness and competitiveness. However, all enterprises in the territory face the same problems in terms of employment, activity and return to employment. The amendment therefore proposes, when a BER area is defined in a department, to extend it to the whole of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u522	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u523	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment aims at an external objective to that of this PLFR Blitz.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u524	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u525	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u526	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u527	The BER scheme was designed by our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann, to whom we explained the need to define homogeneous criteria, which has been done. Only two areas responded, in the Ardennes and Ariège. If we leave, we will have to obtain the agreement of the European Commission and lay down new criteria, because we cannot extend the scheme to all the Ardennes without extending it also to the whole of Ariège, which will inevitably ask for it. And many other territories are in equally difficult situations. Criteria can be defined. Otherwise, there will be a break in equality between the territories, and the European Commission will refuse this mechanism, which will have to be notified to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u528	I call Mr Charles de Courson to speak on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u529	We will not be able to vote for the article, since it is based on the idea that $5.2 billion is charged, as reimbursement expenses, to the 2017 fiscal year, and that $4.8 billion is included in revenue for 2017, which is not in line with the budgetary sincerity. I spoke about this at length during the general discussion. We cannot accept this presentation, since we are killing ourselves to repeat that the gap is 10 billion. On this occasion, Minister, it would be interesting if you could tell us a little about how you will finance the $4.4 billion you carry forward from Budget 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u530	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 53, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u531	The amendment seeks to draw the consequences on the balance of the smoothing measure which has been proposed and adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u532	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u533	The amendment has the consequences of Amendment No 47, which I have just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u534	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the 2017 amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u535	We are considering the second part of the 2017 amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u536	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 10 and 48. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u537	We propose to delete section 4, which seeks to make the community pay, through a 0.2% higher deficit, the rest of the money that would not be financed by the corporate tax that we voted for earlier. In short, when it comes to widening deficits to help capital, there is no problem, even though public expenditure for LPA or for local authorities is about to be reduced by 1.8 billion or 2.8 billion. I quote these two amounts because their addition makes it possible to reach the 4.4 billion to mobilise. Who needs this money the most? The people whose LPA, the local authorities or the companies who alone have accumulated 300 billion dividends in five years? The question, which deserves to be asked, raises another question: beyond the problems posed by the reparation of this tax considered illegal, was the measure good or bad on the merits? We believe that it was good and that there was indeed a need to tax the capital income that thrives from year to year. For us, it is out of the question that the community is paying $4.4 billion, and that is why we are proposing to delete the article. In order to bring the sum together, we will defend, in Article 5, an amendment to suspend the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax. This would bring together the same equivalent amount while avoiding the payment of it by us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u538	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u539	We could only table an amendment to delete the article, since we must open a line not of 4.398 billion, but of 9.398 billion, to cover all the 10 billion. I will return to this issue by defending another amendment earlier. In the meantime, I would like to point out that, under the Organic Law on Finance Laws, repayments and rebates are valuation credits. To the limit, it was therefore possible for you not to earmark these appropriations. It was enough for you to justify them in the Rules of Procedure or before the Finance Committee, which is not a tragedy. In any event, I repeat, the sum of 4.4 billion is not enough. It is necessary to provide for 9.4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u540	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u541	Unfavorable opinion. If the amendment were to be voted on, the necessary appropriations would not be made available for the implementation of the Constitutional Council's decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u542	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u543	I had the opportunity to speak on the subject during the general discussion. Even though the rapporteur-general probably thinks that the measure does not relate to the text, I propose to move EUR 50000 towards the budget of the National Assembly, so that we can request external expertise, in particular from tax lawyers working at the European Court of Justice. We could thus benefit from a different opinion than that of the Ministry of Finance, in order to shed light on these provisions. The expenditure would be wasted, in order to maintain the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u544	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u545	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u546	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u547	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u548	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u549	I would point out to Mrs Rabault, who has been rapporteur-general for the budget, that there is no need to vote on her amendment. The budget of the National Assembly already provides for appropriations to this effect, even if we do not use them. [[Laughs]] And then, claim 50,000 euros from the budget of the National Assembly... "Don't you have a hundred bullets? ", would say the other. The Finance Committee had already foreseen this possibility, which we used very long ago. We do not need any additional appropriations. Finally, I do not know whether it would be an excellent idea to draw them from the budget of the Court of Justice of the Republic as long as it exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u550	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u551	The article aims to ratify the advance decree of 20 July 2017, which provided for a charge of 300 million euros on the investment credits of municipalities and communities of communes, led to the decrease of 5 euros per month of the APL for 6.5 million French, of which 60 % live below the poverty line, and reduced the appropriations of the mission "Work and employment", preventing the creation of assisted jobs. All these reasons prompt us to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u552	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u553	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u554	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u555	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u556	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u557	I confess my astonishment. The amendment simply seeks to remove the pre-decree of more than 4 billion people who had to vote this summer in order to remain in the grips and to maintain a public deficit of less than 3 % of our GDP. Can we sit down on this measure, when we have set ourselves the goal of finally getting out of the excessive deficit procedure? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Of course, it would have been easier for everyone, and first and foremost for us, not to have to make these decisions in an emergency. You remember, at the first hearing held by the Finance Committee, Minister Michel Sapin and his Secretary of State for the budget Christian Eckert explained to us that this situation was normal, that every summer we were looking for 8 or 10 billion. As we did not agree, we took the necessary decisions to restore the sincerity of the budget and to be able to get out of the excessive deficit procedure as quickly as possible. It is good to fulfil this commitment that we are looking at this PLFR. It is therefore not possible to vote for such an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u558	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u559	Of course, I want to support Valérie Rabault's amendment. Contrary to what Mrs de Montchalin has said, we do not blame you, by taking this decree in advance, for wanting to put France back on the nails, but we criticise the fact that you are canceling 300 million euros of appropriations intended to support the investment of local authorities or measures enshrined in the city's policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u560	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u561	I am also thinking of APLs and assisted jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u562	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u563	Using this PLFR to ratify an advance order is a skilful method, but we must remember the content of this decree. Mr rapporteur-general, I am astonished at this process, when you have told us, in the course of amendments and explanations, that you would not accept any amendment which would have a different object than that of the PLFR Blitz...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u564	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u565	... in so far as this bill is related to the handling of a dispute which gave rise to the decision of the Constitutional Council. I find it inappropriate to use an exceptional PLFR to ratify an advance order, which is a common procedure, because the purpose of this order is foreign to that of litigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u566	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u567	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 5. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u568	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u569	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u570	Mr rapporteur-general, we will again talk about the employment pool to be reinvigorated, the ERB. Perhaps you will tell me that it is inappropriate to mention this subject on the occasion of this PLFR Blitz, but it nevertheless seems important to me to discuss it. You may be drawn between urgency and measurement, but it is a subject that needs to be dealt with quickly, since the device will cease at the end of 2017. This amendment, tabled by our colleague Pierre Cordier, Member of Parliament for the Ardennes, aims to extend the scheme for five years, under the same conditions. In fact, these measures have been useful to many firms in difficult areas, with an exceptionally high unemployment rate – for example, in some areas of the Ardennes. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Ardennes identified 8200 companies, including 1160 new ones – registered in 2015 – that needed to be accompanied in order to sustain the jobs created. I appeal to your common sense. Show us that you do not forget the territories, that you are not only a majority of the metropolises, think of these rural territories, vital for our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u571	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u572	The opinion will be unfavourable since, in any event, this amendment, which was tabled on the second part of the PLF – it bears the number CF 372 – will be discussed on Thursday. You will then have every opportunity to develop these arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u573	With the support of the rapporteur-general!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u574	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u575	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u576	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u577	It is a pity, Minister, that you do not tell us what the position of the Government will be in the debate on this amendment. I am not concerned but, given the situation of the Ardennes and Ariège, it would be desirable for you to be open. However, this decision is subject to the agreement of the Commission, since I believe that the extension of the arrangements requires a Community agreement. Can we find out where you're going with your thoughts?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u578	[[Smile]] You'll know on Thursday!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u579	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u580	I will simply reply by reminding you that I am an elected member of a rural area and that I have been Minister of Agriculture for three years. I know rural life, I love it and I defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u581	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u582	That the minister does not misunderstand me, I obviously did not mean it personally. I was just echoing some of the points. However, I agree with our colleague from Courson that this does not prevent you from indicating your position on this important subject, even though there will be a discussion on Thursday.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u583	On the whole of the 2017 amending finance bill, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 8 and 17. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u584	I understand that this amendment will not pass, that you will vote the PLFR as planned, requiring the community to contribute, to the tune of almost 5 billion, to repay this 3% tax to shareholders. However, the solution that was proposed to you by this amendment was to suspend by one year – we would prefer to cancel them, but we take into account your logic – the allocation of gifts that you are about to make, in part, to the same shareholders, through the single lump sum levy – which has a cost of 1.5 billion – and the abolition of the ISF on movable property – which amounts to 3.5 billion. That would have been a double advantage. Minister, you mentioned an investigation by the General Inspectorate of Finance; I'm pretty sure that, within a while, the IGF will be conducting an investigation into the flat tax. In fact, you did not respond substantively to the economists' arguments, which explain to you that, because of a boon effect, there will be a transfer of income from the wages or fees of those subject to the flat tax to dividends, since they will be taxed less. Gabriel Zucman talks about 10 billion. There is much to bet that we will not be left with the $1.5 billion planned. So your budget may seem insinuating. By voting on this amendment, you would have avoided this problem. Moreover, contrary to what Mr Giraud said – that is why this amendment was declared admissible – it is quite possible to correct a finance bill. If this amendment is voted on, the state will have to move forward for 2017, these 5 billion, and repay in 2018 on the advantage provided by the removal of the ISF on movable property and the introduction of the flat tax. That would be reasonable, but I am not sure, alas, that you are convinced of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u585	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u586	Mr Minister, this amendment is intended to ensure that the French do not have to bear 5 of the 10 billion that we are going to repay to large companies. You have not answered the question that has been asked several times: how are you going to put the $4.4 billion that will not be repaid this year in the 2018 budget, or in the years that will follow? Is that the extra deficit? How will this be reflected in the nation's accounts? On the other hand, you did not want to perpetuate the increase in corporate tax on the largest financial groups: you intend to make this tax an exceptional tax, while we have proposed that you make it a solidarity tax that comes in time. We also propose that you establish a moratorium on the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth and on the introduction of the single flat-rate levy. This would save us, for 2019, the €5 billion you propose to make our citizens pay. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It's kind of a catch-up amendment, so that the French don't have to put their hands in the pocket to repay the EUR 5 billion we owe to the biggest multinationals. But, amazingly, you told us that sixteen multinationals, among those with the highest turnover – more than 13.9 billion euros – will earn an average of 166 million euros. It's huge, and that's why no Frenchman should have to put his hand in the pocket.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u587	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u588	[[Exclaims]] Ladies and gentlemen, this final amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u589	It's the final bouquet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u590	...is an amendment of reflection. In essence, we are in the process of passing an act of amending finance which is not one. In fact, we did not adjust the revenues according to the situation known at the time of the deposit, and we did not adjust the expenses at all, except for one: the increase in refunds and allowances. But you are all familiar with article 10 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, according to which repayments and rebates "are of an evaluation nature". There was therefore no need for this increase. You can make an adjustment of $5 billion, minister; It doesn't matter. The organic law simply asks you to report to the Finance Committee. You could have filed a very simple text, with various provisions to "remedie partially the financial implications of the Constitutional Council's decision". You would have spared yourself all the problems you will encounter on the procedure and on the substance. What do you think, Minister? It is indeed a false law of amending finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u591	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u592	[[Smile]] Disfavorable, Monsieur de Courson, especially since your amendment has a French fault: we do not palliate "the" impacts, but "the" impacts. I'm surprised at you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u593	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u594	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u595	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u596	[[Smile]] I take this last amendment for the final intervention, the final struggle!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u597	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u598	Minister, I ask you the question that you still haven't answered: in what way are you going to register the 5 billion that the French will have to settle? Will you include them in the 2018 budget, will you spread them between 2018 and 2021, is that the additional deficit or public expenditure less?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u599	We have completed the discussion of the sections of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u600	I would be remiss if I did not give the final answer to Mr Roussel's question. I repeat what I have already said in the Finance Committee: we will incorporate into the 2018 public deficit forecast the additional burden, deducted from the EUR 200 million we have provided. The deficit for 2018 will no longer be 2.6% of GDP as expected, but 2.8%, allowing us to maintain our European commitments, while integrating this additional expenditure. That is the answer that I made in the Committee on Finance and which I would like to repeat to you, with all my thanks for the quality and serenity of the debate we have had today on this thorny subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u601	I put to the vote the whole of the 2017 amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-06-O1041.u602	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Election of two Vice-Presidents; Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018 with the review of the appropriations of the mission "External action of the State". The meeting is adjourned.
