ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, following the initiation of the accelerated procedure, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol annexed to the general convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on social security of 1 October 1980 relating to the programmed health care provided in France to Algerian nationals insured social and deprived non-insured social residents residing in Algeria (No. 13, 414).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u3	Mr President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the subject we are addressing this evening can be considered sensitive, but I believe that it is mainly the subject of a number of fantasies – as the rapporteur has written very clearly in his report. These fantasies feed a certain populism that can find an electoral echo. We can only regret that those who criticized this agreement are not present tonight – I wanted to point out. This protocol was necessary. The old accord dating back to the eighties – at that time, I was twenty, says the song; To be precise, I had nineteen – didn't work. A patient residing in Algeria could receive medical care in France through three channels. The first, which followed an agreement between the primary health insurance fund and the National Social Insurance Fund of Algerian employees – CNAS – was not working – is understandable because a state-to-state agreement cannot work. The second, favoured by Algerians for years, took the form of direct contractual relations with French hospitals. Nor was this route effective in that each hospital was obliged to claim, legitimately, its dues. However, it is unclear, if not impossible, for the accountant of a hospital to be alone in front of the CNAS. Finally, the last possibility was that we could be treated individually, through the emergencies – as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur – which raised obvious problems of recovery. But this third possibility honors France. At the meeting of the committee, I recalled the words of President Sarkozy who, on a trip to the United States, in the midst of a discussion on Obamacare, had said to the students of a university in New York that the difference between France and other countries was that our country could welcome a sick person and treat him immediately. France is honored not to ask for the papers – you have spoken of checkbook, rapporteur – of a sick person to treat him. "Give us your papers, we'll treat you": things don't work that way and it's all to our credit. This text allows me to make a digression on state medical aid. Fantasies, let's talk about it. In this House, we have spoken for years of Algerian debt. As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, the French hospital system delivers 90 billion euros of care each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u4	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u5	In this regard, I would like to say that your report is full of lucidity and republican reason, Mr Fanget. The debt related to the reception of foreign patients amounts to almost 119 million euros, of which 31 million for Algeria. What are we talking about? These sums are really small.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u7	That's the reality. The rapporteur has made it very clear that out of the €90 billion in care provision, the debts of foreigners amount to 119 million, those of patients from Algeria to 31 million. I would add that if, in 2012, CNAS's debt was directed towards the AP-HP – Public Assistance – Hospitals of Paris – totalled 16 million, in 2017, it was 4 million euros, a suspicion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u8	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u9	We have to end this populist fantasy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u10	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u11	My dear colleague, this agreement is a good agreement because it is the only bilateral agreement...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u12	Don't insult me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u13	Only the speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u14	I do not insult you, I say "my dear colleague".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u15	"Populist fantasy," is it friendly, perhaps?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u16	This is not just for you, but the others are not present!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u17	It's not completely false either. This is the only bilateral agreement of this nature, for historical and almost family reasons. Why don't we go any further, Mr. Secretary of State? Why could this agreement – I will not say perfect but school – not be transposed with other countries, including the United States, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Spain? That would be quite logical and healthy. Another very healthy point is the pre-arrangement arrangement, as used in medicine and referred to in the agreement as "prior approval". It is an excellent thing to agree upstream. In addition, the agreement guarantees the possibility of care for the poorest and the most affluent. Secondly, it provides for a mutual guarantee since the care is programmed. Another important element is that the patient correspondent will now be the primary health insurance fund, instead of the hospital accountant who has something else to do. Finally, the CNAS will have to repay the costs within three months and make advances corresponding to 35% of the outstanding claims for the previous year – that's not nothing! This agreement respects the Republic, the medical ethics, and the universalism that the French Republic must defend; He respects men. In conclusion, to be in the mood, in line with the new world, this agreement is not open bar but there will be no testing for treatment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u18	Speak French, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u19	Let us try, ladies and gentlemen, to use the French language, which is rich enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u20	I'm just adopting Macronie's practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u21	No, Macronie rhymes with francophonie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u22	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u23	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said about this important bill, this protocol annexed to the general convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Algerian Republic on scheduled health care provided in France to Algerian nationals. I should like to congratulate myself, perhaps astonished, on the convergence of views with previous speakers in this rostrum. The La France insoumise group will vote in favour of this bill because it certainly seems to us to be creating small difficulties and going in the right direction; it is reasonable and does what needs to be done; In our view, it is part of the refutation of arguments which have been put forward here and which are part of a fantasy reality. The supporters of this vision would like to make us believe that Algerian patients would arrive, with a dangerous ease, in our hospitals to obtain treatment at the expense of the French taxpayer. Today we know the sites which relay these arguments, repeat them tirelessly and which sometimes find the ears of some of our fellow citizens. No, it is wrong to say that Algerian patients come at the expense of the French taxpayer for treatment in France. However, it is true that the miscalibration of the previous convention and the agreements reached directly by CNAS with public institutions resulted in a negative balance. It is good that previous speakers have recalled that this balance must be linked to the total expenditure owed by other countries – out of the 118 million euros of foreign patients' debt, Algerians account for 30 million euros. These amounts must also be correlated with the total expenditure on care, which makes them relativized. This so-called debt does not call into question our health care system. Others have said in this forum, if our system of care is perfectable, it is deceitful and politically formidable to make it appear that our public health institutions would be put at risk by caring for foreign nationals, particularly Algerians. We welcome the fact that a method – we will see if, in practice, it gives satisfaction – solves problems and makes it possible to clean up the situation. I want to stress one point – the relations between France and Algeria – perhaps because this forum allows, despite the late hour, to be heard by our fellow citizens. Algeria is not any country with which we have bilateral relations, of course. We are all universalists, committed to establishing relations with all the countries of the world, but we are still talking about a country with which we have had very special relations for a hundred and thirty years – which led some to say in this rostrum: "Algeria is France"; With hindsight, we can judge the unfortunate word, but at that time this sentence resonated in the conscience of many of our fellow citizens. I would like to recall that 2.5 million French were born in Algeria or have a parent or grandparent born in Algeria. This means in concrete terms that French people, when their mother or grandmother living in Algeria is ill, find it logical to make her benefit from the quality of the care of our institutions. There's something normal about that. Our relations oblige us to take a special look at this subject. No less than 740,000 people living in France were born in Algeria. We therefore have a very strong link, particularly, which must be stressed and maintained. The recognition of the quality of our care system, as evidenced by the number of foreign patients who want to access it, must flatter the pride of our fellow citizens, but here we are talking about patients from a particular country. I will not make the list, given the late hour, but how many intellectuals, athletes, great writers were born in Algeria? We insist on this, because this reality justifies us taking a particular, sensitive, human approach, because we are aware of our history. Moreover, it is not just a question of ending the past, because we are talking about a living reality. If many of us have ancestors buried in Algeria, how many have a living connection to this country? All these reasons justifying that, in this case, we should not allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by accounting reasons, even if, in this respect, we do not lack arguments, which I think there is no point in repeating. In fact, this aspect of the file was not so dangerous that it could have put our health care system in trouble. On the contrary, a protocol must be laid down which will help to stabilize relations with the government and the citizens, in order to restore flesh to the painful but intimate bond that unites us with Algeria, this brother country. One of our colleagues suggested that the adoption of this Memorandum of Understanding could be used to extend the provisions contained therein to other States. Why not? The so strong memory that unites us with Algeria also binds us to other countries, particularly the Maghreb. In any event, I repeat: despite many points that could be improved, the solution before us seems reasonable. It must be voted on. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the discussion to say how the French bashing, to which we so often give up, in particular to take part our public service and our health system, is of little relevance. The results of our system of care, ranked first in 2000 by the World Health Organization, which we must be proud of, are such that some citizens of the world, suffering from particular diseases, less well treated in their country than in France, come to our hospitals to receive care. This is human and carries high the universalist dimension of France. We can be proud to be French when we implement this type of protocol. It is a way of saying to all the peoples of the world: we are fraternal peoples and the Republic, open, universal, looks after all human beings, even if they do not have French nationality. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u24	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u26	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have a privileged relationship with our Algerian counterparts, which has resulted in the implementation of many bilateral agreements on a broad spectrum of topics. Because the health of citizens lies at the heart of the concerns of a State and because a large number of Algerian nationals seek to benefit from the quality of care provided by our hospitals, cooperation in this matter between our two countries must be given our full attention. In the past, mechanisms had already been put in place under the 1980 Convention, which affirmed the principle of equal treatment of nationals of both States under the social security legislation of each State. Encouraged in its establishment by relatively symmetrical health systems, this system is the first of its kind to establish itself with a third country of the European Union and bears witness, in fact, to the special relationship between France and Algeria. Today, the arrangements introduced by the 1980 Convention are not sufficiently efficient. To remedy these shortcomings, the conventions drawn up directly between the Algerian National Security Fund and hospitals have replaced the bilateral instrument originally envisaged. Again, this system is far from satisfying both sides. The French hospitals, already suffering from a large public deficit, observe a regular delay in payments paid by Algerian nationals and their social fund. The example of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, which alone crystallizes most of the outstanding problems in France, is particularly ubiquitous. The pre-study report on this bill indicates that the amount of debt to be recovered from foreign patients was EUR 118.6 million in 2014. Of these, Algerians alone had a debt of EUR 31 million. This situation forced the Paris Public Hospital Assistance to take measures to avoid a multiplication of financial disputes, asking Algerian patients for a systematic payment of an advance on quotation. Even though several payments from the Algerian side have made it possible to recover a large part of the debts, the need for a renovation of the existing mechanisms seems obvious. We also need to introduce new arrangements to allow for the introduction of appropriate admission procedures, within a clarified legislative framework, guaranteeing a financial balance for French establishments. The UDI, Agir and Independent Group is therefore in favour of the ratification of this Protocol, which aims to establish the unified administrative framework for exiting contractual relations between the French establishments and the Algerian social fund, and at the same time to render obsolete the certificates of accommodation which so far enabled Algerian nationals to benefit from French services. The Protocol also provides for a salutary extension of its scope by including both social insurance and the uninsured. The quasi-universal vocation of this protocol will therefore help to resolve unforeseen, or so-called "unannounced", cases in which medical ethics invited French doctors to treat patients even though the cost recovery would prove difficult. Algeria, for its part, has developed budgetary mechanisms for its poor, in order to provide a response to these particular cases. The Annex to the Convention provides for the renewal of the partnership by introducing a rigorous system of prior authorisation of the planned care provided for Algerian patients, together with a clarification of the means of payment by Algerian social security. The protocol aims to ensure better organization of the processing of invoicing and a reduction in associated financial disputes. Moreover, the Protocol is accompanied by relevant institutional provisions such as the strengthening of the Joint Committee, which, already provided for in the 1980 Convention, will ensure the cohesion of the system by having a right of control over the annual advances paid by the Algerian side and will make it possible to settle disputes which could sustain. Furthermore, it should be noted that the implementation of this text has been conditioned by the recovery of past debts, which demonstrates the willingness of our Algerian partner to strengthen existing arrangements and build a balanced and lasting partnership. Nevertheless, we believe that there are still many areas of shadow in this Treaty. In truth, its philosophy is part of the new and growing phenomenon of medical tourism. This phenomenon can be read as the direct consequence of a globalized world and the fact that a middle class from emerging countries is increasingly important and eager to access the best possible care. The Algerian case is far from isolated, with Moroccans and Americans also contracting large debts to our hospitals. France, with a recognized medical system, is indeed a destination of choice for many foreigners who wish to benefit, at relatively competitive rates, from the quality of the care we provide. The question is therefore: should this system be generalised beyond the Algerian case alone? We will not open this debate today, even though it seems at first glance difficult to find a comprehensive solution adapted to recoveries, most of which are from private insurance. However, if this use is to become more widespread, every effort must be made to avoid the advent of a two-speed medical system, which can penalise our fellow citizens against foreigners who are more or less wealthy. Moreover, the ratification of this Treaty, if it allows many Algerian nationals to benefit from the quality of the treatments provided by our hospitals, must not be at the expense of the Algerian Government's interest in improving its own national medical structures, which are ultimately intended to meet the needs of Algerian patients. On a completely different subject, in view of the economic and economic difficulties currently facing Algeria, particularly in view of the fall in oil prices and the size of its public deficit, control mechanisms must be provided to ensure that our partner complies with its commitments in the long term. The High-level Intergovernmental Committee, established in 2012, can be the preferred forum for further discussion on the subject. The measures provided for in this Treaty also deserve to be accompanied in their implementation by an important information work aimed at the Algerian population who may benefit from this scheme. On the other side of the Mediterranean, details should be given on the impact of this protocol on the social security budget and on the functioning of our French institutions. Therefore, while the protocol annexed to the 1980 Convention seems incomplete to us and calls for a more in-depth debate on many subjects, the UDI Group, Agir et indépendants, calls for the ratification of this Treaty, which, if it does not regulate everything, contributes to the necessary corrective mechanisms which will allow Algerian patients to be received and treated under the best possible conditions, while guaranteeing French hospitals a simplified and more rigorous financial and administrative management.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u28	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we might think that everything has been said about this Treaty, as well as about relations between Algerian patients and French hospitals. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, in particular, its rapporteur, who, in the middle of July, adopted the idea of a more calm reading of this agreement after initial discussions that started in all directions – which allowed for a thorough report to be drawn up and for the relevant hearings to be conducted. Mr rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my full support for your request to propose to the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs that a thorough study be carried out on this phenomenon of medical tourism and the settlement of care through bilateral agreements. Let's remember: 16 countries, including Algeria, the United States and Spain, are now affected by PA-HP debts related to non-resident foreigners. I hope that your report will be timely and allow us to reflect on this matter. At a time when the hospital is reduced to making drawer bottoms, it may be interesting to work on that side. It may be a few nursing or nursing aide positions that will be maintained. I also support the proposal to forward this report to the department, so that this issue can be addressed at the highest level. This new report, supplemented by new hearings, is complete. It provides a good understanding of the situation. Linked since 1980 by an agreement having created numerous payment disputes between them and having become unsuitable for Algerian patients, France and Algeria have decided that it is necessary to start again on a good basis. Negotiated since 2009, this seventeen-article protocol was signed in Algiers in 2016. Its aim is to clarify the care provided by Algerian social security for Algerian patients in French hospitals. This agreement concerns as many Algerian citizens as possible, in order to make this path of care the simplest and best marked, and thus to limit the number of Algerians who would come to be treated outside this framework and would therefore be more expensive for French hospitals. Within this path, everything will be financially clear between the two States, which is a step forward from the previous agreement. This text is the most beautiful contradiction to those who fantasize about the invasion of Algerian nationals who would come, at the expense of the French taxpayer, to be treated in our hospitals. It gathers consensus among parliamentarians, to the exclusion of the extreme right, both on its objective and on how the committee has reworked the subject. I could stick to the analysis of the text, but speaking of health, social security, Algeria and Algiers, it immediately comes to my mind that it was when one of our colleagues, Ambrose Croizat, from 1936 to 1940, came out of Algiers that was the man who worked to create social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u31	Without its action, we would not be here to talk about the convention between France and Algeria. Ambrose Croizat worked hard to create social security. You can't blame a communist for mentioning this illustrious character!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u32	A minister of General de Gaulle!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u33	Absolutely! It is always good to make a little history in this House. It must therefore be remembered that Ambrosie Croizat's plan was expressed in the programme of the National Council of Resistance in 1944: "We, the fighters of the shadows, demand the establishment of a comprehensive social security plan aimed at ensuring the livelihood of all citizens in all cases where they are unable to obtain it through work, with management by the concerned and the State. In the position of Minister of Labour, in just two years, he has restored trade union freedoms and introduced the generalization of pensions, a system of family benefits unique in the world, works councils, the status of staff delegate, occupational medicine and the increase of overtime, to stick only to these measures. It is to him that we owe this humanism, in whose name anyone can be treated today without worrying about who will pay and when the payment will be effective. Let's not forget that in other countries, you have to give your credit card before you even get accepted to hospital emergencies. Our care system is based on the values of sharing brought about by this activist of the General Confederation of Labour, who said: "We will never tolerate the narrowing of one of the benefits of social security. We will defend to die from it and with the latest energy this human law and progress. The CGT was, moreover, the driving force behind the concrete implementation of the "Secure" throughout the national territory. The work was complex and difficult, but the result has been fruitful for seventy years. An artist of the most respectable of politics, Ambrose Croizat put all his art at the service of the interests of the people, and was recognized as such by the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u35	Nearly a million people accompanied his remains in 1950 from the House of Trade Unions to the Cemetery of Père-Lachaise. So yes, it is also a little thanks to Ambrose Croizat that this convention exists. His humanism allows everyone to come to France to be treated. Many citizens from Europe and elsewhere cross our borders to be taken care of by our healthcare teams, which are recognised for their very high quality. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] We are therefore far from the abject speeches that I was able to read, according to which this protocol will allow Algerians to come to France for treatment. That's not true, and, I wanted to say here, only the most wretched of ideologies is capable of so many lies. The GDR Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u37	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just heard, the Committee on Bilateral Social Security between Algeria and France, dating from 1980, has become largely inoperative because of the limited number of potential beneficiaries. The Algerian Social Security, the CNAS, has gradually developed direct contractual relations with French hospitals, effectively replacing the conventional system in place. However, the current situation is unsatisfactory, as has been said throughout the general discussion, because the recovery of the debts corresponding to the care provided is not only long but not always successful. The result is a fairly substantial accumulation of administrative and financial difficulties in terms of collection and disputes over the amount of invoices. The protocol annexed to the Convention on Social Security, which is proposed today to the National Assembly, is therefore intended to establish a unified and reliable administrative framework for the organization and care of care provided in France to Algerian nationals residing in Algeria. It also aims to secure the invoicing and recovery of medical costs in order to limit Algerian claims, as has been said. The corrective measures contained in the agreement focus on four main areas. The first concerns the scope of the text. This Protocol provides for a wider scope of potential beneficiaries than that of the 1980 Convention and, as the Secretary of State and the rapporteur have stated, it covers, within the Algerian population, social insured persons, their beneficiaries, but also so-called "deprived", uninsured persons. This new definition is therefore likely to make the protocol available to almost all Algerian nationals, since the care provided cannot be provided in Algeria. The second principle that I would like to stress here concerns the right of patients. The text guarantees Algerian patients the possibility of being subject to French regulations on public health and patients' rights. These rights include the right to complete information on treatment, access to medical records and the obligation to collect informed consent. Some of these provisions have already been translated into practice. Thus, in 2017, the Algerian Social Security set up a secure server allowing the exchange of medical reports in accordance with medical confidentiality. The third principle is that the protocol sets up a system of estimates and prior authorisation of scheduled care. This involves the establishment, prior to the departure of the patient, of an estimate on the basis of a flat daily rate, as well as the obligation imposed on the patient to have obtained from the Algerian Social Security a certificate of entitlement to scheduled care. Fourth principle: the establishment of a centralized system for the liquidation and recovery of costs. In order to secure the invoicing and recovery of medical expenses, the text provides for the establishment of a centralized financing system for the services provided. It is the French primary health insurance funds that will now be the financial correspondent of hospitals for patients, but also for local Algerian social security. In order to avoid, or at least to limit, the cash gap, the Algerian Social Security will also have to pay to the National Centre for Care Abroad, for each financial year, advances equal to 35 per cent of the amount of the debts paid in respect of the previous financial year. Finally, repayments by the Algerian Social Security will be regulated temporally: they will have to be made within three months, on the basis of total half-yearly accounts. These four axes form a unique device. Apart from the European Coordination of Social Security, France has not signed any other bilateral agreement with a third State providing for the possibility of scheduled care. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The La République en marche group will vote in favour of the ratification of this protocol, which will allow Algerian citizens to benefit from scheduled care in France, while avoiding the litigation and unpaid of the past. In this sense, in the spirit of the French public hospital service, it is the expression of a proactive policy of openness to foreign patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u39	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the statements made by Isabelle Rauch and Liliana Tanguy showed how important it was, from both a financial and a diplomatic point of view, to settle as soon as possible the dispute arising from the application of the 1980 Protocol and to put our relations in order. The agreements between the Caisse nationale des assurances sociales des travailleurs salariés d'Algeria and the French hospital establishments were laudable in many respects; They responded, in particular, to a logic of efficiency. But a poorly framed application is invariably causing difficulties in the medium or long term. We often criticise, sometimes rightly, the "over-administered", but we also see, as today, that the absence of a legal framework, especially in international relations, is a source of complications, then conflicts, and finally situations of blockage. In this context, even if this Protocol does not regulate all the blockages, it makes it possible to approach the future calmly. The purpose of this protocol, whose approval is submitted to the National Assembly, is precisely to regulate legally, from a long-term perspective, the administrative and financial conditions for the scheduled reception of Algerian patients in French hospitals. The French social model is sometimes considered too "assistant" and considered financially very burdensome for the community. Yet, it has enabled us to develop one of the best care systems in the world;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u41	Exactly! And thanks to who?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u42	... in fact, the excellence of the medical offer in France is internationally recognized. In this respect, the Franco-Algérien agreement offers prospects for our relations with other non-European partner countries. Indeed, this Convention constitutes a framework which may be declined in the future and give rise to agreements with other third countries, in so far as the existence of unpaid payments exceeds the Algerian case alone. According to PA-HP statistics, as at 31 August 2017, the debts of Moroccan individuals and organizations amounted to more than 11 million euros, while those of the United States amounted to almost 6 million euros. The countries of the Middle East are also concerned: there are 1.7 million euros in debts for Saudi Arabia, 3.8 million for Kuwait and 1.9 million for Libya. We cannot therefore ignore the economic impact of these situations, which are linked, in particular, to the development of what is now called "medical tourism" and which, if we are not to stop at the tourist aspect, must be taken into account. Indeed, international patient mobility has continued to grow in recent years. The reception of foreign patients by the most attractive healthcare systems already represented a global market of around 60 billion euros worldwide in 2015. Many countries have chosen to invest in this type of tourism, like Germany, which is now the country with the largest number of foreign patients in Europe. France, for the moment, struggles to position itself on this niche. The reception of foreign patients has significant benefits for our economy. In 2014, a report produced at the request of the Government by Jean de Kervasdoué, a health economist and former director of hospitals, showed that a proactive policy of France in the field of medical tourism could give hope for an additional annual turnover of around 2 billion euros thanks, among other things, to the reception of foreign patients for scheduled care. However, the reception of these patients presents some financial risk to our hospitals. As our colleagues have pointed out, the unpaid payments left by the Algerian social regime have far-reaching consequences for the AP-HP, and that is what has led us today to look at this bill. It is essential to create an environment conducive to the homogenisation and security of the financial management of foreign patients. The adoption of the draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol annexed to the general convention between France and Algeria is fully in line with this perspective. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Following the memorandum of understanding concluded thirty-seven years ago between France and a partner with whom it has always wished to maintain friendly and even fraternal relations, the efforts of the social and diplomatic services of our two countries have led to this bill which is before us for ratification. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, for the various reasons set out, that it will be the subject of a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u43	On the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr Corbière: a very important link, of an affective nature, unites us with Algeria. As a result, any agreement – as technical as it may be – with this great friend country, this partner country, takes on a political, symbolic dimension. Be sure that any public statements here on our benches are received in Algiers, Oran, Annaba and elsewhere. The decisive importance of this partner is not only linked to history. The flows of human exchanges between our two countries are without comparison: 600,000 Algerians hold a residence permit in France, 50,000 of our compatriots reside in Algeria and 400,000 visas for France are granted each year to Algerians. If this seems important to you, it is little compared to the time when I was a political adviser at the French Embassy in Algiers; The figures were then twice as high. This link must not only maintain and develop it, but also manage it, because it engages us for the medium, the long and the very long term. Important cultural, human and social issues arise. They all require organizational work; We're doing it. For those colleagues who do not have the chance to sit on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would remind you that last summer we ratified two conventions with Algeria, on vocational training and on cooperation in criminal matters. The protocol we are examining today, on which I had the pleasure of working with our rapporteur during the various hearings conducted, offers a new illustration of this work. The text provides for an ab initio agreement for each patient sent to France with an authorisation from the French hospital and social security authorities, the establishment of a pre-financing and a final reimbursement. If the patients concerned are not very numerous, the pathologies are heavy and extremely costly. These are cancers, haematological or neurological disorders. It is therefore very important to secure this flow, which has so far led to delays and difficulties. As our rapporteur has said, this agreement provides a more controlled and financially secure administrative framework. The provisions of the Protocol are therefore indisputable. I will not talk about state medical aid, other speakers have done so. This protocol does not apply to the AME, or even to people who are directed to emergencies. I confirm that it is neither intended to increase the number of Algerians coming to France for treatment, nor to treat them at the expense of the French taxpayer. On the contrary, it is a question of encouraging the establishment of an effective international care chain to treat specific diseases that cannot be treated in Algerian hospitals. In this regard, I regret the absence of a financial tool for French intervention to upgrade Algerian hospitals for certain diseases. You may know this: because Algeria does not want to get into debt, which is a good, it refuses the intervention of the Agence française de développement since 2004; We are therefore "without arms" on these issues of equipment. Before concluding, I would like to raise the issue of the international care market. According to a note from France Strategy, the number of solvent patients travelling abroad to receive care increased from 7.5 million in 2007 to 16 million in 2012; Meanwhile, we watched the trains pass. These patients do not pose a problem with the payment of fees. We had the opportunity to say that France enjoyed an excellent reputation; It was ranked number one by the World Health Organization – the WHO – a few years ago. Under the previous government, Mr de Kervasdoué had issued a report to propel a real long-term dynamic in the export of services. In this regard, I would like to express my satisfaction and regret. The satisfaction is that when we organize ourselves, we achieve results: the commercial subsidiary of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, AP-HP International, for example, has managed to take off in a few semesters; It is now performing well in this market. Regrettably, we have hardly made any progress in terms of reception. It's probably related to some conservatism. This development is considered with great caution and even fear by the Director General of AP-HP. If the agreement that we will probably ratify in a few moments was extended to other countries, it would allow us to develop this economic strategy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, the agreement before you sets a clear framework, responds to a demand and, above all, offers guarantees to avoid future drifts. It is for this set of reasons that the La République group on the move will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u45	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u46	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u47	We shall proceed directly to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Laurent Furst, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u48	First of all, the Republican Group will vote for this text, because it helps to solve certain problems by codifying the future. However, this evening we have a feeling of ill-being. I would remind you of the purpose of the protocol, because we have not been clear: it is a matter of care not provided in Algeria which is the subject of prior agreement. This programmed activity covers 600 to 700 people per year. We therefore have no problem with voting on this text, and we agree that the principle should be extended to other countries. However, if there is demagogy on the one hand on the part of those who are trying to stir up hatred, there is a lack of clarity on the other. What is embarrassing is that we have dealt with only 2% of the problems relating to hospital activity and the link between our two countries. Of course, the activity programmed for this type of care concerns people who must be treated under excellent conditions, but moreover tens of thousands of acts are delivered unscheduledly to people who come to our hospitals. And, as you know, because this information is current, our hospitals have more than EUR 30 billion in debt and EUR 1.5 billion in deficit; It's a dramatic situation. In particular, we spend more than EUR 1 billion on AME in France today; No one said anything about it. The country owes itself to provide free care to foreigners; That is the reality. We have therefore not addressed other issues, such as those of hospitals or pensions, for example. That's unfortunate. The text is excellent, but it only solves a tiny part of the financial difficulties that our relationship with Algeria poses with regard to the situation of its nationals, which we are encountering with a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u49	Mr Christian Hutin, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u50	The New Left Group will of course vote with both hands for this remarkable text, together with a report which is no less so. I would like to return to medical tourism, a subject which Mr Kokouendo has raised very well and which we have also raised in the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the rapporteur. If I, for my part, had been shocked by certain aspects of the marketing of hospital care, it must be recognized that this activity can bring us money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u51	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u52	We can expect an additional annual turnover of 2 billion euros, you say, but these 2 billion, they're already here! Laurent Fabius and Marisol Touraine had put forward a number of avenues to improve these results. In any case, this activity will never have to compete with the care provided to our fellow citizens. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I had also been embarrassed, and Mr Fanget shares my feeling, by voting under the previous legislature of an amendment allowing a number of VIP families – please excuse me, Mr President, for this new anglicism, but I am beginning to engage in macroism... I say it with sympathy, ladies and gentlemen; You probably didn't hear what I said earlier. These VIPs, I said, can get special reception conditions – for example, the benefit of a adjoining room for their wife. It seems to me that there is, in this area, a limit not to be exceeded in relation to the efforts made towards the French. As for the AME, forgive me, dear colleague, but what you say is terrible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u53	That's not what owed France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u54	This is still 1 billion euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u55	I was talking earlier about benches more to the right than yours, Mr. Furst. Forgive me for reminding you, but the overall hospital offer is 90 billion euros: the AME represents about 1% of this sum, which is just under 1 billion euros, about 850 or 870 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u56	Hospitals don't make bills anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u57	In France, we have a certain idea of what medicine should be, of public health: if you do not treat people affected by AME, a number of diseases will develop, as has already been the case. If only for this reason, by selfishness for our people, we must maintain the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u58	You've tripled the cost of AME!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u59	If this argument is not enough, the universalistic virtue of France, ethics requires that a small percentage be paid for the reception, or rather for the care of these populations. On this subject, quite frankly, you have unfortunately gone back to areas quite far from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u60	Stop insulting your interlocutors, dear friend! I don't call you all the names! It's not courteous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u61	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Gomès, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u62	The IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote for this text. Of course, it is regrettable that it does not cover the whole field of the difficulties or problems specific to this complicated subject in the relationship between France and Algeria. However, this is the Government's first step in the right direction. The work that has been done seems to me to be a good one, and it should be continued. For all these reasons, we will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u63	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u64	I said earlier: the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, represented here by its communist component, will enthusiastically vote on this text, which is in the right direction. Our vote is also a call for other texts of this nature, together with other countries against which France has a claim on these health issues, to be presented in this House. With the excellent work he has done, the rapporteur has shown the way. I hope that our Secretary of State here will be able to convey to the Government valuable elements that will enable further progress. I also agree with my colleague Christian Hutin on state medical aid: it is our protection. Any person who falls ill, whether he is a migrant or a person passing on business, even if he does not benefit from any system of protection, must be able to be treated, because this care protects the entire population.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u65	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u66	Indeed, it is clear that in countries where access to care is lacking, where there is no free access to care, epidemics are becoming more widespread. This happens even in France. Poverty, life on the street, the living conditions of migrants bring back diseases that were thought to have eradicated. I know that wasn't the meaning of your words,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u67	I'm being told so much, you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u68	...but the question of the financing of state medical aid is also a matter of honour for France, it refers to the spirit of solidarity of our country, which must also be expressed in terms of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u69	It is not a question of abolishing the AME, but of reforming it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u70	The next speaker is Mr Frédéric Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u71	The MODEM Group will obviously vote for this text. I don't want to be ideological or moral. Having been a social worker in the 1970s and 1980s, I would like to point out that the flows which were reported to us by the rapporteur, and I thank him for that, were then reversed. At the time, Algerians who worked in France contributed, but the amount of benefits they received for their families who remained in Algeria was lower than that paid to their French colleagues. Because the proceeds of unpaid contributions were important, it was decided to create an ad hoc body, the Social Action Fund for Immigrant Workers and Their Families. France has thus used this money for actions aimed at these populations. Solidarity, accessibility to care are protective principles. It is therefore obvious, on the one hand, that this text must be voted on, and, on the other hand, that this effort to return to the figures must be continued, in order to avoid misconceptions and to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u72	That's right! We have to find the right numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u73	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u74	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law ratifying Order No. 2017-644 of 27 April 2017 on the adaptation of legislative provisions relating to the functioning of health professions' orders (No. 445).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u75	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, this evening our House is considering the bill to ratify the Order on the operation of health orders resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee held on 5 December. This agreement marks the desire of both chambers to arrive at a balanced text enabling the health professions' orders to have a stable legal framework. Indeed, the many challenges that need to be addressed require a convergent position between the two chambers. For the record, the text we are looking at is intended to ratify an ordinance on the operation of health professional orders. The aim is to strengthen the position of national councils by providing that they may be brought to justice or to file a civil suit. It also changes their management conditions through the reform of the certification of accounts, the application of public procurement rules and the generalisation of rules of procedure. It provides guarantees to preserve the independence and impartiality of orders and their courts. I welcome the conditions under which the agreement was reached. I thank Ms.Corinne Imbert, rapporteur of the Senate text, for the quality of our discussions. I would also like to thank you, Minister, for your personal involvement and that of your services, which improved a text whose conditions of development had not been found satisfactory by the health professions' orders in the previous legislature. The original bill contained only one section, ratifying the order. Now there are ten of them. I will not go back to the provisions they contain and refer you, ladies and gentlemen, to the parliamentary work carried out by the two assemblies. Indeed, I would like to take advantage of this intervention to address a few key points. The draft law contains a number of provisions applicable to all orders without distinction, in accordance with various recommendations made by the Court of Auditors and several administrative oversight bodies. Admittedly, it would have been easy to give in to the facility by means of separate draftings, which would undoubtedly have satisfied each of the orders taken in isolation. My deep conviction is that no one would have gained it, neither readability nor quality. Indeed, the principle of equality before the law is an essential foundation of our legal order. To avoid this would have exposed all parties concerned to the risk of litigation. Of course, this may lead to dissatisfaction with some orders, which would have preferred to dispense with new constraints. I do not misjudge this aspect, so much so! I recall in this regard that I have taken the initiative to introduce significant amendments, adopted by this House and supported by the Senate, following the hearings of the representatives of the health orders that I have conducted. Thus, in order for orders to adapt to the new legal environment, certain measures will be progressively applied, including the renewal of ordinary bodies, the certification of combined accounts and the application of public procurement rules. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is now important to transform the test by promulgating implementing legislation. On this point, it seems to me important to take account of the particularities of orders in order to dispel some fears, in particular concerning the adaptation of public procurement rules. Minister, I know that you will be very keen to dispel some misunderstandings, so that the objectives set by the law are achieved in a calm and constructive framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u77	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u78	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of Order No. 2017-644 of 27 April 2017 on the adaptation of the legislative provisions relating to the functioning of the health professions' orders, whose ratification this bill provides for, is to strengthen the independence and impartiality of the ordinary courts, to change the powers of the organs of the orders and to allow the application of the law on public procurement by their national councils. It contains a number of recommendations emanating from the Council of State, including the inspection mission of the administrative courts, the Court of Auditors and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, which, since 2012, have successively carried out inspection and control missions of the orders of doctors, pharmacists, dental surgeons and physiotherapists. It is divided into three chapters. The first contains provisions amending the Public Health Code, the second of the provisions amending the Social Security Code and other texts, and the third of the transitional and final provisions. I am pleased that an agreement has been reached in the Joint Joint Committee between the National Assembly and the Senate. In particular, it has led to the deletion of Article 3a, which provides for the prohibition of the cumulation of the duties of assessor of a disciplinary body and of the President and Secretary-General of the organ of the order. The Joint Joint Committee also rewritten Article 4, introduced by a government amendment tabled in the Senate. This amendment makes it possible to organize the presence of representatives of the Director General of Care and the Director General of Health in the deliberations of the National Council of Pharmacists only for the future, without retroactive effect prior to April 2017. Finally, the Joint Joint Committee did not maintain Article 4a, which provides for the abolition of the extension of the main principles of public procurement to the national councils of orders. These amendments to the text will make it easier for the orders to apply it without distorting the structural objectives pursued. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I would like to thank the rapporteur for his role in the search for a consensus solution and his sense of listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u79	Mrs Ericka Bareigts spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u80	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us contains undeniable progress on good governance. First, the order which it provides for ratification will strengthen the independence and impartiality of the ordinal courts and change the powers of the organs of the orders. It defines the incompatibilities, the age limit, the duration of the term of office or the conditions for determining and advertising compensation. Such clarification can only be beneficial and will contribute to the proper functioning of the orders. Incorporating a number of recommendations of the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, which in recent years have carried out inspections and supervision of the orders of doctors, pharmacists, dental surgeons and massage therapists, the Ordinance provides for the application of the law on public procurement by the National Orders' Councils. It also determines measures to strengthen their regional level and to increase the monitoring by the National Council of public service tasks carried out by regional bodies. It thus reinforces the control exercised by the national level of the orders, in particular through the certification of the combined accounts at national level. These principles of good governance, transparency and ethics seem essential to us at a time when some of our fellow citizens are showing a clear distrust of institutions of all kinds. The aim is to guarantee to everyone the independence of the ordinal courts, of which everyone knows that they have important powers. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Madam Minister, you have indicated that you will ensure that "the transitional arrangements to be made by Order in Council... best accompany [the orders] in adapting the reforms." This support from stakeholders is to be welcomed. It will ensure the best possible implementation of the reform. Since the order contains significant progress in terms of transparency and order independence, we support this approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u81	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u82	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, year after year, we have the displeasure of seeing strange business outlets in the press that call into question the orders of the health professions, whose opaque management leads to many abuses. The latest case concerns the College of Dental Surgeons, whose national and local advisors have received compensation of up to tens of thousands of euros. The Court of Auditors has also noted the existence of benefits in kind, in the form of gifts that Le Figaro has listed: great wines, tourist stays at a cost of several thousand euros, jewelry, luxury watch – and I stop there! We welcome the effort to limit the recurrent and considerable abuses committed by the health professions' orders. It is regrettable that it was not until the Court of Auditors' report – after years and years of waste and sumptuous expenditure – that legal proceedings were initiated in April. This is the result of the opacity of the management of these organizations and their lack of transparency. Of course, the effort to force them to adopt a slightly more virtuous behaviour deserves to be welcomed. However, while this bill to ratify an order is intended to correct these abuses, it does not address the core of the problem: the very existence of medical professional orders and, above all, the obligation to join any member of a medical profession. The National Council of the Order of Physicians, established in 1940, follows a corporate logic characteristic of a traditionalistic society. As for the progressive imposition by law of this logic on all health professions, it is anti-republican. Why would certain professions enjoy particular autonomy, particularly in determining how their members should be punished, when most workers in that country were directly accountable to society? We reaffirm this: we oppose the existence of a kind of court of private law, of exceptional justice reserved for certain professional bodies. In France, justice is done "in the name of the French people" and not in the name of a particular corporation. Here we are in the Republic! The order system is a de facto encouragement to white-collar crime, as it produces differentiated legal spaces. In addition, it provides lobbying resources to some professions that others do not have. We do not see in the name of what we should accept such an imbalance! As history has shown, health professional orders are archaic instances. Thus, the Order of Physicians has radically opposed the right to abortion and the erasure of homosexuality in the Register of Mental Illnesses. He also remained silent about the actions of a doctor convicted in 2014 for rape and sexual assault on several patients. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The "On the March" government claims to be from the "new world"; However, he chose to retain in this text the instances in which all the practices belong to the old one. While constantly urging workers to accept "flexibility", the Government has decided to retain the orders of the health professions. The direction you have taken, minister, prevents us from voting on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u83	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u84	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the ratification bill to improve the supervision of the functioning of health professions is in the right direction. The measures contained in this text reflect recommendations made by the Council of State, the IGAS or the Court of Auditors in response to more than questionable practices. In its report of February 2017, the Court pointed to dysfunctions within the order of dental surgeons: opaque management, suspicions of favouritism, cumulation of warrants and allowances, financial combinations... A lack of ethics that is all the more shocking when it comes to public health. The 2012 report of the Court of Auditors also considered very severely the shortcomings of the Order of Physicians in the monitoring of medical ethics. It considered it disappointing whether it was dealing with complaints, respecting or preventing conflicts of interest. These practices of another age can no longer be sustained. Both doctors and dental surgeons have denounced them on several occasions. We obviously support all measures that require more transparency in the management of orders and respect for medical ethics in order to regain the meaning of the public service tasks of the medical professions. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that we support the request that members of this profession not be required to register with the National Order of Nurses. To be a nurse, before 2016, you had to hold a diploma recognized in France and register on the list of the profession. At the same time, employees could join the National Nurses' Order if they so wished. Since the decree of November 25, 2016, the contribution has become compulsory. As you know, the body, which is mostly hospitable, rejects this obligation. According to union figures, nurses are mostly hostile: in 2016, 94% of them did not go to vote to elect their representatives to the ONI. There is no need to impose an additional obligation on nurses, although there are already guarantees of supervision of the profession. The automatic registration of the Order is first and foremost wanted by a part of the Liberal community. Today, however, nurses are concerned about purchasing power, working conditions and staffing problems: the College has never relayed these kinds of questions. Worse still, the state diploma is no longer enough to work. Some officers are not employed in the public service unless they present their registration receipt to the College. This is unacceptable to me. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We see this as a danger to the status of the civil service. The various debates that have taken place since the beginning of the legislature about public servants and the de-functionalization of the public sectors are not to reassure us. We will vote in favour of this text, while alerting the public authorities to the need to protect medical and paramedical officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u85	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill to ratify the Order on the operation of health professions orders was discussed in the Joint Joint Committee on 5 December. As the Senate and the Assembly joined on the majority of the provisions of the text, the work of the CMP focused on a few measures. Let me list here the stumbling blocks of the text discussed during the CMP and the position of the Republic Group on the move. The High Assembly proposed the removal of the obligation for national councils of professional orders to draw up rules of procedure. It seemed appropriate to us to re-establish this obligation. This will also enhance its scope. According to the case-law, the absence of laws or regulations providing for the enactment of regulations or provisions referring to the rules of procedure renders inoperative any dispute in connection with the breach of the requirements. Furthermore, transparency of procedures in the application of public procurement rules to orders is an essential principle. That is why we have re-established this provision, but with a relevant adjustment desired by the rapporteur in the Senate, to ensure that orders are not subject to more stringent provisions than public administrations or institutions. Finally, it was proposed that article 3 bis B, introduced by the Senate, should be deleted, which amended the regime of incompatibility between the functions of assessor of a disciplinary body and those of president or secretary-general of a council of the order. This is the first version of the National Assembly. There was an urgent need: as long as the order is not ratified by Parliament, it retains regulatory value and remains subject to appeal before the administrative judge. However, several proceedings have been initiated by the orders since July. Today, the consecration of these provisions at the legislative level removes the risk of cancellation which could weaken their functioning as well as the renewal operations of the councils. This order incorporates a number of recommendations of the Council of State, which carried out an inspection mission of the administrative courts, but also recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, which have successively carried out inspection and control missions since 2012 concerning several health orders: the orders of doctors, pharmacists, dental surgeons and massage therapists. This text thus demonstrates the importance of work between institutions to develop a fairer standard, closer to the actors on the ground and, ultimately, more relevant. All the measures adopted in the CMP will help to strengthen the functioning of the orders in the interests of organisation, transparency, modernisation and coherence. The rapporteur's collaborative work was recognized in the Senate. Prior to the first reading, the conditions for drafting the text had not been considered satisfactory by the health authorities; It is to be welcomed that a consensus has been reached during the parliamentary procedure. The agreement reached in CMP on this text will facilitate order management to meet the many challenges ahead. Be assured that we will remain vigilant about the conditions for the implementation of the text of the order, which will be fixed by decree. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] With the whole group the Republic On the move, I would like to acknowledge the climate that has prevailed in this joint work, both within the CMP and in the Senate and in the National Assembly, in order to optimize the functioning of the health professions' orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u87	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u88	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, adopted on the basis of section 212 of the Act to modernise our health care system, the order subject to ratification has revised, as its name indicates, the rules for the operation and organisation of health care professions. It identified measures to strengthen the regional level and to increase the monitoring by the National Council of public service tasks carried out by regional bodies. It made applicable to national councils of all orders the rules on public procurement laid down by the Ordinance of 23 July 2015. Finally, in order to better meet the requirements of independence and impartiality, the Ordinance revised the composition, designation and compensation of the chairpersons and members of the disciplinary bodies of the orders. The bill to ratify the Ordinance had first aroused mistrust. At the time of the review of Marisol Touraine's Health Act, senators in the LR group had expressed their opposition to the article which authorized the Government to take by order measures adapting the legislative provisions relating to the orders of the health professions. This article had been deleted. Indeed, if the route of the order can be justified for purely technical measures, this was not the case in this case. MPs LR had considered that "it is not appropriate to rely on the order on matters as sensitive as the evolution of the powers of the orders or the modification of their composition." The facts gave them reason because this order, raising many sensitive issues, was not the subject of any consultation and was challenged by all orders. Of course, the new majority is for nothing in these practices of the old majority. However, the introduction of this ratification bill, urgently, in the summer, with such time constraints, is incomprehensible. Thus, during the first reading in the National Assembly, the rapporteur acknowledged that the orders submitted for ratification had been adopted without consultation. It therefore brought together the health authorities concerned and sought to address their main concerns through a few technical amendments. In the Senate, the Social Affairs Committee approved the ratification of the Ordinance, while adjusting several of its provisions. Some measures were considered to be in the right direction: improving the internal transparency of health professional orders; strengthening the requirements of independence and impartiality. These measures strengthen the confidence of health professionals in the orders. However, the committee questioned the relevance of other developments, which could place heavy management burdens on orders. Subjecting them to public procurement procedures seems somewhat disproportionate, while orders have already "self-responsible" on these matters. The Commission also considered inappropriate the new possibility of replacing official pharmacists in the event of "exceptional circumstances", whereas the Health Act had already made it possible to take account of individual situations. On the form, the articulation of the ordinance posed some difficulties of legibility of the law. As for the substance, it raised some questions about the age limit applicable to candidates for ordinal elections or about the counterproductive effects of binomials of elected officials aimed at promoting parity in ordinal councils. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the REM group]] Despite these pitfalls, the majority did not remain deaf to the arguments of our group, notably deciding to maintain four articles introduced by our honourable senators. The Group of the Republicans welcomes these efforts which have made it possible to bring the CMP to a successful conclusion and will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u89	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u90	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this text aims to adapt the organisation and functioning of health professions' orders to the provisions of the Act of 26 January 2016 on the modernisation of our health system. The aim of all these guidelines is to respond to various recommendations made by the Court of Auditors as well as by administrative audit bodies. The aim is to ensure a better quality and greater transparency in the judicial exercise of the health professions' orders, through a review of the rules governing the functioning and organisation of these institutions. The main measures of the draft law are aimed at strengthening the tasks of the regional level, including monitoring, making applicable to national councils of all orders the principles of the regulation of public procurement as defined by Ordinance No. 2015-899 of 23 July 2015, and at revising the composition, designation and compensation regime of the presidents and members of the disciplinary bodies of the orders, in order to better meet the requirements of independence and impartiality. In particular, the quality debates in each of the two chambers have made it possible to take better account of the comments made by the health orders on this order. The latter had been able to find that the conditions for the preparation of the text were not fully satisfactory. I therefore welcome the amendments adopted at the initiative of our rapporteur or the Government, which have helped to remove certain obstacles. These include allowing orders to be consulted on the amount of compensation paid to the presidents of the disciplinary bodies, to re-establish certain provisions relating to the order of pharmacists, to change the age conditions to be appointed to the presidency of the ordinary courts, to change the conditions for the entry into force of the system of incompatibilities of functions, or to postpone the application of the rules on public procurement and the certification of accounts until 2020, in order to allow the orders to prepare themselves for it. I am pleased that the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee subsequently resulted in an agreement between the National Assembly and the Senate on this text. We are therefore about to pass this bill definitively this evening, and the MODEM Group welcomes it. As I said in the introduction, one of the objectives of the 2016 law to modernize our health system was to strengthen the role of regional actors. This Order, in the spirit of the Act, reaffirms the importance of the regional levels of the health professions, giving them greater organizational flexibility and strengthening their role in budgetary matters. In the spirit of the law, always, and in order to ensure greater transparency and impartiality in their exercise – transparency required by their missions and those of the professionals they represent – other provisions will allow the organization of the various orders to be harmonized. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of the six-year term of office in the national disciplinary chamber of the order of pharmacists, as is the case in all other ordinal courts, or of the gradual abolition of the cumulation of mandates. Finally, measures are being taken to ensure a constructive renewal of the operation of the orders, in particular by opening up the mandates of judicial bodies to young professionals, by introducing an end-of-mission age limit and by more flexible renewal of the members of the ordinal bodies. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Modernisation is at the heart of this text. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u91	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the success of the Joint Joint Committee of 5 December, we will take a decision today on the bill ratifying the Order of 27 April 2017 on the adaptation of the legislative provisions relating to the functioning of the health professions' orders. The order we are looking at changes the operation of the orders. It includes measures to strengthen the regional level and to increase the monitoring by the National Council of public service tasks carried out by regional bodies. It also makes the principles of public procurement regulation applicable to national councils of all orders. Finally, it revises the composition, designation and compensation of the presidents and members of the disciplinary bodies of the orders. This is the translation of recommendations made by the Council of State, the Inspectorate-General of Social Affairs or the Court of Auditors, in response to questionable practices – at least one might say – found during inspections or inspection missions. In its annual report published in February 2017, the Court of Auditors, inter alia, pointed to major dysfunctions within the order of dental surgeons. The provisions of the Order will improve transparency in the internal operation of orders and bring their disciplinary proceedings into line with the requirements of independence and impartiality. These improvements are welcome: they are a condition of the confidence of health care professionals in these bodies. At the time of the review of this text last July, however, our group regretted the lack of genuine consultation and exchanges with the main stakeholders regarding such important organisational developments. As a result of this lack of consultation or haste, the original text contained unnecessary or excessively binding provisions, which were not fully adapted to the situation of the orders. We therefore welcomed the adjustments adopted by the National Assembly at the initiative of the rapporteur, with a view to providing for the consultation of orders on allowances paid to chamber presidents or to postpone the entry into force of the certification of accounts or public procurement rules by an additional year, i.e. to 2020. We also welcome the changes made by our colleagues in the Senate, which have allowed this bill to become more flexible. I am thinking in particular of the provisions introduced in the Joint Joint Committee in Article 4b, which will clarify the procedures applicable to public procurement orders, in order to avoid the application to them of provisions which are more binding than those applicable to public administrations or public institutions. The UDI Act and Independent Group will vote in favour of this ratification bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u93	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u94	The next item is the debate on the bill ratifying Order No. 2017-48 of 19 January 2017 on the profession of medical physicist and Order No. 2017-50 of 19 January 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health (No. 281, 487).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u95	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u96	Mr President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to your House today to re-read the bill ratifying Order No. 2017-50 of 19 January 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. As you know, this order transposes into national law three new schemes introduced by a 2013 European directive: the European business card, the alert mechanism and partial access. It also introduces, at legislative level, a procedure aimed at securing and harmonising the recognition of the professional qualifications of European nationals for the five occupations of the apparatus and for the use of the title of psychotherapist. Finally, in response to the European Commission's request, the order abolishes the three-year requirement for European Union nationals to have access to postgraduate training in medical or pharmaceutical studies in France. I had the opportunity to tell you, in our previous debates last July, that I was appreciating the concerns that the presentation of this text has raised among health professionals, as well as a number of members of your assembly, as a result of the introduction of partial access provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u98	I then tried to explain to you the reasons why the Government was obliged to transpose the directive in the manner in which it did so. I had also endeavoured to present the conditions under which I intended this subject to be dealt with, concerned that I am maintaining the quality and safety of the care provided to the users of our health system. The sensitivity of this subject is still important, as has been further demonstrated in recent debates in the Senate. I would therefore like to return briefly to the reasons which led the Government to present this text in this form, to provide you with information on the European Commission's position on France and, finally, to reiterate the conditions for the implementation of this mechanism. The Community Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications of 20 November 2013 should have been transposed into French law since then, and no later than 18 January 2016. Since then, France has been exposed to two reasoned opinions from the European Commission for failure to transpose. This breach of obligations was the last step before the Commission referred the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union. As you have probably learned, ladies and gentlemen, since July, when I was reporting these risks, the College of the European Commission decided on 7 December to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the Union and to bring an action against France, but also against Belgium and Germany, for failure to fulfil their transposition obligations. The risk was therefore, not hypothetical or even zero, as some might say, but very real – and it is now effective. It is possible that the publication of the decree at the beginning of November and then, some ten days ago, of the seven orders expected, was perceived by the Commission as a sign that our country is now ready to comply with its obligations of full transposition. This is to be hoped for, because it would allow us to escape payment of the penalty payment associated with the referral to the Court of Justice. As I did before you in July, I would like to say with the same determination that I will be very vigilant about the conditions for the deployment of partial access within our health care system. Such vigilance may justify appealing to the overriding reason of general interest, provided that the authorisation of a professional with partial access poses a risk to the quality and safety of the care. This risk cannot be removed in a system where the respective competencies of health professionals are complementary and articulated among themselves, and are well known to professionals themselves as well as to users of the health system. The design and application of the partial application process by a professional will be extremely rigorous in this context. Firstly, because the Directive provides for three generic conditions, which must necessarily be met. The first is that the professional must be fully qualified to pursue the activity for which he requests partial access in his State of origin. The second is that the differences between the professional activity carried out and the occupation which might correspond to it in France are so important that the application of training compensation measures would be tantamount to making the applicant follow a full cycle of teaching. The third is that the activity requested under partial access can objectively be separated from other activities of the "corresponding" profession in France. If one of these three conditions is not met, the partial authorisation may not be issued. Secondly, because the process of examining the applicants' files also calls for the expression of an opinion by each competent committee, as well as by the competent order, for the professions in order. This second opinion, not provided for in the directive, was added by the Government, in order to strengthen the process of analysis of cases. Thirdly, because a decree in the Council of State specified the conditions and procedures for the implementation of the investigation procedure. I have indicated to you that I intend to ensure very precisely that its drafting can inform and guide stakeholders in the way in which files are to be reviewed, on a case-by-case basis. This was reflected in the decree of 2 November 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. While respecting the right to free movement of European nationals, the Decree provides that the opinions which the authorisation committees and orders will be required to issue shall, with the aim of guaranteeing the quality and safety of care, include the following points: the precise and strictly defined identification of the scope of exercise or the acts which professionals will be authorised to carry out under the partial access regime; a description of the effective integration of these acts into the care process and their possible impact on the continuity of care; the readability of acts carried out under the regime of partial access for healthcare professionals as well as users; any recommendation which would facilitate the proper integration of the professional, to which the authorisation for partial exercise would be granted. The drafting of this decree has been, you will have understood, driven by the motivation to guarantee the quality and safety of care and the information of health professionals, as well as users. Furthermore, as I undertook to do so before the two Assemblies, I asked the European Commission to obtain a map of the health professions in the European Union. The novelty induced by the deployment of the partial exercise mechanism within the Union countries justifies having such a state of affairs in order to identify, for each national health system, the scope of practice of professionals who may request partial access recognition. Finally, I would like to point out that I will be very attentive to the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of these arrangements. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, these were the most important elements that I wanted to bring to your attention about the dimension that remains the most sensitive of this order, which this bill tends to ratify.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u99	Mrs Toutut-Picard, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u100	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering this evening for re-reading has two clauses, each ratifying an order. Section 1 is intended to ratify the Medical Physicist Ordinance. As a result of consensus, the clause was voted without amendment by the Senate. Article 2, which is intended to ratify the order transposing the European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health, has been substantially amended by the Upper Chamber, which decided to abolish partial access to health professions. Our committee has decided, on the contrary, to re-establish the text voted by the National Assembly at first reading. There are several substantive arguments behind this decision. According to the recommendations of the most eminent jurists, the text provides for partial access for all health professions, however, a procedure for filing and examining applications on a case-by-case basis is provided for. This position is based on a constant interpretation of Community provisions aimed at preventing any form of discrimination. The same cannot be said of the a priori exclusion that some call for: in law, there is no indication that this counter-proposal is consistent with Community law. However, at the end of the examination procedure on a case-by-case basis, a refusal may be made for overriding reasons in the public interest. The recently published implementing texts have provided guarantees in this regard. Thus, the decree issued on 3 November provides that professional orders will be involved in the examination of any request for partial access, in accordance with the commitments made by the Government during the examination of the text at first reading. It also defines safeguards to preserve the quality of care: partial access will have to take into account several important conditions such as the identification of acts or scope of practice, the description of the integration of acts into the care process and their impact on the continuity of care. In summary, the procedure for partial access to health professions is linked, in law, with health protection. Finally, while the issue of non-transposition is not decisive, it remains important. In committee, I noted the lightness with which the possibility of prosecuting France was envisaged by some of our colleagues in the Assembly and in the Senate. It must be noted that the events gave me reason, since, on 7 December last, the European Commission decided to refer France to the Court of Justice of the European Union for an appeal because of the failure to notify the full transposition, with a request for a daily penalty payment of more than 53000 euros. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, I invite you to confirm the position expressed by our House at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u101	Mrs Ericka Bareigts spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u102	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Commission, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill tends to ratify two orders of January 19, 2017. Article 1 provides for the ratification of the Ordinance on the Profession of Medical Physicist. As a result of an important collaborative work carried out since June 2016 with the representatives of the medical physicists and the medical specialties concerned, the recognition of the profession of medical physicist as a health profession is a step towards the security of medical practices. This definition of the general framework and the missions of the medical physicist thus enables one of the objectives of the Cancer Plan 2014-2019 to be met and to implement the recommendations made by the National Follow-up Committee for National Measures for Radiotherapy after the accident in Epinal in 2005. I believe that we can all welcome the ratification of this text, which will secure the exercise of an essential profession in our health care system. Let us come to the ratification of the Order on the Recognition of Occupational Qualifications in the Health Field, provided for in section 2 of the Bill. The Ordinance is intended to transpose into national law three measures introduced by a 2013 European Directive: the European Professional Card, the Alert Mechanism and partial access to health professions. The first two arrangements represent certain advances in cooperation between Member States. The European Professional Card is an electronic procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications in another EU country; This system is simpler and more transparent than traditional procedures for the recognition of qualifications. The alert mechanism promotes the dissemination, at European level, of reports of healthcare professionals who would not have the right to practise in their home state, which is, each of them will agree, a clear step forward for the safety of patients in the European Union. Let us refer in more detail to the third mechanism, the partial access to health professions, which is of greater concern. First of all, this scheme will only apply to the professions of nurses, midwives, doctors, dentists and pharmacists, who already benefit from a system of automatic recognition of diplomas, since the minimum training requirements have been harmonised at European level. It should also be borne in mind that this scheme will benefit only European Union nationals, subject to verification of their training and skills. As you know, partial access is a legal novation that was first set out by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Commission considered that a masseur-balneotherapist trained in Germany could practise in Greece, in so far as his exclusion would have been contrary to the principle of free movement. This scheme was included in a 2013 European Directive aimed at ensuring partial access for EU nationals to certain medical and paramedical professions, which France had to transpose before 2016. However, it raises some concerns among health care professionals in our country. A decree in the Council of State will specify the conditions and procedures for the implementation of the investigation procedure. It seems essential to us that this decree be as clear as possible and provide a clear framework for the investigation of cases by the relevant bodies and professionals. In this respect, there can be no two-speed France, opposing medical deserts where partial access would be used massively as a means to other parts of the country where the use of partial access would be drastically limited. The New Left Group is extremely committed to the fight against territorial inequalities in health. My colleagues Guillaume Garot and Stéphane Le Foll will defend a bill to combat medical desertification next January. It was clarified that the members of the Social Affairs Committee would be involved in the drafting of the decree. However, it is even more important for the orders and commissions concerned to be so, because they will have to deal with requests for partial access and ultimately grant it or not. In order to prepare certain professions for partial access, we need to have an overview of the health professions in the European Union. It will be a valuable tool for authorities responsible for granting partial or non-partial access: it will allow them to establish the scope of practice of professionals who may apply for access recognition. France will soon have to apply to the European Commission for such a mapping. However, we would have preferred to have this tool before ratification, as it would have provided us with more precise and finer data. You also assured us, Madam Minister, that you would be particularly vigilant with regard to the conditions for the deployment of partial access within our health care system and that you would not hesitate to invoke an overriding reason in the public interest, since granting partial access to a professional would pose a risk to the quality and safety of care. The directive allows this to happen. This vigilance seems to us to be appropriate: partial access is intended to be authorised not in general terms, but on a case-by-case basis. Refusals can and must be pronounced when circumstances so require, in the name of protecting the health of our fellow citizens: this is the very condition of the success of the scheme and of the confidence of the French in their health system. As you know, our most serious reservation concerns the following point: the text of the directive provides that any Member State may refuse partial access to health professions if they have "public health or patient safety implications". Germany, for example, has chosen to invoke this provision, so that its citizens have the most absolute confidence in their health care system. As we unfortunately had the opportunity to see, particularly during the debates on the extension of the vaccination obligation during the examination of the Social Security funding bill for 2018, some of our fellow citizens are showing scepticism or even distrust towards members of the medical profession and healthcare professionals. Even if it is a minority, this phenomenon is nevertheless worrying. The exercise of medical or paramedical professions under conditions by EU nationals should not contribute to the increase in this unfortunate phenomenon. As indicated during the discussions, we do not know whether the choice made by France with this order is a correct interpretation of the directive or whether it is a potential "overtransposition". The issue is important: some health care professionals may therefore face unfair competition and, most importantly, the quality of care for patients may decline. This debate is not unique to France: a few months ago, fourteen countries were called to order by the European Commission, because they had not yet transposed the directive. Finally, as we have noted in previous work, this scheme is likely to create a boon effect, as French students who have graduated abroad could return to practice in our country and thus bypass the numerus clausus. This phenomenon is already at work, as we know, and it calls for a broad reflection on the adequacy of our offer of medical and paramedical training, the extent of the needs of our health system and the aspirations of young people. As these various questions remain open, our position remains more than reserved on partial access. We believe it is necessary to allow time, on the one hand, for consultation with health professionals and, on the other hand, for a sustained dialogue with the European Commission on this subject. The New Left Group will therefore not vote for ratification of this order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u103	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u104	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have here two texts of very uneven scope. The first ordinance, on the recognition of the profession of medical physicist, is a step forward that we would like to welcome. In France, we believe that to supervise a profession is to increase the level of safety for professionals but also for the beneficiaries, who are, in this case, patients. Medical physicists are specialists in medical radiophysics who are responsible for performing radiation therapy. This prescription recognizes them as a medical profession in its own right. It is welcomed by the Nuclear Safety Authority, as it allows for better supervision of the profession that has its hands on subjects at risk, such as the dosage of therapies. We still remember the tragic history of the Epinal Hospital, where, in 2008, then Minister of Health Bachelot admitted that 5,500 patients had been victims of over-irradiation between 1997 and 2006. A majority of professionals therefore waited for recognition of the profession of medical physicist, in particular to prevent new cases of accidental irradiation. This is a step forward called for by the federations of professionals, and we are very much in favour of it. However, it is counterbalanced by a second ordinance, which deals with the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. In fact, it is a matter of meeting European requirements to compete with healthcare professionals in each country. Once again, the Government hastened to translate a European directive into French law without really thinking about its consequences. It turns out that, in France, the training of healthcare professionals is demanding – it's quite normal. We are told that this text aims to "encourage the mobility of healthcare professionals" at European level, but it presents risks. Firstly, professionals will be able to compete, since this text does not provide for any social harmonisation. Thus, a practitioner from another country will largely depend on his country's social law, which is often unfavourable. Practitioners will therefore be treated unequally. Secondly, the training of some practitioners may not be sufficient. We know that training courses for the health professions are not regulated everywhere in Europe in the same way. It is natural that practitioners from other countries are not aware of the safety obligations imposed by the French public health code. Furthermore, we are not aware of the exact nature of the European alert mechanism, which should help to avoid a drift in the application of this directive. We do not believe that the solution to medical desertification in France requires the use of a form of work detached from the medical professions. The La France group deplores the grouping of these two ordinances and regrets that they cannot be voted on separately, as they could have voted for the recognition of the profession of medical physicist and rejected the imposed European deregulation. In this context, the imbalance is such that we cannot vote on the two orders as a whole. Our group will therefore vote against these orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u105	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u106	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, before dealing specifically with the content of the two orders that are before us today, I would like to recall some elements of recent context, which unfortunately will not bring anything positive. A few days ago, the majority voted on the 2018 health budget, and this first Social Security funding bill worries us in several ways. It pursues a policy of expenditure adjustment, without creating new revenue. It provides for 5.2 billion savings on social expenditure, including 4.2 billion on health expenditure, with the aim of restoring social accounts on a forced basis. Hospitals, exsangue, are, once again, targeted. On the other hand, nothing is being done to improve revenue, while the amount of employers' fraud on social contributions, estimated several years ago at EUR 20 billion per year, remains as high. The fiscalization of the financing of social security prefigures the detrictness of our system of solidarity, collective and equal social protection. In addition, there is an increase in the hospital fee, which will increase the patient's leftovers, with the additional costs reflected in the rate. This financial straitjacket prevents us from meeting the health needs and concerns of our many citizens, however: ageing of the population, increasing chronic diseases, abandonment of care, medical deserts and, in many departments, weakening of the protection of children. While the priority, in our view, should be to deploy a public health service throughout the country, the Government and the majority are, on the contrary, trying to strengthen the disorganization of our health care system. I turn now to the two orders that, in large part, have been passed in accordance with the Senate, with only one item still under discussion. We believe that better consideration of the medical physicist profession is a good thing. It was necessary. The recognition of this profession as a health profession is in the right direction, and we could have adopted this order, if it were voted independently of the second order. I take the opportunity of reviewing this text to support the claim of hospital sterilization workers, who also call for recognition of their profession as a health profession. On the other hand, we are more than reserved for the order to transpose various European provisions into French law. One of the most sensitive concerns partial access to the health professions, which had been widely criticized on the various benches of our Chamber at first reading. Pursuant to the 2013 European Directive, this scheme would allow healthcare professionals from European countries to practise in France without having all the qualifications required by the French State. In other words, some nursing or rehabilitation care may be performed by practitioners who do not have the title of nurse or physiotherapist. They will then exercise under the title they have obtained in their country of origin. It should be recalled that trade unions and health authorities had opposed almost unanimous support for the opinion presented on 27 October 2016 by the High Council of Paramedical Professions, which paves the way for a segmentation of the health professions. Since the first reading vote last July, the decree detailing the conditions for partial access has been published, but the measures that govern the recognition of partial access seem to be very weak. At the same time, health professionals continue to be concerned, as evidenced by the alert issued by the physiotherapists in a forum published on 13 November, which denounces the opening of this profession to insufficiently qualified people. We continue to fear the direct consequences that such a measure could have on the organization of our health care system. Its transposition raises concerns about the introduction of two-tiered medicine, which will have major consequences for the organization and coherence of our health system. In this regard, the minister, your explanations have failed to reassure me. To the extent that initial training and skills in health professions differ from country to country, the prescription could have important consequences in terms of clarity, but also on the quality of care provided to patients. Given the rigour required of French health professionals, what will be the conditions for partial access by European practitioners to the health professions? Partial access raises concerns about a low-cost health care system and a deterioration in the quality of care, as the level of training and qualification requirements will be lowered for certain health professions. This raises the question of patient safety, but also guarantees in terms of information for patients, at the time of consultation with the doctor. How do you know that they consult a professional who does not have all the required qualifications? Above all, this text does not forget the shortcomings of our training system, which now results in a shortage of doctors, most often generalists, in too many territories. Let us remember that one in ten French people today lives in a medical desert. These professionals will be appropriately recruited by health facilities that are understaffed or by our communities affected by medical desertification, which would obviously strengthen territorial health inequalities. It is more than urgent to act for this true national priority. We can only draw attention to the failure of incentives to attract physicians to underserved areas. But you're planning on extending them. For our part, among other measures, we have for a long time proposed deploring the numerus clausus, in order to guarantee once again a sufficient number of doctors to our fellow citizens. We also think it useful to think about selective arrangements for agreements in the overfunded territories, as advocated by the Court of Auditors in its latest report on the health system and, more recently, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – in a report on medical deserts. Unfortunately, the directions you have taken in your Access to Care Plan, announced on 13 October, only prolong incentives that have little impact on reducing the health gap. Above all, another solution to the overtransposition of the directive by France was possible. The European text makes it clear that a "Member State should be able to refuse partial access" in the event of overriding reasons in the public interest. Public health and patient safety are indeed arguments. This is also the route chosen by Germany and Austria, which have refused to recognise partial access to certain health professions a priori. We could have followed this path, but that is not the solution you have chosen. We regret it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We therefore believe that it would be more appropriate not to transpose this measure into our body of legislation. Members of the GDR Group will therefore not vote, as it stands, on these provisions, which, under the guise of promoting the free movement of health professionals, seem to mark a further step in the European project to dismantle the regulated professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u107	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u108	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am the elected representative of a constituency located in a cross-border territory and, like all colleagues in my group, I am committed to European values, of which I am proud. The free movement of persons between countries of the European Union is today a reality that must be preserved and, as such, I am defending this bill. It is also as a specialist doctor that I speak, a doctor who has always been attached to training, skills and in place of qualification. I will not go back to the European directives of 2005 and 2013, but I will only refer to the order presented to the Council of Ministers in January 2017, which transposes three new provisions into national law: partial access, the European business card and the alert mechanism. Since the other points have already been mentioned a lot, I will only comment on partial access, which seems to have moved some colleagues. The authorisation to practise with partial access allows a professional, fully qualified in the Member State of origin, to practise only part of the acts covered by a regulated profession in France. This authorisation is governed by very strict conditions and by a case-by-case examination of applications, which may be refused for a compelling reason of general interest relating to the protection of public health. It is thus provided that partial access to a professional activity may be granted only where the following three conditions are met: the professional is fully qualified to pursue, in the Member State of the European Union of origin, the professional activity for which he requests access in France; the differences between the professional activity lawfully carried out in the State of origin and the corresponding profession in France are so important that the application of compensatory measures would require the applicant to follow the comprehensive education and training programme required to have full access to training in France; the professional activity for which the person concerned seeks access may objectively be separated from other activities of the profession in France. The partial access authorization defined by this order strengthens the role of professional orders and guarantees patient information, thereby protecting the quality of care. In order to make a decision on a request for partial access, the competent authority will have to take the opinion of the regional professional order. The health professional shall practise under the title of the State of origin drawn up in the language of that State and shall clearly inform patients and other recipients of his services of the acts which he is entitled to carry out within the scope of his professional activity. It should be clarified that partial access is not applicable to professionals who qualify for automatic recognition of their professional qualifications, in particular doctors. If we can understand the fear of some health personnel and professional orders, we must also be coherent and pragmatic. So, ladies and gentlemen, why do we vote in confidence in this bill? The Government had undertaken to consult with representatives of the professions with an order and the draft decree would be submitted to the High Council for Paramedical Professions at a forthcoming meeting. Special attention will be paid to the drafting of implementing regulations and decrees. The Group supports this position and will pay particular attention to its respect. Any application must receive the opinion of the professional orders within a short period of not more than four months and the assessment of the skills of personnel whose partial activity will be authorized must be regular and practiced by experienced peers from the first months of practice. These clear and indispensable conditions, which will help to inform patients and health care professionals alike, give these articles their full meaning. No risk will be taken in terms of quality and safety of care, and France will honour its European commitments. This bill is a first step towards the reception in our country of health workers trained in another state of the European Union. We need to trust their competence, which will also mean sharing and contributing to our health care staff. Finally, this project is one of the solutions for starting to consolidate the delegation of competence and helping to combat medical deserts, because while the problem clearly affects doctors, doctors rely on a network and a network of paramedical professionals. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Since competencies and assessment are at the heart of this bill, I invite you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u109	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u110	The Chair, the Minister, the Chair of the Commission, the Rapporteur, today we are considering the bill ratifying the Order of January 19, 2017 relating to the profession of medical physicist and the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. With regard to article 1, on the profession of medical physicist, we welcome the recognition in the law of this health profession. This is a step forward which meets the strong expectations of the actors concerned and a double requirement for the safety and quality of patient care, a double requirement which we unfortunately do not find in Article 2 on the partial access of European nationals to the medical and paramedical professions. This article transposes into the health sector a 2013 European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. All professional orders are concerned about the transposition of this directive into our law. Partial access provides, in practice, that a European graduate who does not have the level of training required to fully pursue a health profession in France will be able to move to the national territory to practice only part of it, whereas we do not have any assessment of the number of professionals who can apply in France or of the very nature of the professions which might be affected. The imprecision of these professions creates a blur that can only rob them. It is true that this measure may create sub-professions that will only exacerbate the complexity of the organization of care. How can we control that a liberal professional does not go beyond the scope of the partial competences that he has been recognized to exercise? This measure reveals a mechanistic vision that reduces all branches of medicine to a juxtaposition of partial competences, without an overview or consideration of the links and interactions that may exist between the different bricks. It is a way of treating medical activities as a collection of objects that could be assembled and separated at leisure. Such an approach makes health a commodity among others. How can we fail to see that these measures would play the role of the platforms, by organising the balkanisation of the medical professions and by encouraging the use of stakeholders ready to accept a position of subordination if it would ensure a minimum of turnover for them? How could they not understand that they would sign a new stage in the dismemberment of several professions and would largely pave the way for the trivialization of low cost care? Section 2 of this bill creates total health insecurity for patients, who may find it difficult to distinguish between full-time and part-time professionals. The High Council of Paramedical Professions did not make a mistake: it rejected the text unanimously by its members. If this directive is transposed as it stands, the paramedical professions will, in fact, be on the front line. The sequencing of activities, which some see as the prelude to the uberization of our health care system, would create a multitude of poorly defined intermediate professions, particularly between nursing and nursing. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a good look at the risks involved. French nurses are now obliged to hold all the skills listed in the State Diploma Repository. Otherwise, they may be subject to a procedure for checking professional insufficiency leading to a suspension or even a ban on practising as a nurse. Why would the holders of foreign diplomas escape this control? In this context, what further meaning does it have to integrate the nursing profession into the LMD-master-doctoral-license process? The ratification of this Order is contrary both to the increase in the qualifications of medical and paramedical professionals in the European framework LMD and to the development of interprofessional cooperation. A number of practical difficulties are also to be noted. First, the potential additional cost to social security, if patients are forced to consult two professionals instead of one, given the limitation of the former's skills. Secondly, the boon effect for foreign trainers, while the training of medical and paramedical personnel is already the subject of a highly contested market. Finally, the question of the safety actually guaranteed to the patient, while there are already significant difficulties, particularly with regard to the linguistic competence of professionals. Today, fourteen European countries have not transposed this directive. Germany refused to apply it to the health professions. There was therefore no obligation or urgency to use the way of the ordinance to impose a text refused by the professionals and dangerous to the population. As France moves towards a supervised authorisation system, Germany opts for a ban with derogations. The 2013 European Directive leaves room for this alternative, since it states that "a Member State should be able to refuse partial access. This may be the case, in particular, for the health professions." The Government's main argument – "if we don't transpose now, we risk attracting the lightnings of Europe" – does not hold. The primary interest is patient safety! We must not be subjected to Europe. This way of making the European project live as a set of constraints is totally harmful, because the message sent to our fellow citizens is that we have no choice and we no longer have control over our future. This way of governing in fear of possible European sanctions must lead us to open the debate, and this will be my last point, on the overtranspositions of European directives. The concept of "overtransposition" is understood as the transposition of a directive which extends its provisions beyond what is expressly provided for. Where a text provides that "a Member State should be able to refuse partial access, particularly for the health professions", why not stick to a minimum transposition, as Germany has done, even as a precaution? I would like to point out that the Committees on European Affairs of the National Assembly and the Senate have delivered opinions which are unfavourable to partial access to the health professions. It is therefore the very respect for the principle of subsidiarity, the heart of the European project, which is being played here. I recall that Article 88-6 of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly or the Senate may issue a reasoned opinion on the conformity of a draft European legislative act with the principle of subsidiarity". This means that we, as parliamentarians, have room for manoeuvre in relation to European legislative acts, and that we must ensure that this is done. No, contrary to what the Government suggests, Europe does not force us to disrupt our health system! Our responsibility, like that of the Government, is precisely not to hide behind Europe in order to assume the decisions that will affect the future of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, let us ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is the cornerstone of European cooperation. Let's see to our sovereignty. Let us ensure the quality and good organization of our health care system. Because it is driven by this concern, by these concerns, the Republican Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u112	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u113	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Commission, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is intended to ratify two orders made under section 216 of the January 26, 2016 Act to modernize our health care system. The first ordinance recognizes the profession of medical physicist as a health profession; It defines the general framework of the tasks of the medical physicist, the content of which will be specified by decree in the Council of State. The recognition of the profession of radiophysicist as a health profession contributes to the quality and safety of care. That is why the MODEM and related groups support these provisions. This first order is well received by the profession. Consensually, it was adopted in conformity by the Senate. The second ordinance, on the other hand, presents developments which the representatives of the health professions consider to be of concern. It introduces a procedure for the recognition of the professional qualifications of European nationals in the context of the transposition of Directive 2013/ 55/EU. The aim is to transpose three new provisions into national law. The first is the European Professional Card, which allows a national of another Member State of the European Union or of the European Economic Area to obtain the equivalence of his training or experience, in order to be able to practise his profession in France, within the framework of freedom of establishment or freedom to provide services. The second is the alert mechanism, which aims to promote the dissemination, at European level, of reports of health professionals who would not have the right to practise in their country of origin. The third and final measure is partial access, which allows healthcare professionals to benefit from mobility in another Member State by being allowed to perform only certain tasks. These rules apply to professionals who settle in as well as to those who provide services on a temporary or occasional basis. They concern both the medical profession and the paramedical profession – this is the last point that raises the concern of some healthcare professionals. Our country has already been called to order twice, with two reasoned opinions. Since 18 January 2016, we have been under the threat of an action for failure to act brought by the European Commission. The partial access provisions, however, could have a direct impact on the organization of our health care system. The example of a Croatian midwife, less well trained than her French counterpart, who could be allowed to give birth in France is often cited. Partial access may therefore lead to a risk of poor quality and security of care, which would create mistrust and confusion among patients. Madam Minister, during your hearing by the Committee on Social Affairs, you gave us a number of clarifications to reassure us about these risks. You said that you would be particularly vigilant about the conditions for the deployment of partial access within our health system, and that it would be possible to appeal to the overriding reason of general interest, as permitted by the directive, if the authorisation of a professional for partial access posed a risk to the quality of care and the safety of patients. You also indicated that professional orders would be systematically consulted on any request for partial access. Finally, you indicated that the text of the order provided for the establishment by orders of a list of activities that applicants would be allowed to carry out and opened the way for post-checking. The problem is the level of transposition of the Directive. Do the ordinances transpose it to the letter? Do they overtranspose it? Do they subtranspose it? We could discuss it for hours. However, in a few weeks' time, our Assembly will be considering the bill on the right to error, which provides for a ban on the over-transposition of European directives into national law. On this occasion, we will probably discuss what the terms "transposition", "overtransposition" and "subtransposition" mean. We have read carefully the implementing decree issued on 3 November and the decrees of 9 December, which do indeed seem to us to provide a great deal of necessary guarantees. The decree provides that partial access will have to take into account several important conditions, such as the identification of acts and the scope of exercise or the description of the integration of acts into the care process and their impact on the continuity of care. However, further improvements would have been possible. Thus, it is planned to seek the advice of the orders, but this opinion will only be advisory. We tabled an amendment in committee to give this opinion assent; It has not been adopted and we regret it. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] In the light of the guarantees provided, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for this text. However, it calls on the Government to set up a partial access monitoring mission to monitor and evaluate these provisions, in order to guarantee to our citizens that the quality of care and the safety of patients will be truly preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u114	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are considering this evening aims to ratify two orders within very strict deadlines, if not hasty. We regret that, although we understand the need to bring our country into line with European law quickly. As my colleague Francis Vercamer had pointed out in the Committee on Social Affairs' examination of the text, the transposition of these orders is being carried out on a mandatory basis since, since 18 January 2016 – the deadline for transposition of the directive – France has submitted two reasoned opinions from the European Commission for failure to transpose. We have a mixed position on this text, some of which are in the right direction, while others will have a very negative impact on our health care system. First, we welcome the provisions introduced by the Medical Physicist Ordinance, which was ratified by section 1 of the bill. The scheme provided for in the Ordinance will make it possible to recognize the profession of medical physicist as a health profession. The current legal framework for medical physicists was so far insufficient, as it was confined to the regulatory level. It was necessary to give the profession of medical physicist a legal basis, especially since it is a young profession, whose numbers have been growing rapidly over the last ten years and whose importance in the care system is fundamental to the safety of acts. This recognition was highly expected by professionals in the sector as well as by health agencies and the Nuclear Safety Authority, which stressed the importance of the profession's missions "to ensure the safety of procedures in radiotherapy services". This profession plays an indispensable role in securing the use of medical applications related to therapy and imaging, particularly in the control of radioactive doses administered to patients. Finally, this is a major issue in the fight against cancer. In this regard, it should be noted that the full recognition of the radiophysician profession as a health profession is one of the objectives of the 2014-2019 Cancer Plan, led by the National Cancer Institute. On the other hand, we are much more reserved with respect to clause 2 of this bill, which is intended to ratify the Order on the Recognition of Occupational Qualifications in the Health Field. Our main point of disagreement concerns the introduction of a new system of partial access to the health professions, which will be in addition to the existing procedures, whether it is automatic recognition defined for certain professions by a 2005 directive or access to the practice of a health profession after observations of compensatory measures. The partial access procedure is based on a logic derogating from the mechanism for the recognition of professional qualifications, which covers identical professions existing both in the State of origin or training and in the host State. Partial access concerns activities, where the profession to which a health professional has been trained in his or her country of origin does not find an equivalent in the host country. At the time of the first reading of the bill, our group had already expressed its concerns about this measure, which we believe poses a risk to the proper functioning of our health system and to the safety of patients. Our honourable senators had deleted this provision, and we regret that it was reintroduced into the Social Affairs Committee. As it stands, we find several aspects of great concern. The introduction of partial access is a far-reaching reform, to which we are not ready. Today, we do not have any assessment of the number of professionals who can apply in France or the nature of the professions that would be affected. Moreover, this reform could disrupt and lead to a fragmentation of the health professions. How will it be possible in hospitals to operate effectively a service whose staff do not have the same scope of competence? The reform also risks creating an additional cost for social security if patients are forced to consult two health professionals instead of one, given the limited skills of the former. For our group, the introduction of partial access therefore poses a real risk of a decline in the quality and safety of care. Moreover, it may lead to a loss of confidence in the quality of care provided to our fellow citizens. Furthermore, the Directive allows a Member State to invoke overriding reasons in the general interest to refuse partial access, in particular if the latter has a negative effect on public health or patient safety. We therefore find it unnecessary, if not dangerous, to transpose the directive to the letter even though it explicitly provides for the possibility of not allowing partial access to the health professions. France has chosen to transpose the Directive to the letter, providing for a supervised authorisation scheme, except for exceptions, while other countries have opted for a different interpretation of European law. For example, Germany has introduced a prohibition regime, with exceptions. We regret this choice, especially since the other measures contained in the order are in the right direction – I am thinking in particular of the introduction of a European professional card aimed at facilitating equivalence in training between European countries, or the creation of an alert system to alert health professionals who would not have the right to practise in their country of origin. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As a result of the introduction of this partial access measure, our group is against this bill, which is likely to degrade the quality of our health care system and pose health safety issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u116	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u117	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Article 88-1 of our Constitution states: "The Republic participates in the European Union [...]. The resolution to promote the symbols of the European Union, adopted by our Assembly on 27 November, is a symbolic illustration of this; the transposition of European directives into national law is the practical corollary. More than just a legal principle, the obligation to bring our national law into line with Community law is thus the foundation and foundation of our commitment to European integration. The ratification of these two orders therefore constitutes not only a moral obligation for France in its participation in the Union, but also an imperative legal obligation. Clause 1 of the bill, which ratifies the Medical Physicist Ordinance, was passed in accordance with the Senate. After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee on 5 December, it is therefore up to us to take a decision on Article 2, which, as we pointed out in our discussions in committee, is aimed at transposing the European directive of 20 November 2013, which will enable us to fulfil our European commitments. If we often agree on the need to limit the overtransposition of European law, it is surprising that the opposition here supports the principle of a sub-transposition, which exposes us to an appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to a daily penalty payment of 53000 euros. It should be recalled that this directive itself reflects the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union since a judgment of 27 June 2013, in which the European Court of Justice held that a ban on the practice of qualified professionals constituted discrimination and an obstacle to freedom of establishment, the founding principle of European integration and the single market. The Council of State confirmed this interpretation and the impossibility of excluding health professions a priori, as Germany did. We have, moreover, heard the concerns expressed, particularly on the question of partial access to paramedical professions. The decrees and decrees issued this month should address these concerns, as the guarantees for patient safety and the protection of public health are provided. It does not seem pointless to recall, it is many qualified professionals who will be able to benefit from partial access to the exercise of their profession on French territory. And partial access will be granted, which means that it will be strictly limited to the competence and qualification of the applicant. This qualification will be well guaranteed by the establishment of a European professional card and a Community alert mechanism, ensuring that each Member State is informed when a professional has been banned from exercising. Above all, as we have pointed out, each application will be properly dealt with on a case-by-case basis, with the requirement to apply, given the importance of public health issues. The balance of this order lies in this: every European national trained abroad will be able to apply for partial activity on French territory, thus allowing our country to avoid any discrimination contrary to Community law, but requests can of course be refused. The orders of the various professions will be largely involved. Their opinion will be binding on each application and, as a guarantee of the quality and requirement of the procedure, will have to be given after a maximum period of four months. In addition, competencies will be regularly assessed by experienced peers in the first few months of the exercise. Let us, however, keep in mind the ease of thinking that training abroad would necessarily and absolutely be less qualified and of lower quality: this relationship is not automatic. We have also heard opposition to the risk of segmentation of the sector, particularly to the detriment of professionals and patients. Here, too, the regulatory measures taken pursuant to this Ordinance provide the appropriate answers: they set strict conditions, including the obligation to describe the integration of acts into the care process and their impact on the continuity of care. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This ordinance also contributes, at its level, to the very broad and sensitive objective of combating medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u118	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u119	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of agreement with the Senate, we have again decided on the ratification of the Order on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. Despite its technical aspects, this order raises two real questions to which we must answer. The first is, of course, our ability to deliver on our commitments to our European partners. Indeed, this order is the transposition into domestic law of three measures introduced by a 2013 European Directive: the European Professional Card, partial access and the alert mechanism. It also introduces the procedure for securing and harmonising the recognition of the qualifications of European nationals for the five occupations of the apparatus and for the use of the title of psychotherapist. Finally, the three-year requirement for European Union nationals to have access to postgraduate training in medical or pharmaceutical studies in France will be abolished. All these measures should have already been put in place. On the one hand, because of a lack of transposition, the European Commission has decided to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union and, on the other hand, we cannot ask the other Member States to comply with rules to which we are not subject. This order raises a second question, to which we must answer and which questions us in a world that is not limited to our borders: without disregarding the concern that it may have aroused among professionals, the debates that have so far surrounded it reveal a distrust of the qualifications of our European neighbours. In this regard, we should not be naive, but it would also be harmful to deprive us of skills that would be beneficial to all. With regard to the question which has given rise to the most debate, namely partial access, authorisation to exercise is governed by very strict conditions and a case-by-case examination of applications, which may, if the situation so requires, be refused for an imperative reason of general interest relating to the protection of public health. There are thus three conditions for partial access to a profession – I will not go back to that because they were detailed earlier by the minister. As these conditions are met, authorisation to exercise cannot be granted without the actors concerned. The process of reviewing applicants' files will include the expression of an opinion by each competent commission, as well as by the order competent for the professions that have one. The Government, through extensive work with the orders, has established high standards of requirement in order to ensure the quality and safety of care, as well as the information of professionals and users of the health system. Since we have the necessary guarantees regarding patient safety and the quality of the qualification, we can satisfy ourselves with this order, which will enrich our country with professionals we may lack. As you will understand, I am not shocked by the partial access device to the practice of a profession. He even leads me to question the possibility of opening certain professions in France to partial qualifications which would not be "sub-diplomas" but which would respond to ultra-specialised or specific requests. This order is also motivated by the right to free movement of European nationals. Personally, I have tried to put myself in the position of a professional wishing to practise in another European country: fully qualified in my country, I would not understand that I can be prohibited from practising, considering that my training is complete and sufficient in my country of origin. This order is therefore in line with the freedom and mobility of European workers, while ensuring the safety of patients. It questions and opens up a necessary reflection on the desirability of common training modules and of harmonising the teachings of the health professions in Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I therefore invite you to vote for its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u120	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u121	I now call, in the text of the commission, clause 2 of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u122	I have no request for an explanation of vote. I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1103.u123	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
