ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft finance law for 2018 (No. 506, 533).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u3	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally come to the end of what is usually called a "budget marathon". The final readings that are before us today will therefore be an opportunity for me to thank all those who have participated in these debates since last summer. I think, of course, of all parliamentarians, the majority as well as the opposition, the Senate as well as the National Assembly, and especially those who, amendment after amendment, clause after clause, have contributed to making the finance bill for 2018 a transformation budget at the service of the purchasing power of our fellow citizens and the liberation of the energies of companies. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You will allow me to have a very special thought for the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, who has been able, during the debates, to show tenacity and solidity at all times, with a smile and a sense of humour which belong only to him. However, I do not forget the opposition parliamentarians, whose insight and sense of detail have also led us to make various adjustments that are welcome. Beyond postures, there is therefore a clear space for dialogue between our different political formations. You will also allow me to thank all the services of the National Assembly and the Senate, without which this debate could not have been possible: agents, bailiffs, administrators of the services, administrators of the sitting, editors of the records... Without them, we could not have built such an important text for democracy, for the Government, for Parliament and for the French. Allow me also to thank my Government colleagues, all of whom have lent themselves well thanks to the fact that their budget has been cut, as well as all the officials who are under my responsibility and that of Bruno Le Maire. Without them, there would be no documents or budgetary debates. Some statistical elements may be able to convince us of the extent of the work accomplished: more than 100 hours of debate in committee in the National Assembly, including in an enlarged committee, more than 80 hours of sitting for the Minister of Public Action and Accounts alone, more than 200 hours of budgetary debate since the opening of the ordinary session, more than 5700 amendments on the draft finance law, more than 1000 amendments on the two draft amending finance laws. You will all agree: this first budgetary experience – at least for many of you, and for me as well – is enough to demonstrate the essential revision of the procedure leading to the vote on the finance law. As the President of the Assembly himself has said, as well as all the speakers who have followed the rostrum, the institutional review envisaged by the President of the Republic will be a timely complement to the work of the chambers in this area. The emphasis is more on the forecast budget submitted, by construction, to the economic hazards, than on the budget implemented, while the execution of the accounts carries out the work of evaluating the public policies that the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and we all call for. In this connection, I would remind you that in his speech before the Parliament in Congress last July, Emmanuel Macron called for a real renovation of the law factory. "Voting the law cannot be the first and last move of Parliament," he said. Just as it is unimaginable that a businessman does not spend time on the execution of his budget, one cannot imagine a local elected official devoting only a few minutes to his administrative account, including with his opposition. For my part, as Minister for Action and Public Accounts, I would like to see your powers of control strengthened. I'm sure that would sometimes help the minister to make his colleges and administrations heard right. Evaluation authorities are not limited to reporting by the Minister to Parliament. Parliament's own assessment of the Government should be strengthened, so that we collectively move from a culture of means to a culture of objectives. I have made a number of proposals to achieve this, which, if I believe the work that you are currently undertaking under the procedure initiated by Mr de Rugy, are congruent with your own. First, I propose to organize a joint discussion of the revenue components of the Finance Bill and the Social Security Funding Bill. This would be followed by votes on the specific resources of the State and social security schemes, and then by a review of expenditure. Secondly, I believe it is essential to go back to the examination, mission by mission, of the expenditure part of the State budget and to replace it with a single reading of the second part, on the model of the first. Finally, I would like to see the review of the account settlement bill re-evaluated by anticipating its tabling, if possible as soon as the stability program is presented, and by giving Parliament a longer time to review the implementation of the appropriations of the various missions – the budgetary aspect being only one of the aspects studied – during, for example, "public policy assessment commissions". I would also like us to be able to lay down in the marble the obligation for Parliament and the Government to table the amendments, unless there is an exception, within a decent time frame, which would put an end to the procrastination of the administrative machinery, which tends to table them only at the last moment – I obviously take part in the responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u4	It's a repentance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, these areas of reform do not require an organic law or, a fortiori, a constitutional revision. The beginning of next year would probably be an appropriate time to reflect on this new procedure worthy of a modern democracy, since Parliament does not have to examine budget texts. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] Mr rapporteur-general, if you agree, I am counting on you as early as January, after the truce of the confectioners, to monitor the budgetary implementation, with the special rapporteurs whom the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and you yourself have kindly appointed. I have proposed to the Prime Minister to receive periodically – once every two months – ministers responsible for a particular area, in Bercy, to examine, without the compulsion of July, the media panic and possible tensions between administrations, the nation's accounts, their executions and reports on the improvement of public expenditure produced by the various inspections, the Parliament and the Court of Auditors. I will therefore have the opportunity to see you frequently and to invite you once again, with the special rapporteurs of both the opposition and the majority, to examine the implementation of these means, thematic by theme and ministry by ministry. The presentation of these financial texts has given rise to many opportunities to rejoice, but also to some frustrations. Since this morning, our citizens can assess the increase in their purchasing power on the website www.economie.gouv.fr, and the number of connections shows the success of the process. I invite those who watch us live on television, as one of the speakers in the parliamentary debate would have said, to consult with him. We liberated energy through the transformation of taxation, defended by Bruno Le Maire and myself. In addition, I welcome the fact that relations with local and regional authorities have evolved very significantly. For the first time, the majority will have voted for an increase in the appropriations granted to them...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u6	We mustn't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u7	... and introduced a new way of relationship, which goes through the contract. It was difficult and innovative, but necessary. I also welcome the "syncrization" of our budget. When the Prime Minister entrusted me, under the authority of the President of the Republic, with the responsibility of the nation's accounts, I had to announce here not only difficult and sometimes unpopular measures, but also a "sincerization" of the accounts, each of which, in the opposition as in the majority, in the Senate as in the National Assembly, in the Court of Auditors as in the European Commission, stresses the interest, both for the 2017 budget – we had to close the gap of 8 billion between the decrees in advance and the draft laws on amending finances – as for that of next year. If we were to retain only one thing, it would be this: it is only through good finances that we make good policy. Finally, to conclude these many discussions, I would like to point out a few figures, which marked the budgetary debates. The National Assembly is about to vote for a tax reduction next year: compulsory levies will rise from 44.7% to 44.3%. This is a significant decrease, which accounts for more than half of the five-year promise made by the President of the Republic to cut taxes during the election campaign. Public expenditure is also falling in volume, which is quite rare to note: it is rising from 54.7% to 54% of GDP, a decrease of 0.7 percentage points in public expenditure. Of course, the grieving minds, who think that we are not doing enough, will say that we are not achieving the 0 % target for the development of public expenditure mentioned by the Prime Minister here, because we all know that this is very difficult, and we will do better next year, especially with the help of the rapporteur-general and the special rapporteurs. However, since public expenditure, from all levels of government, had increased by an average of 1.3 per cent per year over the last ten years, I am proud to present a budget with an increase in public expenditure of only 0.6 per cent. It's still a little too much, but you'll notice that the effort is extremely important, and we owe it to the work of each of you. In addition, the deficit is falling significantly. When I got to Bercy, it was 3.4%. I am pleased to see that, after these efforts of sincerity and economy, in 2017 it will be 2.9%, a decrease of 0.5 percentage points. Next year, despite the difficulties we have experienced – notably the 3% tax on dividend distributions or the insinuity of Areva's accounts – it will be 2.8%. We all hope to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this final reading will not prevent us from seeing each other very soon. We look forward with confidence to the decision of the Constitutional Council, which will be given in a few days' time, and are pleased to have laid down Act I of the transformation of the means of public action. I am very happy and very proud to have presented the nation's budget to you in final reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u9	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, I had planned to address a few words of thanks at the end of the examination of the last text, but, like the minister, I will say them now. [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] First of all, I would like to thank my parliamentary colleagues, on the benches of both the majority and the opposition, for their diligence during the preparation of these financial laws. You will understand that I have a particular thought for the group La République en marche and its whip, Amélie de Montchalin, with which we have formed, I believe, a couple – in all honour – as unexpected as determined and, let me think, effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u11	A modern couple, in short!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u12	I would also like to thank Gérald Darmanin and his cabinet as a whole, because he was the minister most present on the bench and it is very nice to draft texts with such complicity. The views exchanged on the bench sometimes make it possible to change the texts according to the circumstances and the parliamentary debate. It is important that ministers should not be completely rigid and be able to change their position during the examination of the texts, depending on the interest of parliamentarians from different groups in one subject. It is also important that ministerial cabinet members respond by day and by night. I would also like to thank the service of the meeting and all the staff of the National Assembly, because, fatally, when there are more hours of debate, there are fewer hours of sleep, and we have broken records in this respect. Finally, I would like to thank the public finance department, and in particular the division of the secretariat of the rapporteur-general, his head, Guillaume Bazin, and his troops: I have rarely seen so much skill, dedication and responsiveness, day and night, in the other services I have spent – there are many, including in Bercy. I do not know if the child's rhythm is always compatible with the journeys and the school rhythm; I know, however, that the pace of the rapporteur-general and of this division is not compatible with a sufficient number of hours of sleep. Thank you all: without you, we could not produce quality texts. I now come to what brings us together today: six months ago, during the debate on the orientation of public finances, a certain scepticism prevailed on several opposition benches. An audit of the Court of Auditors revealed a much more difficult public finance situation than expected. The 2017 government deficit forecast was raised to 3.2% of GDP. Some felt that the budgetary equation was untenable and that it was impossible to implement our presidential programme. The return of the deficit below 3% appeared to be compromised. [[Smile]] I see the climate has changed. The promises have been kept. We have embarked on the first stage of the abolition of the housing tax, an unjust tax territorially and socially. It is EUR 3 billion in purchasing power that will be given back to the middle classes this year, and EUR 10 billion by 20-20 – I apologize for using Belgian terms linked to my passage in the good city of Brussels and the Commission. We decided to increase the net wage in the private sector through the shift in social contributions to the CSG. We have introduced property tax – IFI – in place of the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth. We have adopted a downward trajectory of the SI rate – corporate tax – as well as the replacement of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – the CICE – with a reduction in social contributions. These are not just tax reforms that we have adopted: it is a real transformation of our taxation, which will be both fairer and more conducive to productive investment. In this sense, the 2018 Finance Bill is a founding and emblematic text of this new legislature. The efforts on the sincerity of the budget have been welcomed on some opposition benches. The insidious practice of under-budgeting has been put an end to. The Government has broken with well-established habits. The budget was built on a very conservative assumption of 1.7% growth. However, INSEE announced yesterday that growth will be around 1.9%, which means that tax revenues could be higher than we expected. Clearly, the return of the deficit below 3% of GDP and the exit of France from the excessive deficit procedure are no longer in doubt today. Last summer's skeptics lost their voice. It is in this context of restored confidence that we now have to pass this finance bill for 2018 on final reading, which originally had 64 articles, including an introductory article. At first reading, the National Assembly adopted 108 new articles and deleted two articles from the original bill. As a result, the bill passed to the Senate contained 170 articles, as well as two articles that had been deleted. The Senate voted 91 in accordance and confirmed the deletion of both clauses. It deleted 23 articles and introduced 71 new ones. In total, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, 150 articles were still under discussion again, since the articles adopted were no longer under discussion under the funnel rule. Of these 150 articles, we have, on re-reading, deleted 58 introduced by the Senate, reinstated our text out of 33, adopted 24 without amendment, confirmed the deletion of four and adopted 31 in new language, retaining certain amendments made by the Senate. The text therefore includes 179 articles, 115 of which have been adopted in identical wording in both chambers, representing almost two thirds of the text. However, there were still significant disagreements between the Senate and the National Assembly, particularly on the issue of the housing tax and the IFI, which justifies this final reading. Above all, the Senate rejected the appropriations for five budget missions, leading to artificially and unrealistically improving the budget balance by more than EUR 50 billion. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] After 257 hours of debate, the tabling of nearly 6,000 amendments and the adoption of 820 of them, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt for final reading the finance bill for 2018 in the version that has emerged from our work on a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u13	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u14	Minister, you know what is fundamentally opposed to your finance bill down to the smallest detail. Foot on foot, we defended our conception of social justice and solidarity between citizens. This conception, from the deep and distant regions of the Start-up Nation, seemed strange to you, as coming from elsewhere. It is that there is a world, Mr.Minister, gentlemen and Members of Parliament, between the President of the rich and the people's movement. This world that separates us is the world of money. When I hear some colleagues, who won between two and four times more before, complaining about the lack of power they have and the boredom they feel, that is to say, I'm a little terrified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u15	What does it have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u16	But when others, a striking image of a daily calvary, publicly confess to suffering from eating pasta, I laugh with millions of French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u17	You had to dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u18	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I would also like to pay tribute and thank the momentum of solidarity which immediately seized the whole country, with parcels of pasta sent to the Members of the majority. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I laugh not only at the indecency that transpires from these statements, but also at the sign they give. Far from the pirouettes of communication, they say enough your aversion to the social majority of this country. You hit her hard in this finance bill. The removal of most of the ISF is the striking symbol. It will no doubt benefit the twelve millionaire ministers within the Government. That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u19	[[Smile]] Not me: it's shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u20	And on your benches, Mrs. Panot, there's no millionaire MP?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u22	This is the opportunity, for those who would have missed, to recall the etymology of the name of your function. "Minister" has just ministered, Latin term which means "the one who serves". But to remove, as you do, most of the ISF and create a flat tax that is a ruin for the nation, is a particular idea of service. It is summed up in this well-known proverb, which has the merit of clarity: "We are never better served than ourselves. » Our public finances have suffered for too many years from successive tax cuts for the wealthy. You continue to create the conditions for a state breakdown, with the certainty of liberal ideologists, those who do not suffer the contradiction and who, confused with unfounded assurance, always apply the same inefficient recipes. This budget is based on teleological reasoning. You believe that if the policies applied over the last twenty years have not worked, they have not been carried out at the end of their logic. We have therefore been entitled to the usual choruses: flexibility, reform, adaptation, modernity and all these notions have long been emptied of any kind of meaning in the public debate. You have repeated to us the supposedly modern speech of the 1990s. Three decades separate us from it. Meanwhile, this speech has become archaic. These old policies do not correspond in any way to the challenges of our time. Among these – I hope you're beginning to realize – the one who commands them all and must articulate them together is the ecological challenge, which translates into climate change and the sixth phase of extinction of species. I stress that the ecological problem is not a problem among others. It cannot, as technocratic thought so much likes to do, be placed in a box and carefully ruled out by a few accounting tables. Ecology requires a profound social and economic reorganization of our country. It is towards the general transformation of consumption and production patterns that we must now move forward. However, the state budget you are submitting to us does not meet this fundamental objective. He's turning his back on our times. All studies on climate change show a worsening of the problem. Current trajectories lead to global warming of 4-5 degrees by the end of the century. If nothing is done, not only to alleviate this phenomenon, but also to prepare for it seriously, then the upheavals ahead of us could destroy our societies and make this century one of the most chaotic in the history of humanity. Nothing in this budget, nor in the overall coherence of your public policies, is up to the situation. You succeed in being both the men and women of the past and those of the passive. The unequal nature of this budget is, first and foremost, an anti-ecological budget. I would also advise you, Mr Minister, and my colleagues in the majority, to obtain the excellent work of journalist Hervé Kempf. His title is quite eloquent and has lost nothing of its relevance: How the rich destroy the planet. Hervé Kempf describes the mode of ostentatious consumption which is deeply linked to the system of irrational accumulation of wealth. This general thought, which would like that besides money there is no salvation, is not only dangerous but, it must be admitted, also marked by the seal of ignorance. No, our time is certainly not the time when young people must dream of becoming millionaires, it is even less so than another. The social sciences inform us about this: the more unequal a society is, the less environmentally friendly it will be. And since I hope that your vacation will give you time to read, if you are not convinced, Éloi Laurent's article entitled "Ecology and Inequalities" will be of great use to you. The unequal policies that you conduct are therefore doubly anti-ecological: on the one hand, they promote the wasteful and polluting consumption of individuals who no longer even know what to invent to spend their money; On the other hand, it makes the most fragile more vulnerable to environmental problems. They also promote a narrow view of the economy and give far too much power to individuals who, by their wealth alone, feel allowed to run away from taxation and to demand policies that focus solely on growth at all costs. "Always fewer environmental standards! The MEDEF and the FNSEA are shouting together. You're giving them too much. We answer them that the State must be a guarantor of the general interest and must not address the vast problems that are ours through the prism of narrow special interests. I want to point out a paradox, which speaks quite well of the few cases that you make of the environment, in comparison to the sounding and stumbling aspects that you have for the most fortunate. So you delete the ISF, which you replace with the IFI. Financial capital is no longer taxed on wealth, unlike property. Yet in unbuilt land there are all kinds of natural properties, which require care and protection. Those who are in possession of such land will therefore always be subject to taxation, where shares of fossil energy companies will be tax-free. You have created an incentive to sell such plots, which can encourage an increasing artificialization of the soil. While such considerations may be far removed from the golden salons, they are the condition for maintaining our territory in a proper state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u23	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u24	The Department of Ecology's budget loses more than 1200 full-time equivalents. With the integration of ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Control – and the correction by inflation, the ecological budget stagnates. You propose to devote 288 million euros to the conversion of the fleet to electricity. But this is not the issue of our time, Mr.Minister: we must get out of nuclear energy and carbon dioxide. It is therefore necessary to think of more energy-efficient modes of transport, whatever it may be. The energy transition will not occur at constant consumption. But you are, and this is an equally essential problem, a staunch advocate of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u25	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u26	Do you know how much it will cost to carenage nuclear power plants? Nearly 100 billion euros. Where are the great minds and the so-called economists to come and explain to us, in the face of this figure, the absolute need to cut in social spending so much the state is riddled with debts? Where are your magnificent reasonings on the rationalization of public accounts? Nowhere. Already this year, we have recapitalised EDF and Areva to EUR 9 billion, without any public debate. You waltz the billions with greater ease in some cases, and you certainly prefer to lead the dance to the richest or the nuclear lobby. However, I would like to draw the attention of the parliamentary majority and of all our colleagues to this basic fact: such considerable expenditure condemns us not to invest enough in the energy transition. The choice is made: renewable energy or nuclear energy, not both. Understand this and we will not despair that you can join our ideas and implement an ambitious plan that will lead our country to 100% renewable energy by 2050. We are not alone in thinking that this is possible and necessary. Projects and serious reviews of the problem come from the whole country. One last point before concluding, Minister: your investment plan of 57 billion presents only 24 billion euros of new investments. The rest was already budgeted. To give you an idea of the ridiculous nature of such a plan, I would remind you that the International Energy Agency estimates that the investments needed to ensure the energy transition amount to $44,000 billion by 2050, or $1,300 billion per year worldwide. It is clear that France will not take part in this effort in 2018 and will strengthen its debt to the world, especially those who will suffer most from climate change. You're a long way from it. In the same way, you claim to renovate 500,000 homes a year during the quinquennium, which is a commendable goal. But you are planning only 2.8 billion euros a year and 14 billion over five years. Today, the share of public investment in thermal renewal is 42%. Even if it were to be reduced to a third, it would be necessary to raise 7 billion euros per year of public funding for thermal renovation, i.e. two and a half times the amount you budget in your so-called large investment plan. We know how to count, minister, and so we know how to untruth where they are. So your budget is hostile to ecology. It is from another time, when it was possible to think that everything would continue as before, worthless, that everything had to change so that nothing would change. That time is over. Neither the government to which you belong nor the budget you present is up to the current challenges. Seizing his time is not a question of age, it is a question of critical capacity – a capacity that often flies away among those fascinated by the deaf noise of the market rooms and the prices of the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u27	When are you going to put forward your proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u28	[["Oh! » on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The ecological question gives a new meaning to a well-known expression, "the stock market or life". Minister, you chose the scholarship. We choose life and therefore call on our assembly to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u29	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u30	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Cendra Motin, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u31	At the end of the year, let me change a little tone and propose a few verses. If you'll allow me, Through this motion of rejection, So let's take two minutes, that's what I'm allowed to do. To make a small return on this first budget. From postures to debate, From refusal to concordat, You'll agree with me. That some path has been made in a few months. Walking, running, It's always full of gossip. That between sitting and committee We have all accomplished this mission. So many articles studied Published reports Amendments considered Passionate debates Do not, I believe, deserve a motion of rejection. For how can one reject Honesty Enhanced purchasing power Builders, employees? How can we push back? A simple motion to reject Two hundred thousand contracts helped...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u32	There were 465000 before!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u33	...Four million energy cheques in households And for the first time in years A stable allocation to the territories? So I'm telling you everything about go Our group will refuse, even if it is early. To vote on this motion to reject [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Because we'd been working too hard on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u34	What a creativity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u35	That's poetry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u36	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u37	[[Smile]] We will vote on this motion of rejection "because you had done so much too badly"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u38	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u39	We missed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u40	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u41	It'll be more measured!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u42	Of course, ladies and gentlemen, here I am again! It must also be said that you are taking time to adopt your budget and that the way in which some debates have taken place leaves me dreaming. So suffer until the opposition sets out its arguments and explains to you why, whatever you think of it, whatever your reactions, the budget that you have presented and that you are in the process of adopting is that of the ultra-rich. Whatever the way you will run your calculation machines, you will always realize that those who will benefit most from this budget are the 1% of the richest French, who will capture a very large part of your tax gifts. This is especially true for the holders of capitalist rent. Ladies and gentlemen, one last time I invite you to check it together. The decline of the ISF, transformed into an IFI, will cost our public finances €3.5 billion. Quite frankly, you will find it hard to persuade us that the 50 million euro bone to eat on luxury yachts and cars, which you propose to adopt, will make us forget to the French this real puncture of the state's tax revenues. On the other hand, we have often talked about the introduction of the single flat tax levy, which will result in a revenue loss of EUR 1.5 billion a minima. We will probably soon find that this undervalued estimate made your budget insinuate, given the bounty effect that I have often described to you: rather than being paid in the form of wages or fees, those who can do so will obviously prefer to receive dividends. As for the abandonment of the dividend tax, it represents a revenue loss of €1.8 billion. Finally, this question will have cost us EUR 10 billion. You have not only obeyed the Brussels injunctions, but also chosen to make us pay the EUR 10 billion that the richest should have paid, those who receive dividends. Abandonment of this tax is 80% beneficial to very large companies and not to SMEs. Furthermore, you are making no effort to ensure that this absolutely scandalous directive is repealed by Brussels. You have abandoned the idea of extending the tax on financial transactions to "intraday" transactions, which would have earned 2 billion euros. Finally, you have removed the last instalment of the wage tax, which will result in a revenue loss of EUR 150 million. You can repeat all the calculations: all these measures represent a €9 billion tax gift for the richest. The 9 million poor people in our country are entitled only to alms, to such an extent that yesterday, in questions to the Government, Édouard Philippe had a great deal of difficulty in citing the least allowance that the most disadvantaged of our fellow citizens receive, since these allowances are very small – in fact, the corresponding credits are often taken from the pockets of other disadvantaged citizens, not from those of the richest people in our country. So your budget is unequal. You claim that everyone will benefit from it: it is false, false and archi-false. First of all, the tax increases are immediate, like that of the CSG, while the removal of the housing tax, which you explain to us will compensate for this increase, is spread over three years. Similarly, the reduction of social contributions, which you have decided to make the French believe that they will regain purchasing power while in reality they will lose socialised wages, will be achieved in two times. It is therefore a game of dupes, not only in terms of timing – the increase of the CSG is immediate while the application of the measures you present as advantages is delayed – but also because you are actually going to give back to the employees what you have taken from them. Some French people will even lose right away: this is the case for taxpayers exempt from the housing tax – this is the case for the 20% of the most disadvantaged French people – who will still suffer the increase of the CSG. Even your carbon tax is ridiculous, as my colleague Mathilde Panot explained very well a few moments ago. It does not regulate anything about the dramatic issue of climate, since you have exempted the biggest polluters from it in terms of CO emissions, whether it is airlines, who consume kerosene, or the most polluting companies, who can continue to act as if nothing were, on the pretext that there are Europe agreements and a right to pollute – which we also condemn. Your budget is also the most austere of the Fifth Republic. It foresees a drastic reduction in public spending, by more than EUR 15 billion in 2018 – you are announcing a reduction of EUR 80 billion over five years – which is absolutely relevant to all sectors that the French consider a priority. [["Oh! »on a few benches of the REM group]] In terms of housing, we deplore the sharp decline in personalized housing assistance, the LPA. By the way, I'm not having fun – because that's not the right word – finding that you feel that a 5 euro drop in the APL is nothing, but that the 350,000 euros spent chartering a plane that makes it possible to earn two hours of flight are nothing either. Here too, there is a curious distortion between what you ask the French, especially the most disadvantaged, who must tighten their belt, and the practices of the executive, which you find normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u43	You're a populist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u44	Beyond the sharp decline in LPA, you are increasingly weakening social housing. This will inevitably contribute to the scarcity of available housing and to aggravate the real estate speculation we have known for years, which explains why housing costs about twice as much as 30 years ago. Employment is also a sector that could be considered a priority, but you have decided to reduce the appropriations allocated to it by EUR 1.5 billion. You remove 270,000 assisted contracts: this is the largest redundancies plan organised by the French State. I am quite surprised that Mrs Motin, who replied earlier, considers positively this decline, which will penalise many associations and local and regional authorities, and therefore the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u45	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u46	In addition, you are reducing health insurance spending and are planning to save €4.2 billion on hospitals, whose austerity supporters say they are still spending too much. I assume that you and your families do not attend public hospitals today: so you cannot realize the absolutely catastrophic effects of the efforts required on the health of our fellow citizens – for example, patients are advised not to stay at the hospital for an extra night. Ten years ago, however, we could pride ourselves on having the best health care system in the world. Finally, you are planning a decrease in community spending, even if you do not use the term "decrease". In your novlangue, you describe anything as a word that designates its opposite. So when you break social protection, you say it's to better protect us; When you weaken trade unions in companies, you say it is to strengthen social dialogue. In this case, you are reducing local and regional authorities' spending by 2.6 billion euros in 2018 and 13 billion euros over five years by trying to make us believe that, in reality, spending will be stabilized and that all this will have no impact. But there is much to bet that your measures will result in the disappearance of at least 73,000 territorial officials by 2022. I will not go further on the gradual elimination of the housing tax, which will cost the communities EUR 10 billion a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u47	We give more purchasing power to the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u48	I am betting that you will not compensate for this measure to the nearest cent of euro – we will meet again in a few years to verify it – just as the State has not compensated to the nearest cent no financial transfer made to the detriment of the local authorities. All this comes after the reduction of EUR 10 billion in allocations to local and regional authorities made under the presidency of François Hollande, in which the President of the Republic you have chosen obviously has all his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u49	It's the people who chose it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u50	Finally, let us twist the neck to one of your counter-fires: no, the investment plan announced will not be 57 billion euros, but 24 billion euros. You have admitted this in an amendment adopted at first reading – at least on this point, things are clear. This is twice as much as the amount that the President of the Republic had committed to invest. Your budget puts us at risk of a disastrous regression. The "austerity" logic that you plan to follow for five years makes us fear the worst for the country. As I have told you, your 9 billion euros of annual tax gifts represent, over five years, a state impoverishment of nearly 50 billion euros in revenue. By amputing the state's spending of €80 billion over the duration of the quinquennium, you will cause an "austerity" shock that will prevent the revival of activity and will in fact organise a rampant privatisation of the economy. In this regard, it is clear that a speculative bubble will eventually explode, as the disparity between the real economy and the financial economy is becoming more and more marked – we hope that this will not happen in the next five years because we do not wish our fellow citizens any luck. The measures you are putting in place will reduce public spending, which, however, plays a key role in increasing GDP. There is much to bet that this recipe will be missed when we have to deal again with the hazards and crises triggered by financial capitalism. I remind you of a fact that we have often pointed out but that you have not noted: between 2012 and 2016, these public spending that you like to saber prevented the French economy from entering into recession when the private market had become abhorrent. You are also subjecting yourself to the European carcans – in the end, it is a bit the alpha and the omega of this budget – of the deregulation of the labour market required by Brussels for at least five years and of the golden rule laid down in the Treaties. It is therefore an austerity trajectory that characterizes your public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022. I note, moreover, that this straitjacket may become even more binding if your idea of integrating the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance – TSCG – and the European Stability Mechanism into Community law, rather than keeping it in an intergovernmental framework, comes to fruition. National parliaments would then always have less power over subjects such as national budgets, over which they should retain their sovereignty. You maintain widespread competition between peoples, while fiscal and social harmonisation is prohibited in the European Union. This tax dumping is, in the end, almost encouraged by the few measures announced by the European Union against tax havens. Indeed, you denounce eighteen of these tax havens and leave as many of them aside, including all those who belong to the European Union – I am thinking of Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta or the Netherlands. In the end, by this omission, by not denouncing these tax havens, you encourage tax evasion. Finally, through this budget you celebrate the power of capital. I have often said it and I regret that Bruno Le Maire is not here this morning,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u51	I'm not enough for you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u52	...because he has at least the honesty of the policy he applies. He claims to be the theorem of Schmidt, the German Chancellor who, forty-three years ago – it does not rejuvenate us! – explained that today's profits are the investments of tomorrow and the jobs of the day. To the question we have often asked him why he thought this money would be invested not in speculation, but in the real economy, Mr Le Maire told us that it was a matter of common sense. However, ladies and gentlemen, for the system of financial capitalism, common sense does not have to be. This system has no morals. It is neither good nor bad: it simply produces a deleterious policy, whose only horizon is the profitability of investments on the stock exchange, and not the general interest. In this regard, I would like to point out that the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – introduced by François Hollande was already in line with this. It will have cost, at the bottom of the line, and even if the calculations are different, 100 billion euros in four years for just 100,000 jobs created or saved. You have decided to extend it for a year and, worse still, to transform it afterwards, and definitively, into exemptions, in order to make sure that this money will be even more lacking in the State and that it will go, for nothing – for it is not coerced and not arrowed – to all kinds of companies, including those that, a year or two after receiving it, announce dismissals. More generally, we know the results, on the old continent – and in France in particular – of the supply policy you are defending: if profits have actually exploded, investments have stagnated or even regressed, and unemployment has risen to a historical level. Contrary to what you say, this whole policy is not new, including in France: it is thus seven points of value added that have been paid to dividends and to the detriment of income from labour, and which cost our country about 150 billion euros a year compared to the situation that prevailed some 30 years ago. Capital, you have understood, is not unfortunate in our country, Europe's dividend record. The companies of CAC 40 also have a record in terms of the explosion of dividends – which, I repeat, benefits very large companies. In the end, as the figures revealed at the end of last week by several newspapers indicate, you are engaged in a deleterious race of the scale that aims to reach the most unequal countries, with this new standard that you propose to us and that would be to consider – what civilizational progress! – that it is positive to blow up the inequalities between the richest and the rest of the population. France, thanks to its social state, had managed to limit the damage for several years. Your budget wants to narrow the gap with our neighbors. You wanted to increase inequalities, implying that by giving money to capital, you would produce happiness and wealth for everyone. Now, we have been witnessing the exact opposite for thirty years. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] A spectre haunts Europe today: that of the bad accumulation of profits, which Mr.Gattaz welcomed again this morning on France Inter. Unfortunately, with the budget you are proposing, the entire people will suffer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u53	Mrs Perrine Goulet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor for an explanation of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, having studied this text five times, we are back together for the final reading of this finance bill for 2018. Our fellow citizens have elected us to embody a change. This budget is the first volume of the major reforms that we carry and will carry in order to restore confidence to the French. Through this budget, we deliver on our campaign commitments to free and protect. Our budget will support activity and investment – and therefore our economy and growth. It is aimed at all: employees, civil servants, entrepreneurs, families, students, disabled people and the elderly. It carries nice measures, such as the strengthening of the minimum old age, the allowance for disabled adults, the upgrading of the activity premium and the reduction of the housing tax to 30% in 2018. We have also taken into account the ecological field, which is so dear to you – I am speaking to our colleagues in La France insoumise – with the increase in environmental energy taxation, the generalisation of the energy check or the conversion premium when buying a vehicle. We have made choices and we fully assume them, in order to put France back on the path of success and modernity to respond to the new challenges facing us. This motion to refer back, at this stage, after the many hours of debate and all the amendments studied, is part of the obstruction of which the Group of the European People's Party is fond.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u55	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already listened to you for a long time during the long hours of debate on this PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u57	So what? That's democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We therefore do not consider it necessary to return to committee, and the La République en marche group will not vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u59	However, it was itching to vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u60	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u61	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr General, we have arrived – I almost want to say: finally – at the end of this budgetary marathon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u62	A little weariness, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u63	A lot has already been said. I will therefore focus more specifically on three points. First of all, Minister, I listened very carefully yesterday to your colleague minister, the government spokesman, and my arms fell. He allowed himself to criticize INSEE. It's a first. You criticize the thermometer when you don't like the temperature. It's also a first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u64	Everything's allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u65	No government before yours has challenged INSEE's studies. I believe that what happened yesterday is of absolute gravity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u67	INSEE is recognized by EUROSTAT, the statistical office of the European Union, as one of the best institutes in the world. Your colleague said: "We are formally contesting the INSEE study, for a very simple reason: it is that the reasoning is made with equivalent consumption. Your colleague, the government spokesman, was, some time ago, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy. He should therefore be aware that the budget that you are going to vote today includes, for 2018 alone, €3.7 billion in additional ecological tax revenue. If, therefore, the Government spokesman considers that there is no increase in taxation, we must immediately eliminate the €3.7 billion you are introducing into the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u69	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u70	What happened yesterday – the fact that a government allows itself to criticize statistics – is quite abnormal in a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u71	It wasn't a criticism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u72	Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u73	I have the exact text of Mr Griveaux here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u74	I too, because I recorded the video and made it a verbatim: "We are formally contesting the INSEE study." Watch the video, it will be much simpler than going to read the comments that have been written.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u75	Indeed! For once, you're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u76	You've already tried it with the Treasury. Perhaps the hierarchical channel had worked better in this case: the Treasury study evaluated the finance bill without taking into account – purely and simply – the impact of ecological taxation, as the fact of the rest the simulator you put online this morning and thanks to which you can calculate all your taxes – without ecological taxation. It's fantastic: the online simulator takes the good news into account; As for the bad, we hide them a little further: ecological taxation is not included. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Minister, I will quote a few figures on ecological taxation – but you already know them. For a couple with two children who live in the countryside, who make twenty lots of diesel a year and who heats up in fuel oil,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u77	This is the case with many Frenchmen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u78	That's what happens in the country. This is my house!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u79	In my house, too, in the mountains!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u80	You're defending fine particles? That's interesting. Good thing Ségolène Royal isn't here anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u81	This is the situation of many French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u82	If Ségolène were here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u83	They're annoying, the poor: they're driving in polluting cars!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u84	Next year, this family will pay 145 euros for more ecological taxes, and by 2022 it will be 576 euros more. Minister, INSEE has put before the eyes of the French the reality of your budget: tax cuts for those who earn more than 10000 euros a month and increases for those who are less than 1500 euros. A second point that embarrasss you, Minister, and on which you have never answered, is what the European Commission has written: it considers that your budget presents risks of non-compliance, but you do not say a word about it. Finally, Minister, I would not like to sow zizania in the Government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u85	Can we talk about the budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u86	...but some small things related to the budget are still quite funny. The Minister of State...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u87	Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u88	... had an amendment tabled for Lyon, according to which this city will benefit from 4 to 6 million euros more. At night, however, the Minister of Public Accounts – you yourself, Mr Darmanin – tabled an amendment on the allocation of compensation for the reform of the trade tax – the DCRTP. Keep in mind: while with the first version of the finance bill for 2018, Lyon had to be charged with 8 million euros, it will be 15 million with the Darmanin amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u89	We avoided it last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u90	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u91	Lyon will therefore pay an additional EUR 7 million and the Collomb amendment will not be enough, Mr Darmanin, to compensate for the puncture you carried out overnight on Lyon by means of this amendment relating to DCRTP. Mr. Collomb is not going to be happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u92	Well done, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u93	This Mr. Darmanin is fine at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u94	Amendments tabled in catini, without impact assessment, thus reveal surprises which can sometimes be bad augurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u95	What's that got to do with it? You defend everything and its opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] For all these reasons, Minister, our group will vote against this 2018 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u97	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u98	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are arriving at the end of the year and, if we take stock of the last few months, we can see that, since the beginning of the legislature, President Macron, his government and the majority of the Members of Parliament of the Republic on the move have first attacked our social model, with the breakdown of the labour code. Your project is more power to companies in the face of the law and less representation of employees. You have also facilitated redundancies and removed the penitential account: it is a world of unemployment, precariousness and social insecurity that you impose on us. You have attacked the refugees and the undocumented, in particular with the circular of the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior of 12 December, which apparently does not reach unanimity in your ranks. On the one hand, the State discharges its responsibilities; On the other hand, it criminalizes citizens and associations that help asylum seekers and isolated minors in emergency situations. Rather than putting in place decent reception facilities, you have chosen to target undocumented people in emergency shelters and encourage their detention in order to increase reception capacity. You have attacked the local authorities, which must always and still reduce their operating costs. The communes are not spared, the aim being to cut their food in order to force them to regroup, which, in the end, keeps the citizens away from their representatives. In fact, it is a recentralization of power that does not say its name. You have attacked the public health service by making massive savings on health insurance. It's the public hospital, its staff, and the patients who pay for it. However, the hospital is the last place of protection for those who are weakened by the crisis. The increase of 2 euros in the hospital fee means, for the common mortals, additional costs to the patients. Not for Mr Macron because, in his new world, people are covered by supplementary insurance that covers this expenditure. What he doesn't know, that he doesn't want to know or that he doesn't want to say, is that in the real world not all people have the means to contribute to supplementary insurance. As for those who have mutuals, they have already announced that they should increase their rates to meet this new cost. At the end of the day, then, everyone will pay. It is true that for the richest, the pill is easier to swallow at the end of the month. On the other hand, for one of the 2.5 million pensioners who have seen their CSG increase without being able to benefit from the exemption from the housing tax, for the official who has seen the index point frozen for several years or for those who have lost EUR 5 of APL, this will be much easier. You have attacked associations and people furthest from the labour market by removing assisted contracts. You considered them useless and ineffective while if you had moved to the field, if you had listened to people, you would have found that, in the majority, these people working for the general interest are necessary. In addition, the figure of 200,000 assisted jobs has been advanced; but there were 310,000 in 2017. Review of President Macron's social plan: thousands of jobs destroyed. With this finance bill, you propose to us the precarization of the poorest, the pressing of pensioners and the popular classes, once again forced to tighten their belts, and the weakening of the public service, yet the only guarantor of the general interest. Did you attack the richest? No, it's the opposite: your priority has been to meet their demands. You could have thought that to live in a more egalitarian, fairer society, you had to reform a tax. As long as we think about taxation, why not tackle a socially unjust tax, such as VAT? As we proposed in an amendment, with Clementine Autain, why not reduce the VAT rate to 5% for basic food and hygiene products? Let us forget caviar, which would be taxed at 33% since it is a luxury product. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Have you thought about lowering VAT? No, but you've been thinking about removing the ISF, in the name of runoff theory, that the incomes of the wealthy would fund the investment and employment of people who are "nothing." How can you, elected from the Republic, believe that for the richest 1% of the population, no longer paying taxes on the shares they own, or on the money they place abroad, would lead to the reduction of inequalities in our country? This finance bill and your general policy serve the interests of the richest, who represent only a minority of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u99	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u100	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, for my last speech before the final vote on the finance bill for 2018, I will of course come back to a number of subjects that we have been fighting for and on which we have alerted the Government to their disastrous effects. In the face of a government walled in its certainties, we fought against its plan which only divides the nation, opposes the French among themselves and deepens inequalities. We have been able to remain a force for proposals despite the great temptation to be only obstructed, as it is unbearable to see the adverse effects that this budget will have on a large part of the territories and the population. At the service of those who aspire to a fairer society, we will continue to highlight the negative effects of your decisions and propose alternatives for a fairer, more humane policy that preserves future generations. Of course, I denounce this company project for finance – in this regard, I will insist on several topics. How can we not recall the abolition of the solidarity tax on capital, combined with the introduction of the single flat-rate levy on capital income? These two provisions alone will allow for a tax gain of more than EUR 5 billion for the benefit of the most wealthy households alone. You are trying to make us believe that the effects of these tax measures will direct savings towards productive investments and thus boost the economy – the famous "trust". What about the theory of runoff, according to which the tax cuts of the highest incomes are beneficial to the economy and create jobs – real jobs, you say, not aided contracts that are useless: go explain this to those who have been victims of this decision as unfair as they are incomprehensible. What about the increase in the CSG for pensioners who receive little higher pensions than a SMIC, or the increase in the hospital package, or the decrease in the LPA? What more can we say about the supervision of the municipalities, particularly with a reform of the housing tax which is not one of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u102	What to say about the still declining means in many ministries, such as finance or customs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u103	No! At customs, it's growing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u104	Not in my department! Means in decline, I said, with job and cash cuts, creating a real disarray among staff, as is the case in my department, the Allier. Nor will this reduction in resources help to combat tax evasion and evasion, which cost the country 60 to 80 billion euros a year, the equivalent of the budget deficit. What about the endangerment of the public hospital, which will grow with this budget, accentuating the ill-being of health workers? They can't and will not only treat with words of compassion. What about spatial planning and housing policies, particularly in rural areas, which are forgotten by the Republic? Here again, words, just words. This budget, announced like that of the purchasing power of households, is not decidedly. I would like to take up my remarks and those of my colleagues who followed us in this rostrum last night, once again denouncing the conditions under which we had to examine all the budget documents. But, rather than all this, I prefer to rely on the common sense of the peasant and his great lucidity, which was so well told by the writer Émile Guillaumin, a neighbour of my village, in his masterpiece La Vie d'un simple. In this book, Émile Guillaumin tells the story of the life of Tiennon, a poor farmer of Allier, the life of labor of a small peasant exploited by dishonest, avarious and greedy owners. It highlighted a social but also cultural domination, clearly exposing the class relations between peasants and bourgeois. Tiennon, a "simple", is fully aware of the situation of domination to which he is reduced. At the time when he was driven out by an unworthy owner of the farmhouse and the land he had worked for twenty-five years, he took stock, noting that life was stupid and sad for the peasant: he did not take advantage of any of the sweets of existence, each season bringing his lot of labors that locked him in his condition and dependence on the power of the richest. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Faced with the liberal and exclusionary policies that are being pursued, many today could bear the name of Tiennon. Émile Guillaumin slightly missed the Goncourt prize; This finance law for 2018 will obviously not have it either. But it is proof that between 1904 and 2018, while many things have changed, others have, unfortunately, changed little. Convinced that other choices are possible, we will vote against this finance bill for 2018 – to the happiness of the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u105	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u106	"There is no favorable wind for those who do not know where they are going. Through this reflection of Seneca, I would like to trace here the course that guided this budget, the first and most important of the quinquennium, and the winds, the breezes that carried it because, this morning, we arrive together in good port. Six months ago, we were, for many of us, members of the La République group on the move, a crew of 312 unknown with a project, to which the French had just given their confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u107	[[Rires on the benches of the NG group. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] Today, you are 312 eating pasta, getting tired and getting divorced! It's you who say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u108	This project sets out three clear lines: to restore France to a country where work pays and jobs are created; re-establishing France as a country that invests in its future; re-establishing France as a country that fulfils its commitments. This project, these caps, in this budget discussion, have been our compasses and benchmarks. There have been swell nights here and days of flat calm. There were mostly words filled with conviction – a conviction that everyone, on the benches of the majority and of the opposition, carries to the service of the French. This project, these caps have guided us in the last seventy days and nights of careful, sometimes tedious, precise work, with a lot of exchanges and work. But most of all we have had discussions on our policies, on the reforms we want to pursue and on the means that make them possible. The wind of the presidential and legislative elections was favourable to us, but without this project and these clear caps, we could have lost ourselves on our way; lose ourselves in a budgetary process that we absolutely need to review in depth so that it helps us to work more on the evaluation and monitoring of what we vote; We lose ourselves in the multitude of amendments that sometimes lead us to focus on the scum of rhetoric rather than on the substantive dialogue on the profound transformation our country is waiting for. We could also have lost ourselves by thinking that taxation could drive public policies when we too often for decades have confused tools and objectives. We could have lost ourselves in technical discussions that made us forget that most of our role as a Member of Parliament is to be elected in the service of the French. This morning, we can collectively retrace with confidence the journey and the fruits of our choices. In January, the French will see on their payroll that their purchasing power is increasing; they will see that our investment in school and higher education is strengthened; They will see that we are reforming our housing policy to provide better and better housing for the French where jobs are located; They will see that investment in SMEs is again encouraged, after decades of taxation acting as a push back. This morning, we can also look at the path that still needs to be taken: five years for the framework that we are setting to serve the transformation of France; five years for public policies to regain their ambition and meaning; five years for the French to see us fully mobilized to implement, monitor and adjust this budget – a budget of sincerity, choice and conquest; a budget that makes it possible to do what has been said; A budget that knows where he's going. [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thank you to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, officers and administrators of the Assembly, Mr. Rapporteur-General, Mr.Minister, Mr.President, for having been able to follow and create the favourable winds that bring us this morning, together, in good port, until the vote on this finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u109	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u110	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, in a country which is almost 100 % in debt, we first see a budget at its deficit level. In this case, your performance, Minister, is mediocre; She's even bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u111	It's dropping!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u112	Indeed, the deficit will be 84 billion in 2018, compared to 69 billion in 2016. As early as 2017, the accounts derailed: while we had projected a deficit of 70 billion, we will end at around 74 to 75 billion. The second criterion for assessing a budget is whether tax reductions are financed by savings. In this budget, however, tax cuts are financed by the deficit – hence by the debt. But, in truth, are there any tax cuts for all French people? Obviously, no. There are some for businesses – a reduction in corporate tax, a reduction in the 3% dividend tax – from €5 billion to €6 billion. There are tax cuts concentrated on a few tens of thousands of households, with the partial abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the single flat-rate levy: these reforms were necessary and I agree with them, but we must be aware that the 4 to 5 billion decreases are concentrated on a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u114	What about the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u115	There's the removal of the housing tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u116	For the 37 million tax households in our country, taxes will increase sharply as of January.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u117	Even Gilles Carrez says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u118	Let's do the accounting together – they're indisputable. Of the 22 billion increase in the CSG, in 2018 only 18 billion are returned. That's over $4 billion. Who will pay? Pensioners! Minister, in Tourcoing, a pensioner in charge of 1,400 euros a month...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u119	I'd be happy if Tourcoing's retirees made 1,400 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u120	...is he an affluent to be punctured 250 to 300 euros in the year?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u121	Tourcoing is not Le Perreux, Mr Carrez: pensioners don't earn 1,400 euros a month!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u122	Let us just talk about the EUR 4 billion linked to the increase in the price of tobacco and fuels – this also concerns the middle classes. I remember you invited me to Tourcoing in very ancient times, and we had seen the desert about the Buralists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u123	Yes! There's no more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u124	I tell you, with the crazy trajectory that will lead to an increase of 30 cents the tax on diesel or domestic fuel oil and 15 cents the tax on petrol by 2022, you will have to address daily prayers to heaven so that the price of the barrel of oil does not fly too high.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u125	You have to pray to Saint Emmanuel!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u126	Moreover, Minister, when the price at the pump, which is about to exceed 1.50 euro per litre will reach 2 euros, you will see what will happen at Tourcoing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u127	No problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u128	Who's gonna pay? The middle classes, once again, despite the reduction of the housing tax. At the beginning of October, you presented yourself as the minister of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u129	That's right! And I keep doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u130	In December, as the INSEE demonstrates without any dispute – you are right, Mrs Rabault – you became the minister of tax increases.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u131	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u132	As I like you, Minister, I would not like you to be given the label of the tax baton, as happened for your predecessor five years ago. As for savings, there are none, or so few. I will give two examples. In the case of state officials, 324 out of 2 million posts have been abolished, while the number of staff has risen again in the last two years – more than 16,000 in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u133	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u134	The decrease in the LPA – EUR 1.5 billion less – is the only structural reform in this budget. I told you you were going to be defeated by the HLM lobby. It's not a defeat: it's a capitulation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u135	It's Waterloo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u136	... since the expected economy is replaced by an increase in VAT, from 5.5% to 10% on housing construction, which will lead to an increase in rents, which will necessarily result in an increase in the LPA. It is a French evil: tax increases are always preferred to expenditure reductions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u137	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u138	Our colleague François Pupponi remembers the lobbying that the HLM Union carried out some 15 years ago to get a reduction in VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u140	And now they are asking for an increase in VAT: understand who can. [[Applause on the benches of the LR,NG, GDR and FI groups]] Your new policy is in fact the old recipes of the past, to which must be added clientelism. Confiscating the contribution on the added value of companies – the CVAE – to the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region for the benefit of Lyon's metropolis is customerelism! It is a marked breakdown of equality. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, Mr Minister, you will understand that our group will vote against this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u141	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u142	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have gathered here for the final reading of the three budget texts for the end of the year: the first "cloud" in 2017, the second launches 2018 and the last sets the framework and course of this legislature. The 2018 Finance Bill, complemented by the Social Security Funding Bill, was ambitious by incorporating much of the measures and trajectories resulting from the commitments we made during the presidential and legislative campaigns. I must tell you that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers the exercise to be successful. To illustrate this intellectual exercise, we can easily use the words of the one we celebrate the centenary of the arrival of the Presidency of the Council: "We need to know what we want. When you know it, you have to have the courage to say it; When you say it, you have to have the courage to do it. » This budget is a budget to put France back on the track of growth and employment. This budget is the budget for commitments last May. This budget is the budget of one country running will say one, on the move will say the other, and in our view we are progressing. The incentive to the ecological and energy transition and the accompaniment in this direction, as our planet sends, every year, more and more distress signals; fair remuneration, paid work, the creation of an enabling environment for saving investment in the productive economy, in a context of high unemployment and increased international competition; the abolition of unfair or ineffective taxes or schemes to restore purchasing power to our citizens and simplify French taxation: all these axes, implemented in the budget texts, are the first budgetary stone of the construction of an ambitious project for France that our majority wants to set up for the next five years. For all of this, because we firmly believe that these are the subjects that need to be dealt with urgently, that the way you have proposed is the right one, that the dialogue in this House has been constructive, we support you, Minister. This first stone will allow – this is our objective – to build a France based on its intermediate bodies. Our group has been and will continue to be very attentive to the development and support of our associative fabric. We will not let go, Minister. This stone will also make it possible to build a responsible and respectful France, a social and solidarity France, attentive to the vitality of its communes, rural or urban, overseas, island or metropolitan, but also respectful of the family policy that is dear to us; a human France, a France that liberates and protects, a France that allows the emancipation of each and every one of our fellow citizens. [[Smile]] Of course the debates are numerous, sometimes passionate but always relevant, within our group, the majority, the whole of our assembly and more broadly with our fellow citizens. This debate is necessary and we are committed to it. It is a sign of democratic vitality and enriches the texts we vote on. As a great politician in our country said so well – I'm sure you'll recognize it – "If we all think the same thing, we don't think anything anymore. » [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] Our group will vote on this finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u143	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u144	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to stress the excellent proposal made by our rapporteur-general for a general discussion common to the three texts which we are discussing today at last reading and which are fully linked. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been implemented and I regret it. I hope that the reform of the budgetary procedure can be based on this. We are here today to look at the first five-year budget for the last time. The debates were interesting, passionate, but the 70-day deadline comes to an end, it is now necessary to endorse the decisions. Throughout the parliamentary work on this PLF, our group has been very active and has consistently held a pragmatic and constructive speech. We will logically remain faithful to this philosophy. This budget is undoubtedly astonished by a certain sincerity and even a certain political courage. This sincerity is a real revolution and without having seen at work a "new world" with regard to the management of parliamentary work and government amendments, we have seen at least one government anxious to focus on realistic forecasts. We very much hope that this method will continue for future financial laws and that future texts can be discussed more calmly and effectively. We have also repeatedly stressed the measures that are in the right direction. This is the case with the single flat-rate levy, the abolition of one part of the ISF and everything that can accompany our economy, our companies to enable them to consolidate their activity. We have also noted measures that leave us with a taste for incompleteness or cause too much concern. This is the case with the removal of part of the housing tax, which is of great concern to local elected officials and which maintains the unfairness of this tax for 20% of taxpayers. The reform of the tax credit for the energy transition – the ISCED – also seems to us to be incomplete and we regret that the proposals to review the 2017 expenditure related to aid for the energy renovation of private housing have not been accepted. We have also opposed some of the measures that we have severely considered. This is the case with Article 52, on the reduction of the LPA in the social park. Parliamentarians were confronted with an article that was in fact used as a draft for negotiations between the Government and social donors. Above all, you have taken the problem backwards, asking donors for substantial efforts to reduce rents, while a housing bill, which will probably include grouping of offices, will be submitted to us next year. We are convinced that with more time and method, it would have been possible to arrive at a more differentiated solution, because despite your equalization scheme, we still believe that it is not fair to call on all offices to do so, while not all have the same proportion of LPA tenants and that not all are pursuing the same investment or management policies. The LPA-acceptance has almost passed through the trap and been the collateral victim of these savings imposed from above. It will eventually be maintained in one of its components and in the relaxed areas. If I look at this, it is because we see it as a real black spot in this budget, even if you have been able to mitigate it. Finally, it illustrates a real method problem. We are aware that seven months may not be enough for a new government to define comprehensive and far-reaching reforms, but I believe that you would benefit from proposing such reforms only when they are fully defined rather than piecemeal as has happened for housing. We also invite you to continue what you have been able to commit to communities with the contract. Yes, we believe in collective intelligence; Yes, we believe in the ability of the territories to organize themselves and define their own needs and find the best ways to meet them. Finally, as you know, our group is particularly committed to controlling public expenditure, reducing the deficit and deleveraging. In particular, attention must be paid to the development of the State's wage bill. We therefore call on you to stay on course, not to do so half-way, to remove certain areas of shadow and to complete the reforms that are essential for our country, for the prosperity of our citizens and our businesses. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] This first budget is therefore a first step that allows you to launch certain reforms, the most important of which is the support of our economy. I hope that the second stage can be a comprehensive reform of French, local and national taxation, which will also be a true support for our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u145	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u146	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers, whatever their group, and to stress the interest and even the pleasure we have had in discussing it together – that is why we are doing politics. I hear each other's arguments. I would like to thank the speakers of the La France group for their unsolicited statements. Even if we do not agree on much, you can be recognized with a certain consistency and a certain amount of work, which is to be welcomed even if I think that, fundamentally, you are mistaken in your analysis of society and the economy – but that will not surprise you, since you yourself have emphasized our differences. I would like to thank the Communist group through you, Mr Dufrègne. Mr Roussel has been particularly present in these debates, and even if, again, we are opposed to the essentials, our Republican debates have shown that there is obviously a place for the opposition to speak and its representation in this House. [[Smile]] I would particularly like to thank Mrs Amélie de Montchalin de La République for her encouraging remarks. Going after it the maritime metaphor, I will say that we arrive at a good port today – in any case we hope – before returning to the sea probably at the beginning of next year. His demonstration was perhaps more directed to the Prime Minister, whose love for the sea and Le Havre are known, and even to Mr Mélenchon himself, who spoke a lot about the sea, than to myself, who may have a slightly more earthly vision. But after all, being in the department of Jean Bart, I feel a little corsairy. Thank you, Mrs El Haïry – and through you all the speakers in the MODEM Group who have spoken in the budgetary debates, including Mr Bourlanges, Mr Mattei and Mr Fesneau. We have not always agreed on the most symbolic issues. We were able to have disagreements not on the substance but on the timetable for the reform of the State. I am thinking in particular of the debate we had with Mrs Buzyn on family policy in the context of the review of the PLFSS. These disagreements sometimes occurred within the group itself – I am thinking in particular of sampling at source. We were able to work intelligently, since MODEM was obviously an integral part of the majority. As such, I believe that the Department of Action and Public Accounts has been particularly attentive and has been able to express its disagreement when necessary, while finding compromises. I hope that we can continue to work in the same spirit, understanding each other's specificities and knowing that a rainbow is composed of several colours. That is how we work for the well-being of the nation. I would point out that while the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts obviously regretted the late tabling of a number of amendments, it did not use certain procedures, including the second deliberation, which is evidence of respect for parliamentarians. I would add that we have not gone back in a hidden way, either in a new reading or through government amendments, to certain provisions adopted at first reading. Again, it was a way of respecting the work of parliamentarians. I myself, it seems to me, strongly urged the administration to respect the free work of the rapporteur-general, special rapporteurs and parliamentarians. I thank Mrs Lise Magnier for her constructive remarks. I understand that the vote of the group to which it belongs will be shared. I also thank her for pointing out that in seven months it is not possible to change the whole of France and its budget, and I thank her, finally, for her encouragement. I thank Mrs Rabault and the whole Socialist Group... New left, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u147	We can say "socialist"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u148	[[Smile]] "It's a nice name, comrade," as the singer said, even if he didn't necessarily address the socialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u149	He was a communist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u150	Exactly! It is nevertheless quite surprising, Mrs Rabault, to see you also attached to the figures, to the statistics...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u151	I love them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u152	...and the legal register. I tend to think that, in a trial, when a lawyer is more interested in form than in substance, it is that he has lost. I didn't know you were so mad about statistics, so technocratic, which surprises me about you and your group. Not a word, for example, about urban renewal, housing or the National Agency for Urban Renewal – the ANRU – which Mr Pupponi defended. It is quite surprising: your intervention was very dehumanized, hardly political. You have delivered a lesson of formal things, but nothing on the bottom. Finally, I am pleased to be in part in disagreement with you: to hear you, in the end, diesel and fine particles, is not so serious. The speech has changed since I sat on those benches myself and heard the members of the government you supported when you were rapporteur general. If Mrs Royal and perhaps even Mr Fabius, where he is now, read the comments of the New Left Group on the harshness of ecological taxation, they will see that things have changed in the Socialist Party in a few years. It's really amazing! We will probably have an opportunity to go back to this misunderstanding. And then, Mr. Carrez, I thought of you because, you know, I really appreciate you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u153	No good points, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u154	I don't distribute good or bad points, but I happen to like you very much. Last night, late, I did what I allow myself little: watch television. Last night, I said, very late in the night, I saw an excellent documentary by La Chaîne parlementaire in which you spoke abundantly of your frustrations when you were chairman of the Committee on Finance, but especially as rapporteur-general under the chairmanships of Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy. You probably remember this documentary in which you said...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u155	About the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u156	Exactly! You said it was terrible to have dropped the prey for the shadow, not to have been brave...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u157	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u158	... not to have transformed the economy, not to have lowered the tax on companies and to have had presidents of the Republic – Jacques Chirac, and especially Nicolas Sarkozy – who made mistakes, especially with the tax shield. "What a naivety! "You said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u160	"The day when the right will return," continued you – it was obviously before the last elections (Sorry) – "we will have to show great courage."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u161	You have good sources of inspiration!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u162	Go to the replay: it's quite amazing. [[Rites and applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM and UAI groups]] Tonight, I thought that I was going to see you today, that you were going to make measured, balanced comments and that, without drawing your hat – I do not expect so much from you – you were going to salute our courage. But I understood that this documentary was actually a rebroadcast, Mr. Carrez. We are now after the election and I have another Gilles Carrez in front of me. No doubt it is the difference between when we are in charge and when we are not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u163	That reminds me of the mayor of Tourcoing and his buralists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u164	Suffer that you can be answered, otherwise it does not have much interest. I listened to you with great pleasure, but I see you're doing name dropping. I would like to invite you back to Tourcoing. The city of which I was the mayor and of which I am the elected one does not have the same sociology as your constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u165	The problem is, we have common memories!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u166	[[Smile. –Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] [[Smile]] I will invite you again as soon as you wish and you will have the opportunity to see that even the Lille Right, for whom I have a great deal of respect, is asking for my candidacy in Lille. It's in The Voice of the North on December 17. This proves that the Wauquiezian feeling is not unanimous.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u167	The main asset of Tourcoing is the Wauquiez shipyards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u168	Mr. Carrez, I listened to you without interrupting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u169	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u170	It is true that the sociology of our respective communes is not the same – I am ready to make comparative politics. In my municipality, a quarter of the inhabitants are affected by the RSA, more than 20% are unemployed and 90% of the taxpayers – compared to 80% for the French as a whole – will no longer pay the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u171	France is not just Lyon and Tourcoing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u172	But it is you, Mr Carrez, who have quoted my commune nine times in the gallery: allow me to make the comparison with Le Perreux! While I was mayor, I did not blame the father for the reform of the professional tax – that is, you – for the loss of endowments for a very industrial city, because this reform was courageous.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u173	The Wauquiez shipyards are still here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u174	They're in Neuville-en-Ferrain and I don't want to drop the name for those who make yachts and who bear the name of the current president of the Republicans, since you're the one who quotes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u175	He's watching you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u176	The parallel I'm making is not this one. In my municipality, people live in an ANRU neighbourhood – the budget I'm presenting doubles the appropriations for urban renewal, but you didn't say a word about it – 70% live below the poverty line. We have accepted a number of amendments, notably by Mr Pupponi, in favour of urban renewal. A municipality in the agglomeration of Tourcoing has lost almost EUR 1 million a year due to the policy of a government that you supported and the previous government. For my part, I present the first budget whose allocations will not be reduced and which will allow even an increase in revenue, in particular through the allocation of urban solidarity. My commune is part of a region whose populations are the first to suffer from cancer, especially lung cancer, linked to tobacco, but also to the consumption of sweet drinks and fine particles. In my commune, people will benefit from the action of the Government: the purchasing power of employees will increase. If you had been responsible, Mr. Carrez, honesty would have been to say that you would have increased VAT, which would have affected all French people, including those who are experiencing the most difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u177	What about foreign-made products?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u178	You should have also said that you would not have reformed overtime, since you supported a candidate and a project for the general elections that did not want it, while the defiance of overtime will, I think, benefit the employees and workers of my commune. In addition, you would have supported a budget that would reduce the allocation to local authorities by $20 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The name dropping you gave me to put me in a temporary difficulty, Mr Carrez, refers me to the sweet night I spent listening to you. I regret the time when Gilles Carrez had the spirit of responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u179	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Finance Bill for 2018 in the text voted by the National Assembly in new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u180	I put to the vote the whole of the finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u181	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u183	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on the programming of public finances for the years 2018 to 2022 (No.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u184	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u185	If I may, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I will only say a few words to start our discussion. [[Rires on the benches of the REM group]] I note that a new motion of rejection in advance will be defended and that I will have the pleasure of hearing Mr Mélenchon – not that I was getting tired of your speeches, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the La France insoumée group, because they were all interesting, but it is true that sometimes different artists make covers that brighten their ears and listens to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u186	It also stimulates intelligence, sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u187	In addition, Mr.President Mélenchon, I always listen with great interest to your analyses and I am sensitive to your sense of verb. Since we will have the pleasure of hearing you, as well as a number of other interventions, including that of Mr.Coquerel, who is going to repeat today – repetition sets the concept – we will hear our differences again. We will also have an opportunity earlier to discuss the PLFR. The trajectory of public finances is ambitious. It is important to stress that the Government has not made a choice of accounting. There are now many lawyers, statisticians and accountants, but there is little momentum. However, everyone knows that trust is not only the result of numbers and texts: it is the result of actions and the match between the words spoken in election campaigns and the acts and measures taken. One can mention INSEE and diverge as to possible interpretations – in this regard, Mr Griveaux never questioned our official institute. You will admit that there is a difference between behavioural taxation, depending on the choices of consumers – I am thinking of tobacco consumption or the use of diesel – and the taxes linked to wages: what one suffers and what one chooses is not the same: this idea is as old as stoicism. [[Smile]] We can also mention INSEE completely. At the beginning of the budget debate, growth forecast was 1.7%; in the middle, each considered it to be 1.8%; At the end, it stood at 1.9%. It is to regret not to continue the discussion, which would undoubtedly have allowed us to look at the future with even more tranquillity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u189	Maybe that's because trust is recovering; Perhaps it is because, during the seven months in which the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority have had the opportunity to speak, the measures we take, the actions we take, the words we issue give confidence to our foreign partners, French companies and economic actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u190	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u191	Let me remind you that 0.2 percentage points of GDP is almost 4.5 billion. This improvement in growth is certainly forecast for the moment – but, as Confucius would say, it is by definition very difficult to predict the future – but the INSEE tells us that, no matter what, we will have reached a growth of 1.7%. Not only is this sincere about the budget and the fiscal trajectory that we are presenting, but it strengthens the balance of public policy that we are leading and, above all, the most beautiful of the ratings that is: that of the economic actors, who finally have confidence in our country, in its ability to transform, and that of the French, who see the future differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u193	I do not know if the French consider today that what we are doing is very good. I don't trust polls, good or bad. As President Chirac said, in political life, we must know how to take back the lows and despise the highs. We must therefore be careful to look at all these studies. I know, like my old political camp – but it's also true in the new world – that the winner of today's polls is not the winner of the polls the next day.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u194	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u195	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It's absolutely obvious. It would be pretentious to say that the Government had succeeded. The French, in the second round of the presidential election, gave Mrs Le Pen 11 million votes – which I regret the absence of again, for several months, during our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u196	I don't regret it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u197	It is not very serious in itself, but it is a bit annoying for the democratic vitality that I find in the television debates alone, to debate the budgetary issues, the one that was present in the second round of the presidential election. This is all the more true since the Government is listening, attentive to the exchange of arguments – in particular your servant, who loves parliamentary debate. It seems to me, therefore, that when 11 million votes are cast on Mrs Le Pen in the second round and the abstention is as great, it cannot be said that in seven months we have repaired the country, that is obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u198	Maybe we could come back to the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u199	While the citizens we meet in Tourcoing, Perreux and elsewhere are still concerned about the future, there are extremely important questions, a great deal of poverty, a fear of globalisation and European integration, the Government gives them at least the satisfaction to listen to them and to implement the programme for which the parliamentary majority has been elected. None of those who spoke in this rostrum – which I respect – accused us of lying, of not having implemented the presidential programme on which the parliamentary majority was elected. The very deep separation between the political elites and the people we have known can be explained by the fact that people were often elected on one program and applied another. As for us, we have included in this public finance programming bill the full electoral promises we made. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM and UAI groups]] The increase in purchasing power – extremely large – is achieved through the abolition of the housing tax, the abolition of certain contributions, the increase for the most vulnerable of the minimum old age and the allowance for adults with disabilities. If the Prime Minister still entrusts me with this task, I will be happy to defend before you, next year, in particular, the restoration of overtime for the employees and workers of our country, which is on the trajectory of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u200	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u201	Mr President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the final reading of the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022. This bill symbolizes the framework of our fiscal and fiscal policy and, therefore, our economic policy for the quinquennium. We are choosing a simultaneous reduction in taxation towards businesses and households and a reduction in public expenditure. This trajectory will allow us both to meet our European commitments and to strengthen the recovery in growth, which INSEE expects to accelerate with an annual growth rate of 1.9% in 2017. Clearly, this is a responsible trajectory of public finances, which combines a return to balance of accounts and an incentive to economic activity. In this text, we have also defined the framework for contractual relations between the State and the main local and regional authorities. The initial arrangements have changed significantly, in the light of our discussions and the discussions between the Government and the elected associations. Finally, the objective of developing the real operating expenditure of local and regional authorities is preserved, with an annual growth rate of 1.2%. However, this rate can be adjusted according to several criteria: demographics, population poverty and previous community efforts to control operating expenses. Given their particular dynamics and nature, the social expenditure of the departments is now subject to specific treatment in the light of these objectives. The new rules governing the debt of local and regional authorities have been substantially relaxed, since they will apply only in very limited cases. The financial recovery mechanism for communities that would not meet their objectives has been limited, in new reading in the National Assembly, to 2% of the actual operating revenues of the community concerned. Finally, the text that we are going to adopt now provides for a bonus mechanism for municipalities and public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – signatories of a contract that respects the objectives of evolution of operating expenditure. This bonus will take the form of an increase in the grant rate of the local investment support endowment, the DSIL. These few examples, I sincerely believe, once again illustrate the progress made in the parliamentary debate on the autumn financial texts. We now have a credible, structured and robust public finance roadmap for the quinquennium. After 13.30 hours of debate and the consideration of 250 amendments, 80 of which have been adopted, I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just done in the context of the finance bill for 2018, to adopt this text for final reading, in the version resulting from our work on a new reading, as amended by the drafting amendment proposed by the Government and adopted in the Finance Committee. [[Smile]] I present you with the remaining two thirty minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u202	Finally, a little generosity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u203	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u204	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the arguments that you have already heard and which lead us to criticize the options that underpin and organise your budget. Since we are looking at a trajectory, I propose to reflect on the issue by taking another angle of attack. I agree with you at least on one point, minister: to predict is difficult, and it requires effort. The document you are presenting sets out an accounting path, which meets the requirements formulated by the Brussels Commission. In view of Germany's domination of economic policy over the rest of Europe, it has only one obsession: debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u205	This is the obsession of all states!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u206	This obsession is linked to Germany's obsession to maintain price stability, so as not to ruin the rent, on the one hand, and the obsession of the German right-wing government to have a strong euro, so as to obtain more easily the goods needed by the annuitants, on the other. The European Commission is therefore pursuing an intractable policy to facilitate supply policy, which means reducing wage costs and externalising environmental and social costs, which are now borne by society, so that they are no longer included in the public accounts. This is its general trajectory. In this perspective, debt serves as a crippling ray. [["Yes! » on some benches of the REM group]] If we want to look closely, for 15 years now that these policies have been implemented, they have failed. And they have failed from the point of view of their own goals – not just from our point of view. I am not talking about everything that should have been done and that has not been done. I only note that things have been imposed on all the countries of Europe to reduce the debt and that it has exploded everywhere. It exploded at home, as elsewhere, but we French would be wrong to be prostrated in guilt. I do not agree with those who say that France has lived beyond its means. That's not true. France had to face costs that were transferred to it, and if the French debt made this leap, it was first of all because Germany once decided to give 1 mark from the West for 1 mark from the East. From that day on, interest rates exploded and we, French, for ten years, paid for the consequences of this monetary unification, on which no one asked us for our opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u207	What about the Maastricht Treaty?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u208	It was already a policy aimed at protecting the rent. The first rise in debt took place at that time. Second, things got worse because of excessive rates, and then the 2008 crisis. But I'm coming back to my demonstration. If our enemy is debt, then we are in a state of maximum alert on the entire planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u209	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u210	I won't blame you for not planning it, minister, because I recognize that you can't predict anything about it. There is a major risk of a financial debt explosion, which encompasses the entire world economy at this time. This diagnosis is not personal to me and it has already been formulated for a while. There are structural reasons for this, and the financialization of the economy is the first of the things that should be blocked if we are really anxious to have a real productive economy. But you do not do it and, worse, you amplify the means to fuel this financial bubble, for example by removing the tax on movable assets. Under these circumstances, you can be said to have made a contribution to the increase in the debt. I have brought a text that I would like to read to you, which has not been written by a thinker or economist of my political family – so you cannot blame me for being in a vacuum. The text in question appeared in Les Échos, a newspaper that is not particularly favourable to me, and it deals with this issue of global debt. The statements reported were those of a Governor of the Bank of France, who also had no reputation for being a leftist. "The economic policies of the G7 countries lead us straight to a crisis in the international financial system. These policies are irresponsible, whether in the monetary, macroeconomic or climate and defence fields." And again: "The sorcerer apprentices have built a model of growth based on debt that leads us straight to the next financial crash. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u211	Who exactly is the author of this text, Mr. Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u212	This crash is imminent, if we compare the level of the stock market bubble to what it was in 2008, and especially if we take into account the total amount of global debt, especially that of private debt, which is much more dangerous than public debt. Indeed, public debt is guaranteed by States, while private debt is not guaranteed per person. Therefore, the best way to deal with the default of the debt is first to deal with the default of the private debt. For this, there is only one method. Oh no, forgive me: there are many, and it's history that tells us. The first is to pay. But this is no longer possible, because the level of debt is such that it cannot be paid, under constant economic conditions. The second solution is rough, but well known: it is war. We break everything and we rebuild. This has happened several times in our history, with the two world wars. The third option is inflation. The fourth is the defect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u213	We didn't plan the second option!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u214	I know you haven't planned it, but unfortunately, for many reasons, Mr Trump is more important than Mr Darmanin in world events...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u215	[[Smile]] And you regret it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u216	...and even Mr. Mélenchon. Well, yes, I regret it, because I prefer one Frenchman to any other. Since you are giving me the opportunity to address this issue, I would like to consider the role of the arms economy and the war economy in the functioning of the United States of America and in the dynamics of its particular economy. We understand better, then, that Mr Trump may not be just the unresponsible or the demented one believes. He is a man who, with a spirit of method, is re-establishing the conditions of a confrontation, because it is in this way that the North American economy is now turning: it is based on the economy of armaments. All Liberal presidents have reintroduced weapons programmes. During the war in Afghanistan, for example, 85 per cent of the money that the United States spilled there returned directly to their coffers, because it was American companies that supplied the weapons. But I don't want to get too far from my lead.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u217	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u218	We know what will hit us, and all this contributes to the debt economy. You may not care that everyone is in danger of being ruined, but it matters to us. How, then, can we cope with this unpayable debt? With regard to that of the Member States, I repeat to this rostrum a proposal which I have already made: a debt conference must be held in Europe. We prefer that the debt moratorium be discussed with the partners and organised technically, with the help of the European Central Bank, rather than allowing it to degenerate, either in the absence of one of the Member States, or in an aggravated competition between the peoples, in particular on their social conditions, which produces the explosion of absurd, blind and hateful nationalisms, like those that we see unleashed today throughout Eastern Europe. The second solution, of course, is to relaunch, both socially and ecologically.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u219	To aggravate the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u220	When the word "relaunch" is pronounced, we are always answered by the word "debt", and it is always the same cycle. We are told that there will be no stimulus to avoid debt burdens and, instead, budget cuts will be made. But the budget that you are presenting to us for the coming years is accumulating the budget cuts, almost 100 billion euros. These 100 billion, it is already the investments that have missed during the quinquennium of François Hollande.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u221	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u222	As far as social recovery is concerned, I will give only one example, even if, alas, I would have so much to give. If only we cared about the human, we'd be better! I will take an example on which we could all agree, since we are constantly proclaiming it in our speeches – I mean equality between men and women. If equal pay were to be established, we would have EUR 33 billion in additional revenue for the State; we would have €6 billion in additional savings and €22 billion in increased consumption. These figures have been drawn up by bodies whose jurisdiction is contested, which is quite normal, since we have the right to challenge everything – what counts, at the end, is what reason is capable of proving. With regard to ecological recovery, I understand, Mr Darmanin, that you cannot predict typhoons and storms. However, you can predict that extreme weather events, which we know will not fail to happen, will have an impact on the economy. It would therefore be better to take the measures in time, i.e. to launch the energy transition that our economy needs. We must also have a deeper reflection, which can be put in words, but also in figures. I am sure, Mr Darmanin, that you would not be opposed to all these stimulus projects if you were not told that you were going to dig up the debt. This is the vicious circle in which we are trapped. We need a recovery if we are to avoid the default of private debt and public debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u223	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u224	The revival of activity, if it is based on something other than the idea of growth for growth, if it has ecological content, then it is a benefit that runs over the whole of society: it is new techniques that one imagines, new means that one invents and it is, above all, a contribution to the universal history of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u225	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u226	Mr Minister, in the road map you are proposing to us, there is no consideration of climate risks, there is no provision for the closure of nuclear power plants, let alone for the ecological transition, which I agree would require enormous budgetary efforts. In our "The Common Future" program, we planned 100 billion investments for this ecological transition – that is to say, we are lagging behind. But it was never just the 100 billion investment that was lost during François Hollande's presidency. But the productive capacities of our country must not be weakened. And the first of its productive capacities is what is in the head of its youth, of all those who go to university and obtain diplomas, thus improving the level of qualification of the country. I'm sorry to tell you, there's a connection with the restrictions that we're putting in place after we've carried out an irresponsible policy of numerus clausus – but you're not indebted to the latter, minister, I admit that it started earlier. If we've had these terrifying re-entrys, with the drawing of lots, it's that many things have happened before and that some have wanted to. What will you get upstream? Of course, young people who will contract student debts. Forward, more debt! We may be surprised to see the global financial bubble burst because of student debt in the United States of America. According to the predictions of some economists, this is one of the most likely causes of a possible collapse of the global financial system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u227	What are your references?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u228	[[Smile]] As long as his work is acceptable here, the OECD – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development –, a Bolshevik body well known to all of you, recommends that we make social recovery and not simply rely on growth for growth, that is, on the blind mechanism of supply policy. Be more attentive to what you are told about demand policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u229	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u230	Do not believe that the political economy was born twenty years ago, with the absurd policies that were then put in place. The pace of capitalism's crises accelerated quite dramatically from the time it was decided, in 1971, to finance the world economy by allowing the United States of America to print as many notes and issue as many dollars as it wanted. It can be seen that since 1972, fourteen crises have occurred in forty years, compared to twelve in a century in the previous capitalist model. Under these conditions, the revival through social and ecological growth has economic virtues; These are not just negligible human costs, at the margin of additions. I conclude by quoting the OECD, which is not commonplace for a man like me: "Growth-only policies, based on the idea that the latter will automatically benefit all segments of the population, could actually compromise long-term growth as inequality increases. On the other hand, measures that contribute to limiting or, ideally, reversing the increase in long-term inequalities would not only favour the establishment of less unjust societies, but also richer ones. In other words, wealth deposits are not found in the budget cuts but in the enrichment of the brave people who earn their living by working,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u231	That's what we favor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u232	... and it is normal for them to share the wealth that they produce themselves, not by tax but by the distribution of the value of wages, and by the bonus that is given to those who imagine...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u233	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u234	... and put in place ways to break the stalemate of civilization in which we find ourselves. For, knowing you, Minister, I know that you are aware that we are in a civilizational impasse. The current model condemns us all to death and condemns to death the particular form of society in which we live. Whatever the qualities of managers and accountants, at a particular place or at a particular moment in history, they cannot, through this type of effort, go beyond the limits set by a system. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, Minister, it is not possible to predict as long as it is believed that the future is what will happen. But the philosopher Gaston Bachelard teaches us that the future is not what will happen but what we will do. It is possible to do well, minister: one more effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u235	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u236	Mr President Mélenchon, you have the merit, which everyone recognizes, of bringing the debate to a political level, beyond accounting or statistical considerations, and this is indeed the subject of the discussions that we are conducting here. Let me first point out, in your remarks and those of your political party, a kind of attraction, quite terrible, for darkness. Listening to you, there will be absolute tragedies; As soon as a crisis is over, we will necessarily have another one. Mr Coquerel has repeated to us several times: "there is the bubble", "there is the crisis", "there is the debt"... I'm not saying you want the crisis, but you have some kind of negative vision of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u237	We'll see...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u238	[[Smile]] [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] If Bachelard is right, because he thinks something negative is going to happen, it's going to happen, as my grandmother used to say. A little positive waves from time to time would be welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u239	It'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u240	A second thing strikes me: there is a form of conspiracy theory...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u241	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u242	But that's interesting! Moreover, when I speak of conspiracy theory, it does not mean that conspiracy does not exist, but simply that you make it a theory. Mr President Mélenchon, you have devoted at least two or three minutes of your speech to a very interesting demonstration, according to which, if I have understood correctly, in order to revive the American economy, which is experiencing serious difficulties, the current President of the United States and all the Americans exercising responsibilities – since, sociologically, they are all of the same kind – must take into account the very strong underlying that is armament policy, and that they therefore promote the arms race, even if they promote war – perhaps it is true, but I do not believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u243	My demonstration was quite banal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u244	I am not saying that it was extremely original, but this point has the merit of distinguishing us. On the one hand, you are quite strongly attracted to the black hole – I'm not saying you want it to appear, but you see it – and I imagine that, facing a black match in the middle of a hundred white matches, you tend to raise the presence of the black match. On the other hand, you constantly echo theories of conspiracy. [[Smile]] On the other hand, you yourself have invoked the theory of runoff – you have even used the word, which is, if I may, quite interesting from a psychoanalytic point of view. But the complete revival in the name of run-off theory, that is to say, the policy of only practicing Keynesian revival – although, I suppose, the revival that you are advocating differs from the one that Keynes, a liberal economist, imagined – has already been tried in large part and, obviously, has led to a failure every time, except at very specific moments in history when the economy was relatively closed. I agree that supply policy is not the alpha and omega of any public policy. The "at the same time" has been mocked a lot; Allow me to use the phrase "at once" to illustrate this budget, since the Government is pursuing both a policy of recovery and a policy of supply. Under the stimulus policy, we are giving back purchasing power to our fellow citizens – which we are sometimes accused of – including by removing the housing tax. However, this will amount to EUR 10 billion over three years for taxpayers, who are likely to consume, since the measure will affect the most modest citizens. In addition, social spending, which is so-called inappropriately "window spending", is dynamic. Some regret it, especially the Senate majority, who blames me for spending too much, especially too much on social spending. You're saying that pay is what makes good people better able to live. We are acting in this direction, certainly not by changing the distribution between labour and capital, as you would like, but by removing taxes and contributions. In terms of supply policy, we are freeing capital and fighting against the spirit of rent, as has already been mentioned. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I am sure that I will not be able to convince you, Mr President Mélenchon, but, since I respect you, I wanted to show you that, if we have not adopted the economic line proposed by La France insoumée, the budget we are presenting is not, however, a budget of the offer or, in itself, a liberal budget, in the sense that the liberals – in the economic sense of the word – understand it; It is a pragmatic budget which, in our view, is inspired by the best of supply policy and the best of recovery policy. This very important feature differentiates our policy from the rather ideological public policies that have been carried out so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u245	In the explanations of vote, Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas spoke for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u246	I agree with the minister: Mr Mélenchon, only negative words in your speech! "Major risk", "alert", "irresponsible policy", "financial crash", "war", "confrontation", "percussion", "degenerate"... Stop! It's a pessimistic vision, but without echo, I'm sorry to tell you. For my part, I will use other words, make other phrases, with optimism, thinking about the human and without blindness. We are here to say loud and clear that we support this budget unconditionally. We defended him for more than 321 hours in committee and sitting. We have amended, amended and improved it. We will continue to defend him tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and we will monitor his execution, so that the commitments made, in accordance with the programme of the President of the Republic, are respected. Why? Because this budget allows, among other things, to support the French who work, to fight unemployment effectively and to succeed in the transformation of public policies, especially through investment, in order to improve the lives of our fellow citizens. These are the ambitions of this budget, presented today for the last time. We will reject your motion because how do you want us to give up this budget, that we called the "purchasing power budget" very early, and that we defended up to our territories, in public meetings, in our permanences and in markets? It was designed so that every Frenchman and every Frenchman will know our commitments and that our citizens will regain confidence in their elected officials. Would you like us to reject all of this? Criticism is easy, action more complicated; postures and cartoons are easy, bolder. We will keep our certainties, because we consider you, displeased, only from diverse backgrounds and are strong from our different professional and life experiences, we represent renewal. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For my part, after these two months devoted to examining the budget, I have a certainty that I have the courage to go to the ideal and to understand the real.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u247	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u248	[[Smile on the benches of the FI group]] On behalf of my comrades, I thank you for your answer, Minister, and for the respect you have shown by noting that there is a debate. I would like to recall that this is not entirely new, since it began in the penultimate century, when capitalism became the dominant mode of production. Since then, there has been debate to try to understand why capitalism is agitated by crises with destructive effects. I mean, it's a pink, kind and cheerful destruction, but it has resulted in several periods of mass unemployment and two world wars. Apart from that, everything went well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u249	Come on, that's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u250	It is therefore normal that we try to decrypt the system effects that overhang us all, whether we are on the right or on the left, and that we try to find solutions. You're giving an answer; We're bringing another one. [[Rires on the benches of the REM group]] When I speak of "maximum alert state" about global debt, I'm sorry to say that I didn't find that expression in the report of the political office of I don't know which organization, but in the newspaper LesÉchos; So the argument was produced by someone who's not on my side. That is why I would like to say, Mrs Verdier-Jouclas, that it is worth thinking about it, rather than wilting the other by saying that it deals with problems that may arise. My dear colleague, if ever, in a few weeks, this bubble bursts – because everyone says it will burst – will I come back and say that you have been hallucinated by an enthusiastic vision of the future? No! I fully recognize your right to be enthusiastic. I, too, am enthusiastic: one day or another, our ideas will come to the Government, and I am enthusiastic about what this will produce. On the other hand, what is happening today displeases me and I try to understand it. That's my position, no more, no less. Of course, I understand that there will be no ecological crisis; 3.5 degree warming will not take place; the sixth extinction of the species will not take place; The United States of America is overflowing with weapons, but it is only a matter of looking at it, not using it; and so on. I'm sorry to tell you, this is angelism! You have to look at the difficulties in the face and try to treat them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u251	That's exactly what we're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u252	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] To be optimistic is precisely to believe that we can deal with them and that we are not dealing with system effects that overshadow us to the point that there is only blindness left to contemplate the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u253	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u254	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to complain that you do not have an opposition which makes you alternative proposals. From this point of view, I shall begin by answering briefly, Mr Minister, even if you were speaking to the chairman of my group. Apart from dictators and leaders of totalitarian regimes, in the degree of danger, there are no worse leaders who blind themselves to reality, for they deprive us precisely of what is necessary to change it. Your reaction made me think a little bit of that of all those liberal economists who did not see the 2008 speculative crisis coming but then explained to us why it had to happen. To understand what is happening to our planet, we must be aware that the growing gap between the financial economy and the real economy is not just words. This financial economy, this financial capitalism, this financialization of the economy derives its strength from the exploitation of all the producers of wealth, from what we call the real economy. The day when the gap is too large, inevitably, this bubble explodes. That is what happened in 2008, and that is what will happen again, in the near future, to our country as well as to all the world's people. I regret that, and I hope that the time when we meet to talk about it will ring as late as possible, Mr Darmanin. You used a maritime metaphor earlier; It's an area that I love too. On this last point of order, I would therefore like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a look at other horizons: those that we will open when we rule the country, as soon as possible. We have the weakness to think that opposing is also an alternative proposal to your policy. That is why we wanted to present a counter-budget during the debate on the 2018 Finance Bill and the 2018 to 2022 Public Finance Programming Bill. Of course, in order to prepare it, we do not have all the administration, all the forces and capacities of the State, but in France we have many economists, senior officials, experts who, without always being able, for reasons of comprehensible discretion, to give their name, have enabled us to produce this alternative budget, which we hope to be able to present as members of the Government soon. We wanted to be careful about this budget: we have chosen the assumptions that make it as realistic as possible for you. For example, we have assumed that we will only recover half of the result of the tax evasion that our country suffers every year, which amounts to 80 billion euros; We have therefore dealt with the recovery of 40 billion, by strengthening the tax administration, by taking real measures against banks that continue to work with tax havens and by putting an end to Bercy's lockdown. We have also chosen the least advantageous of the different scenarios proposed by the International Monetary Fund: the one according to which 1 euro of public expenditure invested in the economy earns only 1.4 euro. Finally, we have played the rules of your game in that we have not taken into account, contrary to what we would do if we were to govern tomorrow, the expected positive effects of solidarity protectionism, the European debt renegotiation process and the end of the European Central Bank's independence from the states and politics. This budget is based on a tripod. First, we would have 170 billion euros in additional revenue. Secondly, we would put them at the service of the necessary public expenditure, conceived in a not very radical way, since we would in fact simply return to the situation prior to Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, before the ten years of decline in public expenditure and the revenue of the State we have just experienced. Thirdly, we aim to invest EUR 100 billion – far from the 57 billion investment you are planning – especially in the ecological transition, and we would assume the task of financing them with debt. So let's start with the presentation of the revenue. You've decided to increase the CSG. As we have said, it is an unfair tax because it is not progressive. In the tax revolution plan that we propose to implement, we will therefore make the CSG progressive. As far as income tax is concerned, you decide not to touch anything, whereas its five bands currently weigh on the middle classes. We will therefore create nine new tranches, for a system of fourteen tax brackets, as was the case until 1986. The new scale will thus be more progressive: everyone will pay the income tax, but up to its means. Our income tax reform will benefit 91% of French people who earn less than 4000 euros a month, while we will contribute the richest; It will be a national solidarity effort for the latter to deal with social and environmental emergencies. This reform will bring an additional EUR 10 billion to the State. With regard to VAT, we want to create a new rate on luxury, from 19.6% to 33%, which will bring about nearly EUR 5 billion. I would point out that such an increased rate existed until 1992. Our counter-budget also provides for a strengthening of the ISF's scale – so we are not thinking, like you, of amputating it by two thirds – as well as an enlargement of its base, to introduce more progressivity between the very rich and those who are a little less so. We also plan to cap the legacy, simply because it has been created in this country for several decades, what is to be called a real nobility of money. As you know, the share of heritage in the enrichment of the French has steadily grown: it has almost doubled in thirty years, of course to the advantage of the most wealthy of them. We also plan to eliminate much of the anti-social and anti-ecological tax niches, an objective that the National Assembly sets itself every year, but without giving itself the means to do so. We estimate that this approach will bring in EUR 49 billion. We will introduce an energy tax on aviation kerosene and on the most expensive companies for climate change and warming. As I said, we will strengthen the fight against tax fraud by making it one of our priorities, which could bring in an additional EUR 40 billion. I would like to reply to the so-called economist François Lenglet, who had the nerve to consider on France 2 that these billions had to be included in the tax increases, whereas it is simply a matter of restoring a little justice in this country. Finally, in order to achieve 170 billion euros of additional revenue, we are counting on the virtuous circle of investment in public expenditure, which should bring 55 billion euros to the economy, through contributions and taxes paid by a greater number of people and the reduction in social expenditure caused, in particular, by the reduction of unemployment. Let's go to the expense. I have just told you, the implementation of the "The Common Future" programme will generate new revenue, which will allow to balance new expenditure, excluding investment. We want a revival of economic activity not only environmentally sustainable but smart enough to reduce our ecological debt. Of course, this will not be enough to repair all the damage of the crisis and to satisfy our fundamental ambition of ending poverty, but in five years we aim to move towards a bifurcation of our production model. This requires more public resources for environmental planning. Overall, the idea is to increase in a balanced way the share of compulsory levies and public expenditure in total wealth. After five years, each year, we will receive €173 billion in additional resources, which will allow 160 billion additional expenditure, contrary to your logic of reducing spending by $80 billion. We want to restore retirement at the age of sixty. In this area, I would remind you that all the reforms, that of Nicolas Sarkozy as well as the previous ones, which tended to convince us of the need to work longer and longer in order to restart employment, have in fact caused – all the figures are very clear – an explosion of unemployment among older workers. In fact, the failure to retire at the age of sixty often obliges them, unfortunately, to continue not to work, but to contribute to Pôle emploi – we do not create employment by magic for people who are approaching retirement age. We will therefore ensure retirement at 60 years at full rate and a retirement pension necessarily higher than the SMIC, because how can we live in this country with an income lower than the SMIC, especially without prospects for the future or hope for social change when we are retired? We will also re-align all social minima so that no one is below the poverty line in a country that still remains the fifth largest economic power in the world. We will launch a zero-home plan, providing for the creation of many places in a shelter and social reintegration centre. We will fund a free public education, with a 100% organic canteen. We will recruit the necessary number of teachers and create the necessary number of places for the university rather than do the opposite, i.e. adapt the number of students to a policy of austerity in universities. We will increase hiring in the public sector. We will put in place an effective system to combat unemployment, down from the plan you plan for the first quarter, which will prove catastrophic not only for the unemployed but also for the whole economy. So I have just presented our income and expenditure, which will be balanced. We are also taking on the launch of a 100 billion investment plan, which will be financed by debt – in this regard, I will not go back to the demonstration that Jean-Luc Mélenchon has just made. This debt will, of course, be primarily at the service of the ecological transition. I would like to remind you once again that, according to the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – this public expenditure for ecological transition and social needs will actually bring money back to the economy. To understand this, it is sufficient to realize that when one invests in the building, in the social construction, that one plans to bring out of the land 1 million social housing units in five years, one gives life to the building. Of these 100 billion, we will spend 50 billion on the thermal insulation of housing and the development of renewable energy, which, whatever you say, whatever is announced, unfortunately remains, especially in the marine field, close to zero – it is even zero at the moment I am talking to you – far from what is happening in most of the countries of Northern Europe. If the Government's plan is supposed to develop renewable energy and new transport, we will implement it through this investment. We will allocate €45 billion to the social emergency. As I said, we will develop the construction of public housing, which is absolutely necessary. We will open up more places in nurseries and nursing homes. We'll renovate the prisons. It is in fact the state of its prisons and the dignity of its detainees that the state of a Republic is best judged; From this point of view, there is reason to wonder, because these conditions are very often a real shame. We do not have to fear that this public money will be invested outside our borders; Indeed, recovery through public investment is smart, as it is less intensive in imports than recovery through consumption. For example, building, one of the pillars of our investment plan, is also one of the least-used sectors of imported resources. Moreover, redistribution of wealth will reduce the weight of imports, since, as you know, the poorest consume less imported goods than the richest. Finally, through ecological planning, we will be able to create national renewable energy channels, which will also, in the medium term, make it possible to relocate the activity. This relocation will also involve the renationalization of certain sectors, such as the production of marine wind turbines. The abandonment of the austerity that we plan will finally bring us out of the economic crisis. Activity is expected to grow on average, according to our calculations, by 2.1% per year on the quinquennium compared to the current public finance programming scenario. We expect that 2 million jobs will be created in five years: half in the private sector because of the recovery; the other half because of the hiring of civil servants, by a simple return, again, to the years before Nicolas Sarkozy and his deleterious policy of abolishing the employment of one in two civil servants leaving retirement. We also want to build on the cooperative contracts that we will propose within the framework of the employer state as a last resort. The unemployment rate will thus fall to 6% by 2022. Our forecast average deficit will be 3.3% of GDP, much better than under François Hollande – at 3.6%. Better, at the end of the quinquennium, we will reach 3% of GDP and a debt within the meaning of Maastricht of 87.1%, compared with 96.3% at present. You see that we have a budget that can boost the country's economic activity and, I would say, lead the way towards ecological bifurcation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Two models are on the table: on the one hand, the runoff and free trade that you want to introduce; redistribution, relocation and public investment. You will have understood that, in the budget of the ultra-rich that you are going to vote, we hope soon to be able to substitute the budget for the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u255	In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u256	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Half an hour's prose from France, which is inconvenient in the Chamber, because of the two successive motions that we have just defended, it may be embarrassing for the majority, but it shows something, I think you will agree. First of all, Jean-Luc Mélenchon presented our diagnosis of the current model, which you are ultimately far from revolutionizing, contrary to what the title of Emmanuel Macron's book promised. By means of a skill of method, a renewal on the form that is embodied in your majority, you actually perpetuate old policies and offer them a stay. Jean-Luc Mélenchon has shown that this liberal model is a dead end. [[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] But, even more interesting, Eric Coquerel demonstrated in his intervention, impeccably,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u257	Not impeccable at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u258	...that France, whether you agree or disagree, is not simply a force of protest and opposition. We have just presented a full counter-budget,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u259	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u260	Shh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u261	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] ...which makes forty pages, which is credible,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u262	We are listening to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u263	...which, in order not to be swept away with a back of the hand, respects the rules of the game which you accommodate and which we contest. We have shown you that we can do anything else and much more exciting. Indeed, if we were to sum up what you are doing, it is a question of asking the whole country, especially the people who get up in the morning, to be enthusiastic that the only possible horizon is to save money. We have shown how expensive everything is; But we can do anything else. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our proposals are capable of responding to challenges, particularly the climate challenge, which puts us all at the foot of the wall, ladies and gentlemen. That is the reality. So you could vote on this motion for referral back to committee, to take note, at least, that we have been a force of proposal throughout this debate, and not just that opposition force to which you want to reduce us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u264	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Jerretie, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u265	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I will be short, for the sake of efficiency, and will not extend to this programming law that we have talked about so much and which we will talk about so much. Everyone has defended their freedom of expression – we have just heard it – and sometimes their freedom of writing. After talking well, it's time to get into action. So I will not take stock of what was good, what was not, what was meaningful or not, all the counter-proposals, all the novelties coming from each other. For us, the objective is clear: to avoid the adoption of a motion for referral to committee; That is why we will vote against it. The secret to moving forward is to start. We must now begin, because these first steps will take us on a journey of a thousand leagues or even further away, towards the reality of our territory and that of our actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u266	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u267	I'll be very brief. As long as the policies in power continue to focus on the particular interests of finance in the general interest, our world will be at risk, especially if we do not give the future of our planet all the attention it requires.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u268	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u269	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Making poverty cannot be a sustainable social project. I therefore associate myself with the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u270	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u271	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u272	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 sets the course for public finances. Overall, as I mentioned earlier, we believe that the course you are proposing puts us at risk, especially when we see the 2018 budget. In fact, more than a law on public finance programming, it is sort of a finance law for local authorities, because most aspects of the law concern them. For example, you propose to frame the operating costs of all local authorities, limiting their increase to 1.2 per cent in value. 360 of them will have to contract with the state, i.e. commit themselves to a level of operating expenditure in a value limited to 1.2%, knowing that there will be a small margin of manoeuvre, ranging from 0.75% – I do not know if many will solve it – to 1.65% – many will probably choose this option – for those whose population is growing or who have made efforts in the past. The most interesting thing is what will happen if the contract is not respected. The Government intends to punctuate the tax revenues of local authorities that do not comply with the contract. I would like to insist, so that everyone is well aware of this: to punctuate the tax revenues of local authorities! That would be a hell of a frame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u273	It'd be good in Marseille!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u274	If this formula has been used a little in the past, you plan to develop it on a large scale, which is a first. Mr Minister, as you mentioned earlier the need for "humanization" of financial laws, I am not sure that in terms of management and human relations with local authorities, you were very successful in doing so. Indeed, many of them have begun to vote on their budget. If I asked those of you who are part of a city council, how many voted for an operating budget of +1.2%, I'm not sure that many of you would raise your hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u275	Yes! How can I do that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u276	For my part, member of a municipal council that voted last Tuesday, I can tell you that its budget was not + 1.2% increase in operating expenses...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u277	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] It's a very serious town hall!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u278	This means that you are going to launch an extremely important movement, an unprecedented scale, of punctures of the tax revenues of local authorities. In addition, there are significant technical difficulties with this system. What is being done with the accompanying accounts, the accompanying budgets, the expenditure of the ZACs, the areas of concerted development? All these questions remain unanswered to date. So I'm afraid your device is a big gas plant. The only point on which you have somewhat loosened the stranglehold is the indebtedness of local authorities, since you have chosen, instead of a very coercive system, an incentive system, through which local authorities will still be able to maintain their freedom in this matter. Minister, you spoke to us earlier about the embodiment of public accounts, what they represent in practice. There, we are at the heart of the subject, in its very heart: men and women, local elected officials, who are fighting, are now confronted with Article 24, which is going, in a way, to corset them, without having, at this stage, their say. Finally, I would like to thank our rapporteur-general, all the departments of the Committee on Finance, particularly the administrators, who are coming to the end of this marathon of four texts – we know the physical endurance that this requires – and so, Mr Minister, that your cabinet, all the teams around you and yourself. You have a double ratio, since you are also defending your texts in the Senate, which, perhaps, repeats the pleasure of the budget discussion, but also requires a little endurance! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and NG groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote on this programming law for 2018 to 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u279	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u280	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you will obviously vote earlier on this programming bill and therefore take full responsibility for it. I would remind you that he is giving 9 billion euros to the richest, reducing public spending by 15.6 billion euros, which we will all suffer, and reforming the tax system, in particular by increasing the CSG, which will also affect the vast majority of the French. At a time when you are going to take such a responsibility, I would like the French and French to remember that. When local and regional authorities have to choose between placing them under guardianship and the effects of your downsizing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u281	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u282	... following the amputation of a particular budget, I hope that people who are not satisfied with it will remember that it is first of all to you that they will have to deal with this situation and that it is on your doorstep that we will have to knock. When patients and staff continue to suffer from the deterioration of the public hospital – which is often limited to the competence of its staff – closures, the increase in the daily fee, the incentive to stay in the hospital for less time, often at the expense of health – I hope they will remember that it is at your doorstep that they will have to knock. When the most disadvantaged of them have fewer LPAs – personalized housing assistance – when social housing itself suffers from the policy you initiate, I hope that the French will remember that it is on your doorstep that you will have to knock. When the associations and local and regional authorities tell them that they no longer have so many services to offer, because the aided employment contracts will have disappeared, I hope that the French will remember that it is first at your door that you will have to knock. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] When high school students are told that university selection no longer allows them to go to the university of their choice or even to the field of their choice, I hope they will remember at which door you will have to knock. When unemployment continues to rise because of your economic policy, I hope that the French will remember what door you will have to knock on. When you justify the reduction of social protection, by means of exemptions, I hope that the French will remember what door you will have to knock on. When this policy will cause almost all French people to suffer, I hope that they will remember that it was you who proposed the flat tax to cap the inclusion of the income of the holders of the capital, so that they will be proportionately less taxed than the middle classes, that it was you who decided to amputate the ISF by two thirds, giving at the same time 400000 euros a year to the 0.01 % of the richest French, and that it is therefore on your doorstep that we will have to knock. This budget and the policy which goes with, at the service of a growing financialisation of the economy and at the expense of the general interest, can have serious consequences. Of course, this movement does not date back to your coming to power, and its effects are harmful throughout Europe, but you have gone a long way. Even in an old republican country like ours, even 250 years after the French Revolution, national consent is not divine, it does not fall from heaven; It has been built and is based in particular on the fact – even though it is not entirely true, unfortunately, and even less and less true in practice – that the principle of equality enables national cohesion in a one and indivisible Republic to be ensured. You bear the historic heavy responsibility to undermine this national consent. Again, it will have to be remembered. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I very much hope that the appeal that we are going to bring to the Constitutional Council, together with the Members of the NG and GDR groups, in particular concerning the inseverity of this budget, particularly with regard to the flat tax and the ISF, will bear fruit, and that the most negative part of the budget can thus be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u283	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u284	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 has the merit of setting the road map for this quinquennium and the political priorities of the new majority. The roadmap is clear, but clarity does not prevent contradiction, minister. In line with your predecessors, reducing public deficits will indeed be the cornerstone of your policy for the next five years. In fact, as early as the summer, we saw, with the removal of assisted contracts and the reduction of the LPA, measures that you are getting used to since they should allow you to fall below the 3% deficit threshold as of this year. Cocorico! However, this initial indignation, however relative, towards public deficits will soon have given way to some form of complacency towards them: as soon as it is necessary, through the widening of public accounts, to repay the EUR 5 billion of the settlement of the tax dispute at 3%, to all these large companies that paid far-reaching dividends between 2012 and 2017; when it is necessary to allow the cumulation of the CICE – the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – and the reduction of social contributions in 2019, at an estimated total cost of EUR 40 billion; as soon as the one-time flat-rate levy of 30% on savings income is put in place, a tailor-made scheme for the tax optimisation of high incomes. This observation is shared by the leading economists, such as Gabriel Zucman, who estimates the cost of this flat tax at EUR 10 billion, when you estimate it at 1.9 billion. Find the mistake! This selective indignation illustrates the injustice of your budgetary guidelines, which will have adverse consequences, inversely proportional to the standard of living of our citizens. Let us share the observation that your gifts to the most affluent will translate into economic measures on all public policies that support the most fragile! This is the case with housing and employment policy, which I referred to in the preamble, with the reduction of the LPA and the abolition of aided contracts. This is also the case with regard to health and social protection, while our hospitals are already under water and the provision of care is not guaranteed throughout the country, far from it. Let's talk about territories, ladies and gentlemen! The €10 billion in savings announced in the campaign programme of the current President of the Republic quickly turned into €13 billion in mid-summer. When we know the situation of the local authorities, we understand that this announcement had the effect of a bomb, causing the legitimate sling of a large majority of local elected officials, worried about their autonomy and their ability to provide our citizens with the services they need. In the face of this mobilization, you adjusted the shot a little last week at the national conference of territories. However, the account is not there, and we regret it. Ladies and gentlemen, as with all legislative initiatives, whether or not they are of a budgetary nature, we have made proposals to try to make adjustments to what has been presented to us, even if we were challenging its nature and philosophy. We have done so as a matter of responsibility because that is how we conceive of the mandate entrusted to us by our fellow citizens. Above all, we have drawn up a counter-budget to show the French that another path existed, otherwise more ambitious, otherwise more able to meet their needs. In the face of the disagreements on the path you intend to set aside for our country for the next five years, we will vote against the public finance programming bill for 2018 to 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u286	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u287	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, growth is confidence, and programming is the key. This programming bill proposes a serious and ambitious trajectory for public finances. The reduction in compulsory levies by 1 point of GDP will restore confidence in households and enterprises. The reduction in public expenditure by 3 points of GDP will restore the confidence of our European partners. Finally, the reduction in debt by 5 points of GDP shows that we trust future generations by preserving their room for manoeuvre. Our estimates are considered sound by the High Council for Public Finance; It is a fact that is remarkable enough to be stressed again. The Government has chosen to retain the low estimates of international organizations. While INSEE has just picked up its growth forecast for 2018, we remain measured as we know that the effort remains to be continued. This effort is structural adjustment: it allows us, in the short term, to regain the confidence of our partners by leaving the excessive deficit procedure; It will enable us to achieve the MTO – the medium-term objective – of 0.4% of potential GDP. This seriousness, as one might expect, has not been accepted by the Senate. The CMP – Joint Joint Committee – failed because there were profound and unsurpassable disagreements between the two chambers. I say it and assume it in this House: going back to the original version is going back to consistency. I also want to express our understanding of parliamentary work: the programming bill cannot be a mere vector of political intentions. It is an essential element of the virtuous link between the various budget texts that our Assembly must examine every year. In this regard, I would like to highlight the inconsistency of the text that came back to us from the Senate. It cuts into the programming bill without drawing the consequences in the 2018 finance bill. Where can we find the cuts required by the worsening structural adjustment voted by the Senate? Unfortunately, the CMP has not answered this question, and I regret the attitude of our parliamentary colleagues in the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u288	It's too bad these attacks...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u289	However, the Government had engaged in a frank dialogue, in which parliamentarians of the majority had joined forces. This dialogue has resulted in adjustments, in particular with regard to article 24, which has been clarified as necessary. We are aware that this article is fiercely discussed because it has a new philosophy: we associate the 317 largest territorial authorities with the recovery of public finances; It is a matter of responsibility and, again, confidence, since the contractual route is preferred. This programming, at last, is solid. We are strengthening our ability to withstand unforeseen events such as the full and retroactive cancellation by the Constitutional Council in the fall of the 3% dividend tax. It is also strong because it is prudent: the context is uncertain and we call for measurement. It is enough that the rates go up, and it is the scale of the debt that tightens; It is enough for our exports to contract, and the external deficit is getting worse. Ladies and gentlemen, if we remain measured, the visionaries are not yet green. Because it is sound and prudent, the programming bill will be respected. The ambition, ladies and gentlemen, does not exclude lucidity. The public deficit targets set by the latest programming laws have rarely been met, with the exception of the latter, for which the objectives of the first three years of programming have been met – this had never happened before. In any event, we now have no room for manoeuvre. We are convinced that this programming bill sets the framework for the quinquennium that opened in June for sincere public finances that will support public policies that serve our citizens. The programming law is the tool for setting this framework; to act within the limits that we set ourselves. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Colleagues, Baudelaire wrote in 1860: "Because the form is binding, the idea is more intense. We believe that it is within the framework of clear, sincere and binding forecasts that we can act decisively. The programming bill meets this imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u291	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u292	[[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] Mr President, Mr Minister, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the progress of the parliamentary debates on the four financial laws examined recently: the 2018 Finance Act, the Programming Act and two Budget Collectives. We spent hundreds or even thousands of hours there. Thousands and thousands of amendments have been tabled, but I am evaluating about half a dozen of the opposition proposals – and again, minor ones – that have been adopted. Above all, compared to what I have known in the past many years, the opposition has not been able to make any inflection, any evolution on major subjects such as income tax, the single flat-rate levy or ecological taxation. Even more worrying, no significant contribution by the majority has completed or corrected the Government's texts. Ladies and gentlemen, we could have saved those two and a half months of parliamentary discussion because the four texts are, in the end, almost identical to their original versions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u293	To lie in the Chamber is not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u294	In this connection, I would like to welcome the bronze discipline that has reigned in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u295	It doesn't work out for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u296	[[Long protests on the benches of the REM group]] The oldest of you must remember the whip of the majority in the Finance Committee, which was called Dominique Lefebvre; We all found him very authoritarian when he was actually a great liberal! I would like to congratulate our excellent colleague, Amélie de Montchalin, for having been able to bully, curb, suppress and annihilate all the ambitions of his colleagues from the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u297	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u298	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u299	These are fantasies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u300	He's trying to divide us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u301	Listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u302	Some excellent amendments could have been adopted, for example those of our colleagues Jean-Paul Mattei or Sarah El Haïry on the family quotient, the PAJE – the early childhood care benefit – or the ISCED – the tax credit for the energy transition. That nenni, there was no question of adopting any of them! And then there was the avalanche of government amendments, presented at the last minute, so we cannot really discuss them. Thirty additional amendments on the end-of-year collective: I think I've never seen it before! I will take one example among many others: an amendment – of which, in this case, you were not originally, Minister –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u303	Responsible for all evils!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u304	... concerning the limitation of the "over-centralization" of Booklets A to the Caisse des dépôts. Our colleague Jacques Savatier, who chairs the savings fund committee at the Caisse des dépôts' supervisory committee, had asked in advance for this extremely important amendment to be submitted to the Finance Committee, but the Government was ingenious to table it directly during the examination of the "Economy" mission, which prevented the committee from discussing it. I must admit to you this morning a certain sadness at the fact that our Finance Committee has been reduced to a role of figuration in this new House. As far as the programming law itself is concerned, I will just say a word about section 24,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u305	You've got a minute to talk about the background!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u306	... in order not to repeat the very right things Valérie Rabault said on the bottom. Minister, I'm a little disappointed because I really believed in the contractual approach. When we saw each other this summer, together with other colleagues, we had given you our full support...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u307	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u308	...because this approach is excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u309	But you didn't have any proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u310	But it must be noted, Minister, that you have been taken over by your administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u311	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u312	An amendment by the Government to article 24 reminded me of memories of ten or fifteen years ago. All this luxury of detail on the evolution of operating expenses, the definition of self-financing margins and the capacity for deleveraging, all of this has been in the drawers of the management of the budget for decades, which has only one dream: to curb local and regional authorities! You could have imagined real contracts, which suppose trust, not technocratization or coercion! We have to trust the elected ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u313	The five minutes are over!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u314	Yes! Wide!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u315	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u316	Thank you for closing, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u317	Look, it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u318	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, allow me to thank our rapporteur-general, who has done a remarkable job, despite the difficulties and constraints, our valuable administrators of the Committee on Finance, the services of the sitting, and your cabinet, Mr Minister – you know how attached I am to some of its members. Finally, thank you, Minister, for your constant listening, if you have not been very cooperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u319	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u320	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u321	Mr Minister, the rapporteur-general, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, to supplement my remarks on the draft finance bill for 2018, I would say that, in order to highlight the table of budget texts, a framework is needed. This framework is this law on public finance programming, this PLPFP. If the acronym is not very harmonious, the text it designates aims to clarify, on the one hand, the broad macroeconomic lines and, on the other, the method of managing public finances which our majority wishes to follow. The programming law is not binding but sets the framework and directions we want for the coming years, which encourages the work of collaboration and co-construction of the budget between Parliament and the Government. It is also an opportunity, Minister, for parliamentarians that we are, to alert you about the shortcomings or weaknesses of this trajectory. The public deficit targets foresee the return of 3 % from 2017 onwards and the continuation of commitments in 2018 and 2019, despite the impact of the contentious cancellation of the 3 % tax on dividends and the additional cost of transforming the CICE into a reduction in contributions. At the end of this process, at the end of the quinquennium, we will have almost returned to balance, the commitments of serious budgetary and deleveraging of our dear country will be satisfied. However, the experience of previous public finance programming laws teaches us that keeping track of the trajectory will require serious and constant work in the control of public spending. We want to transform public action in depth: several texts, either voted or under consideration, will contribute to it. We will continue this transformation on the basis of a fair and honest diagnosis, in consultation with the stakeholders concerned, on the basis of regular, if not almost continuous, assessments. I would like to take this opportunity to commend our many colleagues who have contributed to this work, including Jean-Noël Barrot, Jean-Paul Mattei, Amélie de Montchalin and Laurent Saint-Martin, not to mention – as I say with great affection – our rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u322	Shared disorder!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u323	On the method, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement ensured that the use of tax credits, tax expenditure, and the rational use, if ever rarer, of the taxes affected were controlled. These are also topics dear to our colleagues in the IDU, Action and Independent Group, whose colleague Lise Magnier spoke during the discussion of this text. Finally, we commend the Government for its confidence in local communities through the contracting of expenditure control. We have been paying attention to this issue throughout our discussions. We stress the importance of discussion in this area: the modalities of expenditure control were discussed with local authorities at the national conference of the territories, and elaborated in this programming bill. Your goals are ours, minister, but they will be hard to achieve if you stick to them. If the implementation of the announced reforms were to be delayed or less than expected, the only alternative would be to increase taxation, which we absolutely refuse to accept. We want to work closely with you on a comprehensive reflection on the reforms to be carried out as well as on taxation. I am thinking in particular of local taxation, the principle of universality, the definition of tax justice; In short, it is a matter of simplifying French taxation. The number of taxes to be recovered is very large, and some of them have a far too high cost, such as the flour tax. We need to strengthen our action in the areas that we believe are essential: the reduction of public spending, tax reform and major sectoral reforms. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM and UAI groups]] To govern, Minister, is to foresee: your course, for the five-year period, is that of the fight against the deficit, of the seriousness of the budget and finally of the confidence regained. That's fine with us. You will always find members of the Democratic and Related Movement Group at your side to stand the bar and keep the course. We will be vigilant, as always – this is our trademark – about the fulfilment of the commitments that have been made. But know that we will always have in mind the motto of a city that is close to my heart – it is not Tourcoing, minister, but Nantes –: Favet Neptunus eunti, as they say at home. It is not Jupiter but Neptune, since this motto means: Neptune favors those who dare.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u324	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u325	We are well aware, minister, that you have had to intervene urgently to counter fiscal drift, which has had consequences for the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022. It is now essential to conduct rigorous budgetary management in order to send a strong signal to our partners, reducing our public deficit and stabilising the leftovers of the state, which too often pose acute problems at the end of the fiscal year. While the Government's path is moving in the right direction, savings still appear to be insufficient in relation to the recovery objectives of public finances. Of the 20 billion euros of initially planned spending reductions, only 10 billion would still be relevant, taking into account the increase foreseen under the 2018 Finance Act and the explosion of tax credits, which constitute expenditure within the meaning of national accounts. A EUROSTAT report – the European Commission's Directorate-General for Statistical Information – places France at the top of the ranking of the highest tax burden countries in Europe. This is a sad distinction, which speaks volumes about the state of health of our economic and social model, which is too dependent on improved growth. While growth forecasts remain optimistic, there is still a need to be cautious about real economic developments. On this point, the gap is widening between Hexagon and our European partners, who at the same time manage to curb or reduce their tax burden. Similarly, our government deficit, set at 2.8% of GDP this year, appears far from our European commitments, which further increases the debt burden and the prevalence of our debt for our public finances. Our group advocates maintaining the deficit reduction targets. We also encourage you to clarify some parts of your budgetary policy that remain rather vague. I am thinking in particular of sub-budgeting, which will have an impact at the end of the year. For example, the funds allocated to the external operations of our armies, which appear to be far from adequate in terms of pessimistic forecasts of the state of the world. Moreover, even if you are not responsible for the cost of litigation related to the 3 per cent tax on distributed dividends, they would deserve to be managed in a more visionary and rational manner. The total amount claimed in 2017 remains very imprecise, which could significantly affect the profit and loss of the year. It seems to us right to re-establish a relationship of trust and responsibility between the State and local authorities, by establishing a mechanism for controlling the debt of local authorities. The contract with them must enable the State to support local investments by the communities, which have always ensured that they control both their operating expenses, their indebtedness and the tax burden. We are, as you know, advocating a bonus-malus system to put an end to the current logic, which wants the least good managers to be the most accompanied by the state. In the same way as during the review of the 2018 Finance Act, we encourage you not to decline and implement concrete and lucid measures to maintain the objective of public finance recovery, while at the same time showing you more visionary towards future budgeting. If you do not realize the necessary savings by rationalizing current expenditure, you may have to differ from the investments that are essential, even though the State must regain its role as a balanced operator of the national territory by investing massively in the infrastructure necessary for the development of our economy. Minister, in view of your initial objective, a certain amount of chill seems to have developed. We hope that it will not be sustainable but only temporary, and that your willingness to carry out the consolidation of our public spending will not weaken. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group and on some benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thank you and join me in thanking the directors of the committee, your cabinet and you, of course, as well as our excellent rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u326	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u327	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u328	Technical amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u329	I put to the vote the whole of the bill as it follows from the text voted by the National Assembly on a new reading, as amended by the amendment just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u330	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the 2017 amending finance bill (No. 527, 535).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u331	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u332	For this third presentation of a morning budget text, a few words will suffice. Thank you and invite you to pass this amending finance bill, which includes the withholding of income tax at source.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u333	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u334	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u335	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] I will be as brief as Mr. Minister. At the end of this budgetary marathon, I thank you all. I want to tell you how pleased I was to be working with all the groups. Although our positions have sometimes been divergent, we have all worked with the same demand. I wish you great holidays at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u336	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u337	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we come to the last general discussion of the 2017 budget tunnel. On behalf of the MODEM Group, I would like to thank the well-known rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, who has done herculean work to enlighten the Committee on Finance. He voted on more than 200 articles and more than 3000 amendments, all of which were budget texts. I would also like to thank the chairman of the Finance Committee, Eric Woerth, who led the debates in committee for long hours, although he is not present in the Chamber. While ensuring the temporal control of the examination of texts, it allowed everyone to speak on the many topics under discussion. I also commend him for his pedagogic work with new entrants at the opening of this parliamentary session, in order to familiarize them with the rites of the National Assembly, with the finesse of parliamentary law, tax law and the budgetary procedure. Then I thank you, Minister, for always – or almost always – taking the time to answer our questions, in a particularly pleasant and also very educational way. Finally, I thank all our colleagues, the majority and the opposition, for the quality and the holding of our debates. We did not all agree on everything and we spent days and nights discussing it, but we have always done so cordially. I do not forget the administrators and the bailiffs, discreet but so precious for the smooth running of our work. Concerning this second PLFR for 2017, almost everything has been said. On the form, we have already mentioned the difficulties related to the limited deadline for tabling amendments and the massive arrival of last-minute government amendments. We will, of course, come back to that as part of the reform of the conditions for the examination of budgetary texts in the National Assembly. On the substance, we have already expressed our position on the major budgetary balances endorsed by this text in its re-reading. In particular, I would like to stress two provisions: the levy at source and the fight against fraud. The key measure in this text, the one that our fellow citizens will remember, is the adoption of the source levy mechanism, which will enter into force in 2019. The MODEM Group supports the majority on this point, because this reform will make the tax more legible for our citizens. However, I should like to point out that we will remain vigilant about its implementation, for the reasons that I developed on Tuesday during the re-reading. Finally, this text reinforces or reinforces the control and anti-fraud tools. If the issue is to be addressed at the international level, the simplification and alignment of our tax law is our entire responsibility, on a subject of social and tax justice. Important efforts still need to be made on this subject, but we must welcome our country's constructive attitude in this regard. Indeed, following the Panama paper scandal, nearly 1900 proceedings were initiated by all the States concerned, including more than 400 by France, which was thus the most active country in the fight against these illicit financial channels. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM and UAI groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, for all the reasons mentioned here and throughout its examination, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u338	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u339	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u340	Mr President, Mr Minister, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the second amending finance bill for 2017 deserves our full attention, as it reflects the mistakes of the past and conditions our ability to avoid the pitfalls of tomorrow. It should be read in the light of the PLF for 2018 and the PLPFP for 2018-2022, which have been developed according to a common strategy and respond to the same logic of controlling public expenditure. We would like to welcome a sincere approach by the Government in the drafting of this year-end collective. This PLFR has the merit of advancing solutions to the problems inherited from the previous quinquennium. Among the encouraging measures, we welcome the halving of the moratorium rate from 4.8 per cent to 2.4 per cent, thus adapting to the current context a rate that has remained static since 2006. This measure will significantly reduce the overall cost of the refunds expected in the dividend tax file. Similarly, we see the principle of symmetry being respected by applying the same reduction to taxpayers' interests. We also welcome the introduction in January 2019 of a residence tax of 1 to 5 per cent for unclassified accommodation of the Airbnb type. This measure, which has been the subject of near-consensus between the representatives of the various groups of the Assembly during our previous work, demonstrates a common desire to participate in the regulation of this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u342	Nevertheless, always in a logical continuity, and despite the fact that the objectives of debt reduction, the public deficit and public expenditure have been reaffirmed, we regret that the efforts made are not yet up to date. In this regard, it should be recalled that the European Commission, when publishing its opinions on the draft euro area budget plan, has expressed its doubts about the French case and is planning a significant deviation from the adjustment path required to clean up its public finances, as well as the failure to meet the debt reduction criterion in 2018. This is all the more regrettable given that the economic situation is favourable for France and should provide a window of opportunity for certain structural changes in order to redress its public finances and to satisfy the 3% threshold more fully. Unfortunately, therefore, the process of sincerity has not been carried out to its end. Two examples, on which our group has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Government, crystallize this image of incompleteness. First of all, the example of OPEX, external operations, is symptomatic of the problem of underbudgeting, which inevitably has a recurring impact at the end of the financial year. For 2017, the additional cost is estimated at €850 million. This did not lead to a sufficiently significant increase in appropriations to prevent the problem from re-emerging next year. The impact could even be worse, given the important ambitions set out in the 2017 Strategic Review of Defence and National Security. And then there is the planned exit from the excessive deficit procedure, conditional on the calculation by EUROSTAT – the Directorate-General of the European Commission responsible for statistical information – of the effects of the 3% tax invalidation, unknown which could have a major impact on the balance of the 2017 financial year. Only EUR 11 billion could thus be linked to the 2017 financial year; As a reminder, Minister, you intend to include only €5 billion in the 2017 budget. Here, therefore, is still an inconsistency. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] In conclusion, the UDI group, Agir et indépendants, wishes to draw the Government's full attention to the fact that a significant reduction in the deficit is still necessary in order to commit a lasting reduction in the ratio of public debt to GDP, free us from the burdens of the past and reassure our European partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u343	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u344	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the New Left Group wish first to raise, like other colleagues, a problem of method in the way in which we have had to debate this text. At the first reading, the Government tabled no less than forty amendments at the sitting, including thirty-five additional articles, on a text which had only thirty-seven, a doubling of the volume of the text. We regret this process. At a minimum, it would have been necessary to allow for a first debate on all these amendments in committee. However, we have heard with satisfaction your proposals this morning to improve this situation in the future and to allow for strengthened monitoring and control throughout the year. We hope that the opposition will be fully involved in this process. On the substance, for our group, this second amending finance bill for 2017 counts primarily for its section 9, on the source levy, and we tabled, at first reading and again, amendments on the particular issue of historical monuments. Indeed, it became clear that the so-called "average" scheme, which was chosen for the deductibility of the work carried out in 2018 and 2019, was particularly unfavourable to this type of building, in the absence of the possibility of spreading the land deficits over ten years. We have therefore proposed a system of spreading over the years 2019 and 2020 in order to avoid a sharp fall in works volumes in 2018 and 2019. Such a fall would have serious consequences, in a sector of activity where firms are very specialized and cannot compensate for a drop in orders by means of ancillary work activities. We regret that the Government has returned to this mechanism, even though the drafting issues had been resolved and its cost was estimated at only 8 million to 10 million euros per year in 2019 and 2020. However, we thank the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, for his listening and constructive support on this subject. As far as construction aid is concerned, we are satisfied with the implementation of the system of support for the liberation of land in a tense area, with the introduction of an exceptional reduction in real estate capital gains during the transfer for the construction of new housing, with a reduction of up to 100 % for social housing. However, we would like to draw the Government's attention to non-stressed areas, where this mechanism will not apply and where the near-deletion of the LPA – personalized housing assistance – accession, on the one hand, and the reduction in the perimeter of the Pinel and PTZ devices – zero-rate loan – on the other hand, will have disastrous consequences on access to property, especially for modest households. With regard specifically to the PTZ case, we noted with interest the honourable senators' proposal to consider the possibility of replacing it with the creation of a new low-rate loan scheme. If such a reform obviously did not have its place in this text, so late in the budget debate, it seems to us that it would be useful to have this debate when considering the future housing bill and with a view to the PLF for 2019. Again with regard to housing, we thank the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, for having heard our inquiry about the difficulties in applying the VAT rate reduced to 5.5% for the social acquisition of property in the neighborhoods covered by the ANRU – the National Agency for Urban Renewal. The mechanism adopted in article 28 bis will speed up the operations currently provided for in the pre-figuration protocols for the projects carried out under the NPNRU, the new national urban renewal programme, thereby contributing to the Government's bid shock. Finally, we would like to raise a difficulty with regard to local direct tax exemptions and social hotel residences. The Senate, by amendments by Ms.Létard and Mr.Dallier, adopted two provisions, in articles 17 ter A and 17 ter B, on social hotel residences. The purpose of these articles was to extend to these structures, on the one hand, the exemption from the property tax for 15 or 25 years on built properties, applicable to temporary or emergency accommodation structures, and, on the other hand, the exemption from the housing tax and territorial economic contribution. At another reading, our committee had chosen to delete these articles, in line with the debates we had in recent weeks on the state's non-compensation for local direct tax exemptions. Our group, however, had pointed out at the sitting that such a mechanism was necessary for the overall economy of social hotel homes, and that the articles added by the Senate should be retained. Our assembly, on the contrary, having chosen to vote for its abolition, we take advantage of this general discussion to invite the Government to reflect on how the special case of social hotel residences can be dealt with in the next PLF. More generally, we would like to see a reflection in the coming year on relations between the State and local authorities, more specifically on the question of exemptions, in a context of compensation which is now almost zero. The State can no longer take decisions of this nature by placing the burden on the communities, without the communities being able to have their say. If certain provisions of this text go in the right direction, considering the overall choices made by the Government with regard to the appropriations allocated and cancelled by this draft amending finance law for 2017 and the difficulties posed by certain measures, such as that unfavourable to historical monuments, the New Left Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u345	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u346	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall come back to two points in this PLFR. I referred earlier to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and to say again, Minister, that you take a heavy responsibility in imposing the tax at source at the end of the year. You keep telling us that you have to save money. However, this method of sampling will be expensive. As we said: at least 300 million euros for businesses and certainly more than 140 million euros for the state. It is complex, and many problems can be expected when it is put in place. It is useless, given the current quality of our tax administration and our tax system. It is dangerous for employees with regard to confidentiality. Finally, the La France insoumé group regrets, as many colleagues, I believe, that you did not take into account the alternatives proposed by the tax administration for a contemporary tax system, particularly those that came back from the Senate. That is the first, the main reason, for our opposition to this amending finance bill. The second reason I wanted to insist on is the EUR 1.5 billion put in credit to ensure the Olympic Games against any risk of cancellation, total or partial. As we have said, it is regrettable not to have at least specified that this amount could only be paid if the responsibility of the State was incurred, not that of the local organizers or the IOC – the International Olympic Committee – or even to have defined what a partial cancellation meant, since this blur opens many doors to the use of this concept by the IOC to ask us to pay. It is very little to take into account the inherent danger of the Olympic Games: since several Olympiads, none have concluded on balanced accounts, contrary to the promises made each time. In addition, to ask Parliament to vote last night after the review of the Olympic Games bill, while explaining that we are practically forced to adopt the scheme because our country is already contractually bound to the IOC, raises questions about the usefulness of the Assembly. In the end, the vote was not necessary. In many respects, we can talk about a Léonin contract, which you have forced us – or you have forced us – to adopt. These are the two points that seem to us to be the most problematic. I also wanted to thank all the administrators of the National Assembly, as well as all the staff who worked on these budget texts, for this last intervention. And then, despite the austere and uneven budget that we are going to have to endure, I still wanted, in republican spirit, to wish you good holidays at the end of the year, Minister, as well as to your cabinet, which has worked a lot, I know – it is said that the advisors of ministerial cabinets are often on the brink of exhaustion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u347	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u348	[[Smile]] I also thank all our colleagues. I do so freely, since those to whom I did not want to address my wishes are obviously absent, as at all the sittings – I mean those who sit at the top and the far right of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u349	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u350	[[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] However, next year you will find the deputies of La France insoubted, just as determined to oppose your plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u351	Could you say yes from time to time?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u352	Don't object in advance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u353	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u354	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, with this text we are completing the autumn budget marathon. If the minister of action and public accounts, like the majority, say that they are proud of the work they have done – it will most likely be worth the deliverance of a satisfaction by Brussels – it is doubtful that our citizens will share their enthusiasm tomorrow. The main purpose of this 2017 draft amending finance law is to achieve €850 million in savings, so that France can reduce its deficit to 2.9% – perhaps a little less – of GDP and exit, in the spring, from the European excessive deficit procedure. On the one hand, you offer the richest people unprecedented tax gifts and, on the other, you explain that it is necessary to reduce spending. Once and for all, you'd have to tune your violins and get out of your contradictions. You want to reduce the deficit? We can help you! You can indeed go back to the €3.2 billion reduction in wealth tax, to the €2 billion single flat-rate levy, to the €2 billion reduction in financial transaction tax and to the billion reduction in corporate tax. You can still remove the many unnecessary tax niches that weigh on the budget, up to tens of billions of euros, for familial results. You can also decide to tackle tax evasion frankly. At a time when the scandal of the massive capital flight, which has been denounced for years by NGOs, is breaking out, you are planning to have revenue down. Is it out of defeatism or out of will to cajole the annuitants? We let the French judge the voluntarism displayed by the Government. Still, other choices than the one-way austerity cure are possible. This cure, which the European Commission has imposed on us for years, goes against the needs of our fellow citizens. In addition to this new round of budget cuts, which can no longer mask the chronic under-funding of the State's missions, including the most regal ones, the flagship measure of this amending budget is the source levy. We repeat what many Members say to you, on every bench: this reform is not mature. Far from simplifying the lives of our fellow citizens, it will, in fact, make tax collection more complex. To entrust the employers with collecting the tax is as funambulesque as to entrust the agents of La Poste with the task of issuing the driver's licence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u355	[[Smile]] They're already passing the code!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u356	[[Rires sur quelquesbancs du groupe REM]] France has, fortunately, an effective tax collection system, which also provides our citizens with flexibility – monthly payments, third-party payments and modulations. You want to substitute for this construction that respects republican principles and citizens' rights a rigid machine to levy the tax, which is not without reference to the levying of the royal tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u357	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u358	It is true that we now have a President who flatters his courtiers by promising them to become heroes of a new world, a world in which annuitants and other start-ups are called upon to keep the flock of those who are nothing. The levy at source is above all – and that is why we are fighting it – the Trojan horse of a merger between income tax and the CSG, the widespread social contribution, which poses a threat to the sustainability of the financing of social security. By passing under the control of the State, the financing of social security would in fact lose what makes its originality: it rests on the solidarity between those who earn little and those who earn much, between young people and pensioners, between employers and workers. Liberals find this baroque and unworthy combination of the new world. On the contrary, we find that there is more current than ever, in a society tempted by each one for himself, the identity, community and even generational retreats. At a time when three out of four French people feel that society is ever more unequal, it is so much to open the public debate on the economic choices that have led to the catastrophic situation, especially in the United States, to which you want to lead us. We'd have to change our compass. Even the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – is now calling on Western governments to promote inclusive growth. This requires a radical revision of the patterns which lead Brussels, Bercy and the Court of Auditors to reduce national solidarity and to sacrifice the happiness of peoples to abstract accounting rules free from economic realities. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] In the meantime, of course, we will vote against this amending budget. Happy New Year's Eve to all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u359	Thank you! You too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u360	In conclusion, I would not like to conclude my remarks without associating myself with the many thanks extended to our excellent rapporteur-general... [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups as well as on a few benches of the REM group]] ...as well as the teams of our institution and yours, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u361	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u362	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u363	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be briefer than expected...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u364	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u365	...because the essential thing, since this morning, has been said and said again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u366	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u367	In the past few weeks, although some may say so, the debates, both in committee and in public, have been important both in terms of duration and content. Each intervention by the majority was clear as to the need for the proposed measures and the objectives pursued by this PLFR for 2017. But every time I have heard some of our opposition colleagues detail the ins and outs of the various objections to it, notably through motions for prior rejection or referral back to committee, I understood that we were definitely not on the same page.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u368	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u369	It is clear that we do not make the same observation and that we do not have the same ambitions for the country. With this PLFR, we are implementing the Government's public finance commitments. Maintaining our commitment to reduce the deficit to less than 3% of GDP is its foundation. The tax measures we are advocating through it, however, make it possible to simplify the action of the administration and to consolidate ongoing reforms. I'll only mention one. With Article 9, the implementation of the source levy – which I personally defended in an explanation of vote – continues a commitment of the previous government. We have maintained it – this simple fact proving well our ability to maintain a sensible measure – because the temporality of the tax is more than necessary today, given the changes in professional situations that French and French people can experience. The budget items that we defend through this PLFR are also intended to accompany the Government's action in several areas of public policy. Finally, this PLFR is complemented by performance measures. Anyway, I could go on like this for a long time, but I'm gonna stay there. The obvious thing for us, Members of the majority, is to meet. We are indeed convinced that our line will guide France on the road to success. We are aware of the work well done, in the continuity of what we believe in from the beginning and of what we have been candidates for the general elections: the change long awaited by the French and French in view of a profound transformation of our country and our territories. Elected to the riding of Jaurès, I will give you, to conclude, a sentence taken from his Speech to Youth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u370	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u371	... pronounced before high school students in Albi in 1903: "In our modern France, what is the Republic? It's a great act of trust. To establish the Republic is to proclaim that millions of men will be able to draw the common rule of their action themselves; that they will be able to reconcile freedom and law, movement and order; that they will fight each other without tearing each other apart. Yes, the Republic is "a great act of confidence" and "a great act of audacity"! More than a hundred years later, this quotation is still valid to define the Republic, let us not forget it! At the invitation of the President of the Republic, we, the deputies of the Republic on the move, had the audacity to commit, with this first budget, the immense task of building a new France, with boldness and confidence in the future. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this amending finance bill for 2017. I also conclude by thanking all the actors who have carried out these projects: ministers, administrators, deputies, with a special mention for our beloved general rapporteur, Joël Giraud,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u372	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u373	...and the whip of our group, Amélie de Montchalin, both effective and brilliant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u374	[[Smile]] That's what Jaurès says, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u375	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Thank you for this first collective experience, rich in our exchanges! I am proud, for all our fellow citizens, of having lived it with all of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u377	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u378	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of leading this final baroud of budgetary honour on behalf of my parliamentary group! Despite extremely favourable economic indicators, despite renewed growth in Europe, despite still low interest rates, despite relatively cheap oil, the ambition of this PLFR is extremely modest, while the government deficit continues to grow: 7% more than in 2016. In fact, both the High Council for Public Finance and the European Commission are harsh about the near non-existence of your structural efforts in 2017. The conditions for consideration of the text were deplorable. Remember Monday, December 4th: Thirty-nine amendments tabled at the last moment – more than the number of articles in the original bill – without a thorough prior examination, without the possibility of amendment and without the filter of the Council of State. I shall say a word, Mr Minister, about the Lorrain mining basins, which are excluded from the arrangements provided for in Article 13, reserved for your territory, Nord-Pas-de-Calais. I find this deeply unfair. [[Laugh. – Applause on several benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor for the last time to try to convince you of the dangerous nature of your reform of the levy at source. I know that I have little hope of changing your mind, but, as Cyrano de Bergerac says: "But we don't fight in the hope of success! No! No, it's much more beautiful when it's useless! » More prosaically, the minister told us that repetition fixed the notion, and he is right. Let's not set up the source sampling because it's an aberration! Let us not embark on an unnecessary, dangerous and insoluble reform whose perverse effects are for the moment delayed but whose taxpayers will inevitably end up paying the price! Let us not launch the flower with the gun, in such a reform, supposedly technical, under Bercy's sole injunction! This is a false good idea, which will have disastrous consequences for businesses and for the French. And, alas, the very marginal adjustments you are proposing are not such as to solve the problem. It is above all a profoundly useless reform, when our country needs structural and courageous reforms to accompany the recovery of its economy. It could be justified if we had problems with tax collection, but that is absolutely not the case. We have one of the best tax administrations in the world and our income tax is collected at 98.5%. Moreover, the monthly levy is already supported by almost three-quarters of French taxpayers. My group, in particular Eric Woerth, has proposed to you to make the payment of income and the payment of tax contemporaneous, without going to the levy at source. It would have been fairer and simpler. Your reform will change the relationship of the French to tax. Starting in 2019, they will no longer know the amount of tax they will pay. The tax will become painless, so easy to increase discreetly. Indeed, the direct relationship between the taxpayer and the state, at the heart of the principle of consent to tax, will disappear. However, consent to tax is one of our founding principles. It is because they can measure the level of tax that our compatriots accept or challenge it. Reform is also totally unfair to businesses. This new mission, which is imposed on them by the State, will be costly and complex for them. Its cost is estimated at EUR 400 million, but it could reach much higher amounts, exceeding EUR 1 billion each year. As you yourself know, it is SMEs and TPEs – small and medium-sized enterprises and very small enterprises – that will pay the brunt. This reform will raise issues of confidentiality and may degrade relations between employers and employees, as well as between employees themselves. Tomorrow, two employees who hold the same position and receive the same salary, will receive two pay slips with a different net salary amount. The employer, informed of the tax rate, will be able to get a good or bad idea of the couple's income, not just the remuneration of their employee. This information may therefore affect career development, promotion, transfer, promotion or remuneration. As for wage negotiations, they will naturally focus on net tax wages, which are very different from one person to another. The neutral rate, which is supposed to solve the problem, is so unfavourable to employees that it will not be. It is finally a reform of incredible complexity. The concrete problems it will generate will continue to multiply, with sometimes extremely damaging consequences. The debate in the Chamber and my colleague's amendments The Fur was able to record about fifty, but it's only the tip of the iceberg. Finally, this reform seriously undermines the "familyization" of the tax, to which my political family and I are so attached. [[Applause on several benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] I will confine myself to urging you, Minister, one last time with force to give up this vain and grievous reform. It would be a nice Christmas present. Happy Christmas parties to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u379	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u380	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u381	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very pleased to take part in these debates in various ways. In particular, I thank the team on the plateau, who accompanied the successive presidents. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1109.u383	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention. The meeting is adjourned.
