ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Michel Zumkeller and others to introduce a tax on transfers of professional athletes (No 248, 430).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u2	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u3	[[The sitting was suspended at 15.00 and resumed at 15.15 with Mr François de Rugy in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u4	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this morning's sitting, François Ruffin wore a football jersey in the gallery, which is not in line with the holding of a parliamentary debate. This incident was then the subject of a clear and explicit statement by the presiding officer, Hugues Renson. In accordance with Rule 70(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I consider that returning with the same meeting this afternoon, without taking into account the very clear remarks made by the President of the sitting this morning, is a provocation to the Assembly or its President. Under Rule 72(2), I shall therefore issue a reminder of order in respect of François Ruffin, with a record. I would point out from the outset that the honourable Member concerned will be able, if he wishes, and as is the rule, to challenge this decision before the Bureau of the Assembly, which will meet on 20 December next – he will therefore be able to consider any request in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u6	Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u7	My intervention is based on Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure. This morning, the presiding officer called me an indignant and disrespectful outfit. Mr President, I am not going to dispute the application of Rules 70 and 72 of the Rules of Procedure – perhaps we will do so at the Bureau meeting – but, in substance, I would like to say that in my view, wearing the jersey of Antoine, Franck, Olympique Eaucourtois and, potentially, thousands of Antoines, thousands of Franck and thousands of clubs across the country is not at all unworthy and disrespectful, on the contrary! I'm very proud today to wear this jersey here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u8	This isn't the place!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u9	I am very proud to bring in here, in the National Assembly, the face of Franck and the Franks, of all the people who run the small clubs. [[Protests on the benches of the UAI and LR groups]] If I wore this jersey again at the beginning of this afternoon, it was because I was given a vehement remark this morning and I was unable to explain to myself about this supposedly disrespectful and unworthy character. But I'm not trying to provoke or make a case of school, as we hear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u10	Words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u11	Having said that, Mr. Chairman, in order to calm down, I will put my sweater back on for the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u12	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u13	I would simply like to express the sentiment of many colleagues in the IDU, Action and Independent Group. The Bureau of the National Assembly decided to break with this centuries-old tradition that men's deputies should wear a tie here. I even remember a few years ago that ties were at our disposal at the entrance to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u14	It was the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u15	And the bailiffs wouldn't let us go home if we didn't. By deciding to break with this tradition, the Bureau obviously opened the door to all possible and imaginable interpretations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u16	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u17	We would like to return to this use, not because of excessive traditionalism, but in order to avoid this kind of incident. Mr Ruffin may want to come with this jersey today and come back tomorrow highlighting other people, then everyone will come in a jersey or even in shorts – why not? – since the club's one is, too, very honorable! [[Applause on the benches of the UAI and LR groups, as well as on several benches of the REM group]] To avoid this kind of situation, we could return to the custom of this house, which we can certainly judge outdated but which allowed us to work without knowing this kind of incident and reminder to order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u19	You're ridiculous! You live in another world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u20	Thank you, Mr. Lagarde. The debate you are referring to will take place in the Bureau of the National Assembly. We will now be able to move on to the agenda, to the extent that the agenda has been finalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u21	[[At 15.25, Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u22	We resume the discussion of the bill to introduce a tax on transfers of professional athletes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u23	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u24	Madam Minister for Sport, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mr rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 222 million is the amount of the transfer of one player from one major Parisian club and EUR 180 million from another. In total, the transfers of these two footballers represent three times the budget of the National Centre for Sport Development – CNDS – a budget almost halved by the Government a few weeks ago. So, when we see this gap between the situation of certain professional clubs, real financial bubbles, and that of amateur clubs, we can only be motivated, as legislator, by the desire to act for more fairness. So let's not save a debate on these issues! It would be a serious mistake to watch, beats, the inflationary bubble of transfers inflate with all the drifts that it carries: inequality in sports competition – the League 1 of football bears witness to this – and control over the sport of uncontrolled financial funds with all the inherent pressures on the values of sport. Football is not just a market: football is also a carrier of values. In my view, we should debate three issues today. The first is the situation of amateur sport in France and the difficulties it faces. The second is the exorbitant and dangerous amount of wages and transfers, which has been growing steadily since the Bosman decision in 1995. The third is the link between the two: how can we ensure the establishment of solidarity funding mechanisms for professional clubs for amateur sport? The text proposed to us only takes into account part of the problem, but it has the merit of opening the debate and, above all, I hope that it will become a springboard for more comprehensive legislative measures to regulate the amount of transfers and ensure a better redistribution to amateur sport. The purpose of this bill is to tax transfers of professional athletes up to 5% of the gross revenue generated by the transfer and to allocate revenue from the tax to the National Centre for Sport Development. This joins the spirit of mutualisation of the tax on audiovisual retransmission rights to abound, at the time, the FNDS – National Fund for the Development of Sport. We agree on the need to complement the solidarity mechanisms between professional and amateur sport, even though we regret the absence of a floor in this text and the fact that it does not differentiate from very heterogeneous financial situations in professional sport, including professional football. As has been pointed out, mutualization mechanisms already exist. The CNDS received EUR 39.3 million from the retransmission tax last year. In addition, the Fédération Française de Soccer pays a contribution of 17 million to amateur clubs, plus 15 million from the Fonds d'aide au football amateure. Internationally, FIFA has also established redistribution mechanisms since 2001. For example, a 5% tax is levied on an international transfer to be transferred to the footballer's training clubs. Finally, and as we all know, this tax will only be truly effective if it is built at European level. It's a limit, but it's not insurmountable. Indeed – as you pointed out, rapporteur – on several occasions France has acted as a forerunner...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u26	... in the field of sport regulation and these measures were subsequently disseminated internationally or at European level. We must be aware of the inherent limitation of the scope of the law, but under no circumstances should it bind our hands. We are here to extend the actions on the regulation of professional sport, which had already been supported in the 1999 law and on the financing of amateur sport. But in the same Chamber, a few weeks ago, we spoke on the budget of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. Through this reminder, I would like to reaffirm the central role of the State and local and regional authorities, which suffer from the reduction of their allocations in the financing of sport. Your majority voted on the sports budget a few weeks ago – a budget down 7% – and an unprecedented budget amputation from the CNDS. There is indeed a need for more mechanisms of redistribution between the professional and amateur worlds, but if, at the same time, the State withdraws from its mission to promote sport for all, from its responsibilities for the high level, from the construction of infrastructure in the underprivileged territories and from the impoverishment of local and regional authorities, this will not serve much. This bill does not seek to limit the amount or regulate transfers. Yet we should act much more strongly in this direction. This is the subject, I believe, of the meeting that took place on Tuesday morning between the President of the Republic and the President of FIFA so that France can defend these subjects at European level. I therefore call on the Members of the majority and all the groups to take up this issue as well and to make France's way internationally heard in order to finally restore order in the transfers. In the Bosman judgment, we must add the arrival of false financiers, sometimes even states. This is why more transparency is needed, through strict application of UEFA's financial fair play in French professional clubs, and greater clarity in the remuneration of agents. To achieve these objectives, the GDR Group proposes amendments to regulate the amount of transfers of professional athletes and to reaffirm some ethical principles. Of course, because of the magnitude of the task, more work will have to be done to identify all the measures to be taken to put an end to the drifts. But as soon as we examine and, I hope, adopt this text, we will be able to limit more strictly the remuneration of sportsmen or clubs, who are involved in the inflation of transfers. We propose to limit the remuneration of the agent to 6% of the total amount of the transfer against 10% currently. This amendment is the result of the recommendations of the information report of the National Assembly of July 2013 on financial fair play in French football. This provision is also supported by the Fédération française de football, which is aware of the danger of this endless increase in transfers. In addition, we propose to limit the amount of the transfer to 70% of the athlete's total salary on his or her entire contract. This is based on one of the recommendations of the European Commission study published in February 2013. In the long run, the risk exists of closed leagues, on the US model, and the link between the richest clubs and the rest of the sports world would in that case be definitively broken. We do not want this model. Beyond this financial aspect, there are also ethical issues. Transparency in transfers needs to be significantly improved, and control mechanisms need to be strengthened. One could imagine, for example, that all transfers go through an account of the professional league: all transfer payments involving at least one French club could thus be subject to control. Without 100 per cent transparency, such a measure would still significantly improve it. Finally, we propose to include in the sports code the prohibition of entering into employment contracts in France with a professional athlete whose rights are held by a third company, in particular by pension funds. This system, in fact, is unacceptable and violates ethical rules. The international union of professional footballers denounces the possession of economic rights by a third party as a new form of slavery. If this practice is prohibited in France, it is necessary to go further and to include in the sports code the prohibition, for professional clubs, of entering into contracts with athletes subject to these financial montages. In conclusion, this text raises an important problem and, although the proposed answer is incomplete and probably too imprecise to effectively address the funding needs of amateur sport, on the one hand, and the control of the financial masses of professional sport, on the other, it has the merit of putting these questions on the table. It is therefore up to us to seize these challenges, in particular that of the financing of amateur sport by the State and through the pooling of resources in the national and international sports movement, and above all to carry out genuine public sports policies, ambitious and open to all. I was looking forward to examining the amendments that we have tabled, and at the end of this examination I was considering voting on your bill, rapporteur. I therefore deeply regret that a motion of prior rejection has been tabled, because it will prevent us from reaching the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u28	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today aims at introducing a 5% tax on transfers of professional athletes beyond an amount which, as it stands, is not yet defined. As a foreword, I would like to recall a figure that was compiled in 2016 by FIFA TMS's report on international transfers. Only 10.7 per cent of transfers to football are made by way of compensation. Paid transfers are therefore only the top of the pyramid. While the objective pursued by this bill is entirely commendable in itself – we have all been questioned by the amounts of the transfers that took place this summer, especially that of Neymar – it remains that, after this first impression, the doubts as to the effectiveness of the text before us are undeniable. I shall confine myself in this speech to purely legal aspects. Your proposal for a law, my colleague, first comes up against European legislation and, more specifically, European competition law. Indeed, it is European competition law that governs the regulatory mechanisms in sport. In this respect, the European Court of Justice, in the 1995 Bosman judgment, explicitly affirmed the principle that Community law applies to sport, since it constitutes an economic activity within the meaning of Article 2 of the Treaty of Rome, which became the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is the case when the athlete is considered a professional, whether he is an employed person or a service provider. Consequently, the breach of equality proposed by the text not only between countries, but also between clubs, amounts to distorting competition within the European Union itself and, in particular, at the expense of France. In addition, as a result of the development of commercial activities related to sport, the Community bodies have integrated sport within their sphere of competence. A professional athlete can therefore be regarded as a worker, within the meaning of European Union law. Therefore, it seems obvious that federal regulations, particularly those relating to the transfer of sportsmen and women, must respect the principles derived from European Union law. Although your intention is commendable, the creation of a tax that would only apply in France would force foreign buyers, while limiting the circulation of national players. It would constitute a competitive distortion against Community space law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u30	On a football pitch, you have to run, not walk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u31	In this bill to introduce a tax on transfers of professional athletes – an idea that is not new, since it was already on Parliament's agenda in 2007 and 2009 – a difference is made between small and large transfers, the tax exempting the former and affecting the latter. This difference in treatment could constitute a breach of equal treatment and would therefore be unconstitutional. While the principle of equality does not preclude the legislator from regulating different situations in a different way, or from derogating from equality for reasons of general interest, the fact remains that the legislator must base its assessment on objective and rational criteria. As things stand, a tax on professional transfers is therefore inoperative, as it denies the internationalized and globalized nature of football – and other sports. For a contribution to be operational, it must be applied globally and internationally. For it to be effective, it must be the subject of concerted action at European level, as the asymmetry of the rules could have a detrimental impact on French professional sport. That is what you yourself acknowledged, Mr rapporteur, when you said in the press that such a tax could only be really operational at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u32	That's not exactly what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u33	To conclude, and to move away from the purely legal issues raised by this bill, I mean that the generous benevolence of this bill does not provide a lasting response to the much broader issue of funding professional and amateur sport in our country. Indeed, French professional sport cannot be reduced to a few clubs with substantial financial resources, especially in football. The weak diversification of club revenues, undercapitalisation and management difficulties, as well as comparison with other European clubs, are all aspects that clearly reflect the difficulties facing French professional sport. The means offered to our clubs to attract and retain their best players are insufficient and only a harmonisation of tax rules at European level could strengthen the attractiveness of our country. In view of this, it seems to me wiser to review the problem at the bottom. Do we not have to rethink, for example, the system of subsidies, which are awarded randomly by local authorities or federations to amateur clubs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u34	That's for sure! The more it's okay, the less it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u35	...rethinking our model of financing sport?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u36	You have a good bill at your disposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] However, the Minister for Sport made extremely strong proposals this morning to put this debate within a European framework that is innovative and efficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u38	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u39	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk mainly about football, because it is the sport that I know best, and because it has become, by its omnipresence, a real phenomenon of society, as evidenced by the strong audiences, the passion it arouses and the financial movements it causes. Football is multifaceted and ubiquitous. Millions of children, men and women practice it freely and, in organized clubs, more than 2 million licensees are registered with the Fédération française de football. The latter can show impressive figures: 2165000 licensees, 400,000 volunteers, 15,000 clubs, including 40 professionals, 7,000 employees and more than 836000 parties organized each year. Amateur football, which penetrates to the smallest municipalities, plays a considerable role not only as a social link, as a sports training, but also as a learning of life in society. They are thousands of trainers who strive, under often very difficult conditions, to convey sports behaviour and to promote the idea of loyalty, honest commitment and respect for others. Amateur football must be taken into account for what it really represents in sport, of course, but also in social and societal terms. All this contrasts with the difficult reality often experienced by clubs: difficulty in day-to-day management, cash flow, infrastructure. Many small teams are familiar with daily management methods that are in fact DIY. Next to this reality, there is professional football, which makes us change our universe. We enter into a complex world of training, leadership, travel, infrastructure, agents, transfers, media. A world where the unit of measure is one million euros. It is hierarchical, at the French, European and global levels, and a few large institutions dominate a majority of second- and third-tier companies, which try to survive the sporting, and especially financial, competition, which dictates the daily game. This logic, linked to the disproportion of the forces involved, this permanent competition, the passion and madness that governs the competition, the obligation to result have led to an overbidding that has reached truly disturbing levels. This logic has been further reinforced by the emergence of investors from countries that are not always recommendable. I would like to ask you a question, without giving any lessons: is it normal for a player, whatever his talent, to have a market value four times higher than that of a airline plane? Interesting question! The sums put in motion by professional football are objectively a problem. In Europe, the ten most indebted clubs have imbalances ranging from €200 million to €550 million for a total of €2.854 billion – as far as we can tell, because a certain blur surrounds this universe, despite the introduction of fair financial play. Of course, this data must be put into perspective in the light of the market valuation of these clubs, which reaches astronomical levels, in tens of billions of euros. French football is also marked, despite the control of the National Directorate of Management Control – DNCG – by an indisputable shift towards cumulative debt, which will become problematic in the long run. He has already forced a number of clubs to demotion. The most painful of them was, for me, the Sporting Club of Bastia, which, despite forty-three years of high level, lost five divisions at once. I also take advantage of my presence in this gallery to wink at all my friends and to tell them: Camperemu! The situation of this club, which is by far the most popular in Corsica, illustrates the difficulty of surviving in a weak demographic and entrepreneurial fabric. Everyone knows the economic logic of this system: the public interest leads to the advertising investment of companies, which in turn leads to television coverage, the main source of revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u40	There were other problems in Bastia's club!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u41	So, how can a politician look at this universe? Clubs, like players and all agents, pay taxes, which they complain about. The market for supply and demand is free and calling for moralization is an incantation. At most we can wish for two things. On the one hand, and this is of interest to the whole of economic life, equal tax rules should be created at European level, which would give a real chance to all clubs. On the other hand, greater transfers between professional and amateur clubs should be ensured. These transfers are, for the most part, limited to training grants. We are clearly in favour of the establishment of mechanisms that can create more solidarity at all levels: between professional clubs first, which will strengthen the competitiveness of the least fortunate; Between professional and amateur clubs, then. We must not forget, in fact, that all these units, beyond the immense differences of fortune, popularity and status, form, in fine, one world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u42	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u43	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the general discussion on the text of our colleague Michel Zumkeller following the lighting and the debates we had in committee last week. If these exchanges did not lead to the vote on this bill to introduce a tax on sports transfers, they have contributed – as you have noted, Mr. Rapporteur – to a debate on how national representation can, and should, deal with this issue. Indeed, there is a consensus that the solidarity between professional and amateur sport would deserve more support, but that, obviously, the scope chosen in this bill does not correspond to this imperative. I am sure that we will all be keen to include this issue on our agenda in the coming months. Laura Flessel, our Minister of Sport, has also announced a "Sport and Society" law. I believe that it would be very beneficial to include these issues, and it goes without saying that the MODEM Group will take an active part in the drafting of this text. Your work, Mr rapporteur, was welcomed by all of us during the examination of the text in committee. Your report, which is of high quality, has the merit of pointing to an important element, the lack of solidarity and justice, principles which should nevertheless found any society. We know our fellow citizens who are very interested in these subjects, and each of us may have felt hit by the senseless amount that some sports transfers of professional players have achieved. It is indeed difficult to justify the national effort to reduce deficits when, at the same time, a club spends hundreds of millions of euros to buy a player. As talented as this player is, it is not illegitimate to find this disproportionate – not to say, sometimes, indecent. In the explanatory memorandum, rapporteur, you clearly describe the stakes and the balance of your text. We can only appreciate your defense of amateur clubs and join you on this point. Their situation, we are fully aware, deserves our full attention. They face many difficulties, mainly financial ones, which we are not unaware of. The policy of this majority and that government is in favour of associations and is therefore clearly in that direction. Of course, we are open to any proposal that may improve it further and, if the proposal you make in this bill does not seem appropriate to us, it is not on the grounds that it would be irrelevant, but because of the conditions of its application. Moreover, it is certain that we need to reintroduce flexibility in the functioning of associations and amateur clubs, because they are being imposed standards and upgrades by national federations, which do not always meet their long-term needs in the long term, especially since this entails costs that clubs can no longer bear easily. The discussions in the committee shed light on this point. Perhaps it is time to review the contracts or obligations that link national professional federations to amateur clubs, so that the former better play their role in training and training executives, in short, of everything that makes associations live on the ground, not just football.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u44	Not just the football ones, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u45	We are quite prepared to do that. However, it seems to us that the issue must be addressed from the point of view of efficiency and without compromising the interests of our clubs in an international, at least European, context. Several speakers noted, here and in committee, the decrease in allocations to the National Centre for the Development of Sport, but did not recall that it was offset by a redeployment of appropriations to other missions under the Ministry of Sport. The Department's budget is increasing significantly, particularly for programs that affect access to sport for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u47	I come to the content of the bill. We have already had the opportunity to tell you, Mr rapporteur, that we do not approve of the conditions for implementing the scheme, which we believe is calling into question the financial balance of our professional clubs. It seems to us to be risky to introduce this contribution or tax only in the French context. We have said this: our professional clubs, in the world of football as elsewhere, are often less strong than their European neighbours, and we fear that such a measure will further damage their competitiveness. The legislator is well aware of this, since our assembly recently passed a bill, the law of 1 March 2017, which aims in particular to improve the competitiveness of clubs. We do not think the time is right for this kind of action. We have heard the argument, also supported by our colleagues in La France, that the French initiative would have a training effect in Europe. We agree with this proposal if action is not taken unilaterally. The weight of French football and sports clubs is not enough at European level for this to have a significant effect on our neighbours. However, we would like to join you in saying that France must be at the forefront of ethical, ethical and good practice issues, in order to encourage our European partners to invest in this area. On the other hand, from a financial point of view alone, if we look at the world of football, the state derives much of its pin from the game through the multiple taxes and taxes paid by clubs and players. The state collects enough money from taxes on transfers of players paid by clubs. Like other colleagues, I have referred to the corresponding figures in committee. In the most emblematic case of recent years, the transfer of Neymar, the gain is estimated at €237 million over five years. We repeat: be vigilant and pay attention to the negative message that such a contribution would send to the football world. As we seek to attract the talents of the world, scientific, intellectual and sporting, such a measure may seem counterproductive. We are, of course, prepared to examine how the State could, through various tax and distribution mechanisms, better support amateur clubs, but this measure risks, on the contrary, depriving the State of very important resources. Especially since such mechanisms already exist in this direction, in particular those established by FIFA. I am thinking in particular of the training allowance, which allows the clubs of origin to receive a remuneration in case of international transfer of their former players. It is on this path that we should move forward, in order to improve the partnership between professional and amateur sport. This kind of solidarity approach must be included within the same business line. Again, this provision only works because it is implemented at the appropriate level, i.e. at an international level, otherwise it would be inoperative. We ask that this be the same for the proposal we are discussing, especially since it would have a neutral effect on clubs, since they would all be housed in the same brand. The attractiveness of the championship is such that its competitiveness would not be affected by a 5% tax. Finally, as I pointed out in committee, we are acting as if only football could be involved. I would draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that this bill would affect all national sports federations. Let us not pretend that only football occupied our minds: we must also consider the destabilization that such a measure would entail for all federations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u48	For the rugby!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u49	Not just for rugby. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement pays full attention to the fate of amateur clubs, and associates itself with the rapporteur. We wish to examine in the future the initiatives that we could take in France, but also and above all at European level, in order to ensure greater solidarity between the two levels of sport, the professional and the amateur. In view of the considerations I have just mentioned, we believe that this law would not be effective or even counterproductive. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore not support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u50	Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u51	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are once again addressing the subject of sport in this House. Indeed, for those who still doubt it, it is both a subject and an issue of our society. I welcome the commitment of the state and yours, Minister, to the work that has been done for the past six months. This action is fully within the framework of the proposals of the President of the Republic during the electoral campaign. In addition to high-level sport, it is more necessary than ever for our social cohesion to promote sport for all. In this sense, the Olympic Games of 2024 will be an opportunity for our French athletes to shine on the international stage, but also to shine in the eyes of our children, by instilling them, if not a new passion, at least a certain interest in still little known disciplines.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u52	We hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u53	The State is committed to sport and supports its actors. I would like to recall here the strength and vitality of our associations and, contrary to what some like to say, the Government and the majority do not abandon associations. We know what we owe them, and that is why our goal is to support local associations as well as to develop civic and citizen engagement. To meet this objective, funding for associative life will be stable in 2018 and resources from the Associative Life Development Fund will increase by €25 million. Our sport also lives throughout the territory thanks to its federations. Count on the State to support them: it does so with an additional €3 million for multi-annual agreements of objectives, the provision of agents of the Ministry of Sports and many other actions. It is in partnership with the federations that we can promote sports practice for everyone – women, seniors, people with disabilities – and everywhere in France – in the ultramarine territories, in the neighbourhoods of the city's politics, in rural areas. But of course, as we know, the state cannot and must not be the only actor. I do not agree with this cartoon in the explanatory memorandum: "professional federations that mix up very large sums of money". Sport in France is not that football and, moreover, the economic situation of French football is not the best – we will be able to return to it. What I remember is the importance of professional sport for sport in general. Let's take the example of football: for the 2012-2013 season, professional football has undertaken more than 950 operations to enhance amateur football. Some 3,500 clubs are involved, and 700 operations involve professional players. The same professional football directly finances amateur football to the tune of 100 million euros per year, whether through the broadcasting fee tax or the Amateur Football Fund – and again, my speaking time does not allow me to be exhaustive. It is proposed that a new solidarity mechanism be set up when there are already many. Far from my idea of saying that they are all perfect, but let's start by improving existing tools before accumulating others, more importantly a 5% tax. This is what we are doing, for example, with the National Centre for Sport Development. Created more than ten years ago, it contributes to the development of sports practice; He is the main public actor in sport for all. As part of the 2018 Finance Bill, we wanted to make it even more efficient. Why should the CNDS take national-scale missions into account? This is not normal, and the State has assumed its responsibilities by taking over these elements in its charge, so that the institution can refocus on its proximity actions. Beyond this fiscal redefinition, we want to undertake a profound reform of sports governance with the aim of making public spending more effective, as our fellow citizens demand. I can count on your determination, minister. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity mechanisms already exist, and this tax is, as it stands, irrelevant. Mr rapporteur, let me tell you that your proposal, however acceptable, is sinning on many points. First, to the extent that the tax would be applied from a certain amount, it would, in fact, create a boon effect, with transfers for amounts below that threshold. Moreover, you do not fix this amount: you leave it to the discretion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u54	No, not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u55	Another uncertainty remains. To paraphrase, you call for "a reduction in payroll taxes," which would offset the tax. Your confidence is very nice but nothing, as it is, would come to answer your call. Finally, you refer to "the astronomical amounts of the transfer allowances of certain professional athletes". However, to deal with the case of a few players, you propose a 5% tax that would affect all sports clubs. Mr rapporteur, the diagnosis you are making is not wrong, but you are not providing the right solution. The issue will need to be dealt with more broadly, by raising the debate and extending it to the organisation of amateur sport funding, to the links between national federations and clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I conclude my speech by quoting once again your report: "The rapporteur is well aware that this problem will be solved at European level". I fully agree with you. This tax will certainly harm the competitiveness of French clubs, which have already been damaged. Therefore, if France is to be on the initiative, it cannot and must not move forward alone, without its European partners, let alone without involving the peoples. This process of co-construction and consultation is at the heart of our project, and that is the meaning of our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u58	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u59	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the transfer of Neymar from FC Barcelona to Paris-Saint-Germain for EUR 222 million last summer has made a lot of talk and a lot of ink. If we took 1% of that amount and added a few small grants, we could build a gymnasium in one of our small communes. The money of football, because it is hyperpopular and hypermediatic activity – as is sometimes the case with politics – makes a lot of fantasies. The previous example suggests that there would be a great deal of money from a puncture on all transfers. But would such a puncture be fair? In what way would it be carried out? Is professional sport today free of taxes, taxes and contributions? How would we react if we did the same for other economic activities? What is the role of each of the actors mentioned by the previous speakers, namely the state, communities, federations, leagues and clubs, amateurs and professionals? Who has increased their solidarity support in recent years? And who's disengaged? Of course, Mr rapporteur, if we look closely at the situation of our sports associations and their difficulties, we start from an implacable point of view, which I share. First, administrative and regulatory constraints have increased, and volunteering is now completely different: it is a more fluctuating, more timely, less constant commitment. Secondly, the economic crisis has had an impact on corporate donations and patronage and, consequently, on the finances of small associations. Third, in recent years, communities have had to reduce their support and support under pressure from lower allocations and lower budgets. Sports practice is evolving: it is becoming individualized, which is also a problem for our associations. But overall, the sport economy is growing, and we must welcome it. Professional sport is also, and so much the better, because it creates jobs, wealth and activity. This also leads to retransmissions and media coverage, which push young people into sport or to test new activities, in which they can train and develop. When one thing works, one should not always think about how to tax it. We have four main reservations about this text. Firstly, voluntary sport is certainly an activity of public interest, which must be supported, for reasons of social link, health, education, but professional sport is, whether you like it or not, a private economic activity in its own right – the legal form of clubs shows this: it is public limited companies or sports companies – with its constraints of competitiveness in an international market. One can fantasize about a Neymar tax but, in reality, if one adds such a tax to the already existing taxes, such transfers will not even take place in France, and there will be no more investors to finance them anyway. Ultimately, there will be no additional recipes for amateur sport. We must not be schizophrenic: we cannot want our clubs to succeed on the continental stage and to bleed them with extra balls, even though they are already taxed far more than those of neighbouring countries. And it should not be forgotten that professional sport participates in several virtuous circles: an economic virtuous circle, since, as was said earlier, it stimulates a whole range of ancillary activities in the private and public sectors; a virtuous sports circle, as it makes disciplines, sports practice and clubs attractive to our youth. Second, it is foreseen that this tax will apply at the French-French level, which is absolutely not the relevant scale today for such a tax, because professional clubs operate in globalised markets: they must not be marginalized. Indeed, this poses the problem of the extraterritoriality of our law. We cannot impose this tax on foreign clubs, which sell us their players. We cannot imagine the French state collecting this tax from Spanish, German, Italian or English clubs. Secondly, FIFA has put in place regulations allowing compensation to be paid to the training clubs in case of transfers. It is accepted and praised for several reasons: it is fair – 5% of transactions between two countries are returned to the players' training clubs, including when they are amateurs; it is global, i.e. it applies worldwide; Finally, it is effective because it allows the development of training clubs which, in turn, form talents for the professional world. How can we accept that, tomorrow, it is to the professional football clubs to finance new boulodromes or tennis courts, that the state no longer finances or almost any more? Third, solidarity mechanisms already exist between professional clubs and amateur sport. Unlike state funding, they are developing. First of all, there are financial flows from professional clubs to amateur clubs. I am thinking of the so-called Buffet tax on audiovisual retransmissions of national sporting events, which is paid by the professional leagues to the CNDS, and which is now the CNDS' first source of funding, amounting to EUR 45 million. Similarly, the professional leagues fund the national federations, which in turn have to give the manna back to committees, districts and clubs. Finally, financial solidarity within clubs exists between sports companies and their associations. We must also mention the charitable foundations of most of our professional clubs, which, in the field of football, still represent 72 million euros. Finally, I would add that professional clubs work as trainers for our young people, through the support associations they fund – I mentioned it at the moment – and their vocational training centres, which welcome young people and prepare them for an elite career. Finally, a fourth reservation, such a tax only targets football because, in reality, it is the only sport where there are transfer payments on multi-year contracts – with, perhaps, rugby, but in a very marginal way. In addition, a threshold determining the transactions concerned will have to be established by decree and the conditions for the application of the law will have to be specified. The latter will only concern football anyway. But in the near future, the other disciplines are developing rapidly, this tax will disrupt the growth and international reach of French clubs, be it handball, basketball, or rugby. However, these so-called minor disciplines affect many medium-sized cities in our ridings, where these clubs are animating our territories and making them proud. In the end, we come back to our initial question: is it for professional clubs to make up for the shortcomings in the financing of associations, particularly those of the State? Today it makes questionable choices, which penalize our associations and sport for all. As I recall, the budget of the CNDS has been cut by EUR 64 million. The abolition of the parliamentary reserve and its half amputation represent a reduction of 25 million euros for our associations. The brutal shutdown of aided contracts affected a number of our clubs. Finally, the resources of the local authorities have declined, while they are the first financiers of sports equipment and the first "subsidisers" of our clubs. Such a tax would destroy the competitiveness of our professional sport without, in the end, bringing any additional manna to amateur sport. Everyone would lose. On the other hand, in order for the Paris 2024 Olympic Games to be the celebration of sport for all and not just the celebration of elite sport or of the Paris region, we still expect, Madam Minister, a percentage of the revenues of this exceptional event to contribute to the financing of sports equipment in all territories, or to the financing of projects of amateur sports associations. As you will understand, the Republican Group is not in favour of this text, but it is ready to work in a trans-partisan way on mechanisms that will strengthen the development of amateur sports practices and the development of our clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u61	[[At 16.00, Mr. Sacha Houlié replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u62	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while the purpose of the bill is commendable, it is nevertheless subject to a number of legal, economic and technical limitations. This first impetus gives way to the principle of reality. Sport now accounts for 1.8% of gross domestic product, more than 35 billion turnover, and just over 290,000 direct jobs. Half of this turnover is financed by local authorities on a two-thirds basis; Then come the State, the regions and the departments. Let us not forget also to value volunteering: in the Messina agglomeration, I have counted about 1.6 million hours of volunteering each year; If they were valued, they would amount to more than EUR 16 million. In addition, 80 per cent of sports infrastructure is owned by these communities, and these include both city stadiums, league 1 stadiums or arenas. Secondly, in the professional field, football and rugby must be distinguished, which have had an economic model based, for the last fifteen years in particular, on television broadcasting rights, which account for one third of their budget. There is also a need to distinguish between basketball, handball and volleyball, the budgets of which depend largely on public funding – the latter, in the volleyball sector, account for 20 to 80% of the budget – and, finally, amateur clubs, which depend almost exclusively on public funding. This is clearly the heterogeneity of the French sport financing model, which has great fragility at all levels. Of course, there is real distrust of professional sport, especially because of the very large amounts of players' transfers. In addition, I share the observation of the difficulties encountered by our amateur clubs – they have been recalled. However, this bill does not provide satisfactory answers to the problems mentioned above. There is no economic, legal and technical impact assessment: the proposed law is therefore very fragile and its provisions may, in particular, not be in conformity with Community law. In this respect, I welcome the Minister's willingness to try to change things at European level. In addition, support mechanisms for professional and amateur sport already exist, even if they are insufficient; I am thinking in particular of the Buffet tax. The sports movement has also organised a certain solidarity between professional and amateur sport, notably through the payment of compensation to the training clubs during international transfers of players. For example, the training centre at FC Metz has invested close to 700000 euros in a training centre in Dakar and Metz over the last three or four years. The children of Dakar and Metz follow a remarkable and exemplary course of educational and sporting success. I would add that French professional football directly finances amateur football through the €15 million Fonds d'aide au football amateur – FAFA. Thus, the city of Metz has been able to take advantage of these funds, over the last ten years, to invest massively in our equipment. This was also the case for rugby fields, after the 2007 World Cup. I think it is better to strengthen these devices. We all know here that professional sport is a major social phenomenon bringing together a large number of spectators and viewers. However, it must be noted that today, professional sport and French clubs are in great difficulty. In this regard, we must be aware that French professional sport cannot be reduced to a few clubs with substantial financial resources, particularly in football. Beyond the unfavourable overall economic context, this worrying situation of French clubs stems mainly from structural factors: their revenues are not sufficiently diversified. That is why a number of proposals were made at the presentation of the report on professional sport in April 2016 to Thierry Braillard, Secretary of State for Sport. Similarly, the Bailly law aimed at preserving the ethics of sport, strengthening the regulation and transparency of professional sport and improving the competitiveness of clubs, adopted at the beginning of the year, has made significant progress, particularly with regard to the loan guarantee granted by public actors. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] One of the objectives is to enable professional clubs to acquire, in the short and medium term, the stages that will become fully their working tool and enable them to generate new revenue. Thus, they will no longer depend on public funding. This will make it possible to finance amateur clubs in particular. This is a paradigm shift that I think is really interesting to pursue for French sport, for our fellow citizens and for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u64	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the debate which is beginning today once again illustrates, alas, what the French have rejected in the last elections. Thus, rather than using all their parliamentary niches wisely, our oppositions sometimes prefer to present us with texts that are not intended to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, but only intended to do the buzz.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u66	It's our freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u67	This is not going to happen to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u68	You've got your finger on your pants!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u69	I would like to take this as evidence of the disconcerting video where two of our colleagues are playing ball in the gardens of the National Assembly to present a measure which, at best, will be described as demagogic. There is no need to show a jersey to demonstrate your fitness for sport. This is not my idea of the mission that our fellow citizens have entrusted to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u70	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Politics is not a game, and buzz must not replace the bottom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u72	We were talking about the bottom before you got here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u73	It is all the more regrettable that this text is the first of the legislature on the subject of sport, which deserves better. This bill, let us say frankly, is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u74	Stop giving lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u75	If the idea can be attractive at first glance, we can see very quickly that it goes too far from a fiscal point of view, at the risk of damaging the competitiveness of our clubs, and not far enough geographically, at the risk of isolating France in a very open market. It is clear that this type of taxation can only be considered at a European or even global level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u76	Intergalactic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u77	Intersideral!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u78	Nevertheless, I feel very well, my dear colleague, that in proposing this text, you are expressing a real passion and a genuine commitment to sport. That is why I invite you to work with us on the ambitious project that the majority will implement, during this quinquennium, alongside Laura Flessel, our minister. Increase the sport practice of French and French by ten points;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u79	A real budget for sport?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u80	... to improve the chain from school sport to club sport, to university sport, to increase the number of graduates; to wonder about the explosion of disintermediated practices; be aware that in our country women and citizens of modest conditions practise sport significantly less than men belonging to socially favoured categories, and work to reduce this unacceptable inequality; Reshaping the organisation and governance of sport to make it even more transparent and efficient; adapt the services to accompany and support volunteers, who are the cornerstones of our clubs;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u81	It's not the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u82	... to improve the reconversion of high-level athletes, who deserve to be accompanied beyond their sporting career, for whom they have sacrificed everything, and who can bring to our society so much thanks to the skills they have acquired;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u83	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u84	It is your intervention, which is not high level!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u85	... develop healthy sport for the benefit of 11 million French people with long-term affection, for whom supervised physical practice can significantly improve well-being; continue to set up the sports sector contract to amplify the current momentum to develop the sport economy, the jobs it generates, the innovation it brings, and its export weight.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u86	Free the energies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u87	This is a rich, useful and exciting horizon, towards which we will be able to become even more tender thanks to the allocation to France of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. These subjects deserve thorough work and, I would say, co-construction between the Government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u88	Do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u89	We initiated it by giving us the means of our ambitions as early as 2018, with an increase in sports credits of almost 8% as reflected in the financial laws passed in recent weeks. I started my remarks with a sort of requisitorial...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u90	Very moderate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u91	[[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the UAI group]] ...against this text: I conclude it with a hand outstretched. Don't try to go against each other, the rich against the humblest, but let's bring together all the athletes around these common values of respect for others and self and self and the overcoming of self, cardinal values that allow emancipation through sport. That is the heart of the subject, that is the heart of the Republic's project of progress, in which sport has its full place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u92	It's swollen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why, if we do not vote on this text, we call on all of our colleagues on all benches to join us to work for the service of sport for all who is our ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u94	The general discussion is closed. We come to the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u95	Mr President, I wish to be able to reply to the speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u96	Mr Michel Zumkeller, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u97	Answering the speakers is a common practice, Mr. Chairman. It was my understanding that the last colleague who spoke did not even give us the right to choose the texts we wanted to present in our niche. If we no longer have the right to respond to the speakers in the general debate, our situation will become complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u98	You have the floor, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u99	I will not go back to the last speech: it was so brilliant that I would not be up to it. You have noticed that I am responsible for everything or almost all of the diseases, in particular. I'm sorry, it's my fault, my very great fault. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI, GDR and FI groups]] More seriously, I want to thank the various speakers who have all taken respectful positions. I would like once again to welcome the IDU, Action and Independent Group, which has chosen to present this bill among many others. Yes, that's our choice. As many speakers pointed out, this topic deserved to be raised. We're at least proud of having done it. I would also like to greet François Ruffin, with his particular style, Marie-George Buffet and all those who support this text, because they think that, without being the ideal solution, he helps to find a way. Finally, I welcome all those who have opposed it, but who have tried to develop different points of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u100	Except for the last one!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u101	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI, GDR and FI groups]] While all recognized that the topic deserved to be raised, three important objections were made to the text. The first concerns Europe. The solution can only be European: we agree. However, someone must start if we do not want to kill Europe by allowing it to be discredited every day. That's why we say: we're going to start. Mrs Buffet has done so with regard to doping and broadcasting rights, and it has worked! Of course, football was mainly targeted, but it's always sport! And why are we limiting ourselves to Europe? Football is not European, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u102	It's global!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u103	What will it be for the European Commission to make a decision? What will Chinese, Indians, Americans or South Americans do? If we have to take everyone's advice, we'll never get there! So, I repeat, someone has to start, and I want it to be...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u104	Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u105	... France, which may be the light on the subject, as I have already pointed out. If we don't, we'll never make it. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI, GDR and FI groups]] The second objection is financial risk. I hope that we can look at Mrs Buffet's very interesting amendment on the subject. In your opinion, the provision will cost football clubs too much, even though the text provides for a 5% tax on each transfer. If you adopt Mrs Buffet's amendment to limit the remuneration of sports agents to 6% of the amount of transfer payments, well, the 5% will cost less than the 10% currently paid to sports agents. Clubs would be able to give 10% to sports agents but unable to give 5% to amateur sport! That is the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u107	It's up to you to make your choice, but the two objections seem to me to fall off the subject. Moreover, if, unfortunately, this bill was not passed, which I do not believe for a moment, I would like to recall the hearings that we have conducted. It is true that representatives of professional sports, especially football, have stressed that they give a lot to sports federations: the figure of 73 million euros per year has been advanced. Well, I ask you again, along with my colleagues who participate in the general meetings: where does the money go? Why do small clubs not have the 2000 or 3000 euros needed to pay the educator's salary if the figure of 73 million is correct? [[Applause on the benches of the UAI and FI groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the UAI and FI groups]] Madam Minister, if this text is not adopted, at least get on with it: check it out! Is this money not used to pay for sumptuous seats, so that at the end of the day volunteers do not receive anything? Isn't that the real subject? That's what I wanted to say. Clearly, we share the view that sport and amateur sport must be supported. Well, do it! Thanks to this text, you will be able to do so in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u108	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République en route a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u109	You have to be in shape to defend such a motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u110	Thank you for your encouragement. Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the IUD Group, Action and Independents for the subject of its bill. I welcome the rapporteur, who has enabled us to take up the dossier in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, to take part in the debate and to make progress with the amendments which we have examined and rejected in committee and which are again presented in open session. We also conducted joint hearings with Mr Zumkeller. This bill, which is simple, is built around a single article. It aims to introduce a 5% tax beyond a certain amount not yet defined on transfers of professional athletes. The proceeds of this tax, introduced from 1 August 2018, would be returned to the CNDS, which would then distribute it to amateur sports clubs. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on one point: we were all surprised at the exorbitant amounts of the last summer's football transactions. We must therefore think of the appropriate framework for this regulation, look for the right formula to regulate these transfers in practice and, above all, implement a mechanism that does not penalise our country, while allowing the necessary solidarity with the amateur sport that we all want. I will not insist on competition problems under European law: my colleagues from the Republic of the People's Republic have expressed themselves perfectly on the subject. But let us be specific, because this bill could, as it stands, have more disadvantages than advantages. Indeed – this is the first point and the main argument that irrigates my whole point – if we have to think about the regulation of this market, today in football, tomorrow in other sports, it seems very difficult, if not dangerous, to impose a tax on the national level alone, even though the sports economy, in this case football, is essentially European or even international. This tax would only make sense if it were carried to the level of the continent, so that all European clubs would be confronted with the same rules of the game. If this were to be the case, the creation of a levy on player transfers should only be considered in the context of a tax arrangement at European Union level. It would indeed be surprising if we were to install elements of distorted competition at the expense of our country, at a time when France is seeking to harmonise the European Union fiscally and socially. I come to the question of competitiveness. From an economic point of view, this tax would severely penalise French clubs and strengthen the competitive imbalance between our clubs and those of the main European countries, without any real hope of imitation. Some of you, I know, hope that this measure will be adopted in other countries that would follow the example of France. Why would they do that, even though they are already more competitive than we are? Why would they do that, when adoption in our country alone would further strengthen this advantage for them? Furthermore, are we certain that all these countries are facing the same problems and that they all have the same funding needs for amateur sport? Ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic, the current weight of French football in the various European championships does not seem to give our country a leading role in introducing such a tax in our European neighbours. While the French professional football sector is a strong source of activity and employment, it remains very competitive in other European markets. Of course, we have reasons to congratulate ourselves and, above all, to congratulate the leaders on the professionalization of French clubs. Of course, the turnover of French football continues to grow. Of course, for the first time in seven seasons, the accumulated net result of the forty professional football clubs is surplus, although timidly. However, it is a matter of comparing what is comparable. Clubs in the Big Four countries – England, Spain, Germany, Italy – have sales without any measure in common with ours. The only net result of English clubs is almost three times higher than that of French clubs. We know the main reasons for this gap: the resources derived from audiovisual rights are much less important for our clubs than elsewhere, and the tax burden on clubs and social charges are significantly higher in France. It is not for me to judge this here, neither from an economic point of view nor from a moral point of view, but it is a fact. Let us not forget that the wage bill-to-turn ratio for French football clubs represents more than 60%. We thus easily understand the reasons why the players in the French sports sector, while trying to catch up slowly with the attractiveness of other European clubs, are all opposed to this measure of taxation of transfers at national level alone. The introduction of this tax on our soil alone would lead to a decline in competitiveness for our clubs, which would lower the quality of our championship and undermine the efforts made to strengthen the attractiveness of our league. Because it is the players' agents who make the transfers and hold the market. They're mobile. They have a European or even international logic. In addition, there is a real problem with the start date of the tax which the proposed law provides for the creation of, i.e., 1 August. As the summer mercato ends on August 31, the clubs, to buy the most performing players, and this just after the World Cup of football in Russia, where some champions have proved themselves, will be tempted to close the transfers before August 1st. In fact, these players, who could join the French championship, would automatically become more expensive and the time to organize their transfer much shorter, within a single championship, ours. As it stands, the mismatch between the beginning of taxation and the legal transfer window will cause a boon effect for clubs and significant imbalances in the market. This bounty effect, which would completely disrupt mercato in France, would be a bad blow to our clubs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am elected from a city, Nice, which, like all of you, vibrates for its football club, in this case OGC Nice. This club, which is experiencing a slightly more difficult season than the previous two, has a very reasonable overall budget – less than 50 million euros. He succeeded thanks to the skill of his leaders, President Rivère, his Puel coaches then Favre, and especially his players, to finish in the first five two years in a row, and even on the podium last year, without ever exceeding the threshold of 10 million euros, a threshold that you have mentioned several times, Mr rapporteur, as being able to trigger the tax for the purchase of a player. Indeed, in 2017 the French-French transfer market accounted for only four transfers exceeding EUR 10 million. This tax would therefore affect only a few clubs for a few rare players. This bill probably meets the expectations of the public, it is popular, you know. You have even communicated this widely. However, I assure you: we are aware of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u111	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u112	We know the difficulties of amateur clubs in finding funds, which leads us to another topic: the problem of sport governance. There is indeed a need for a global reflection on the governance of sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u113	And budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u114	It is a serious problem that affects sport, from the national to the international level. Whether played in a professional club or an amateur club, sport is unifying. It is a bearer of civic values that we all share: respect, solidarity and team spirit. It brings the taste of effort. He is a transpassor, because he allows us to spend a good time, all together, on a field, by making us forget our political labels. I would not like us to legislate in a form of urgency, outside of reality, with only a result that would probably not come into force in practice, it has been recalled, for legal reasons. Indeed – this is my third set of arguments – beyond the question of the relevant level of application of the provision and the economic and competitiveness problems it would pose, we would probably, because of the adoption of this measure, face several legal risks at national and European level. Imposing a tax only in our country would force foreign buyers and limit the movement of domestic players. This would therefore be a distortion of competition, which would run counter to Community legislation governing regulatory mechanisms in sport, with the risk of France being condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Better, by making a difference between small and large transfers and by taxing only the latter, the measure could prove unconstitutional for breach of equality before the tax. Perhaps we could rather think – this is a question – about a differentiated and progressive European tax based on the amounts of transfers. [[Exclaims on the UAI benches and on several LR benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, all of this deserves further study. I therefore prefer that we take all the time necessary to reflect calmly, away from passions, and collectively build a suitable response.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u115	Go ahead, reject our text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u116	Why didn't you put forward a motion for referral to committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u117	We can act in several directions. Of course, we could introduce a tax, but we could also build a system based on a completely different organization, in the spirit of what has been set up in the United States for the NBA, for example. Let's put all the options on the table, let's see what our European partners are ready to do and dare to be ambitious! Legislation at national level alone, introducing a kind of "Neymar tax" for a few players, in disregard of European rules and the interests of our own clubs, would not address legitimately raised problems regarding the financing of amateur sport and the solidarity of professional sport. We must take up the original idea, work on it in depth and be pedagogic at European level. We want France to maintain its position, not to cut its grass under its feet, but to act as a forerunner by bringing wide-ranging rules on the transfer of players to sport at European or even international level. You made it clear, Mr rapporteur: this will was expressed the day before yesterday at the meeting between President Emmanuel Macron and FIFA President Gianni Infantino. According to the FIFA communiqué, the President of the Republic proposed "that France assist in organizing a period of reflection with the various European countries on the reforms of European legislation which it would be necessary to undertake in order to accompany this regulatory approach". This commitment at the highest level reinforces the commitment expressed by the Government. Madam Minister, you have told us that France could bring this kind of debate and proposal to the level of the European Union. I know that you really have the will to start this debate, to discuss it with your European counterparts and to give our House its full place. As France pursues a policy of event attractiveness for hosting major sporting events, with a point of focus that we all know, that of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, it is essential that our country get to the level of its neighbours in terms of practices and competitiveness. [[Exclaims on the UAI benches and on several LR benches]] Finally, I want to point out that the aim of the roadmap set by the Minister of Sport is to develop the competitiveness of French sport by consolidating the economic aspect of this sector, with a long-term vision that we all share and which is also the subject of this bill. [[Same movements]] You will have understood that, ladies and gentlemen: the moving Republic Group will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u118	There's nothing more normal! You're the one who dropped it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u119	... not because we would be opposed in substance to this bill, but on the contrary in order to allow this idea to materialize at European level, in perfect symbiosis with the sports world, the amateur world and local authorities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u120	It's always the same with you! What an incompetence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u121	...with, of course, political will and support from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u122	Why don't you let us discuss the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u123	You don't have a monopoly on amateur sport, and neither do we. Amateur sport concerns and brings together all French people, beyond political labels.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u124	All the more reason to discuss the amendments! You're cutting the debate short!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u125	I would also remind you that sport is unifying, like football in our assembly during the matches of the French parliamentary team.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u126	Let's get to the end of the discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u127	Mr rapporteur, I cannot let you say that this motion for a preliminary rejection is laughable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u128	She is!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Don't think it's a defeat. Let's be ambitious! By voting on this motion, I suggest you play the Champions League instead!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u130	On the vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the IUD Group, the Independents and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u131	I salute Cédric Roussel, who participated in the drafting of this bill – I recognize this merit. I will not go back to the substance of this text, as we have already discussed it several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u132	You'd have to! We will probably not have the opportunity to discuss the amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u133	On the other hand, I'll go back to the form. We have exactly three amendments to consider, and I would just like to propose that you adopt one of them, tabled by Mrs Buffet, which would have allowed us to limit the financial impact of this bill. Instead, the majority proposes to adopt a motion to reject it beforehand. As I said this morning, we were sold a new National Assembly, which works differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u134	"Otherwise" does not mean "better"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u135	[[Exclaims on the UAI benches and on several LR benches]] We are opposed to a rejection motion which will put an end to any debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you are not about to vote in favour or against the text; You will decide whether or not we will be able to go to the end of this story, examine the amendments and see where all this leads us. Let me repeat what I have already said to you this morning: next week or in fifteen days, you will attend the general assemblies of the clubs of your constituencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u136	They're not going! They won't dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u137	And what are you going to say then? Are you going to say that in the National Assembly, you didn't want us to talk about this, to study this proposal from you, to go to the end? That's the real question! [[Applause on the benches of the UAI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LR and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me just talk to you. Earlier, you'll make your choice. You may be for or against this text – it's not the subject – but let us study it to the end! I think the future of French volunteers and amateur sport deserves it very widely.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u138	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u139	Mr rapporteur, we have worked together. You yourself pointed out that you had worked with Cédric Roussel, who has just defended this motion of rejection. Of course, we are not going to discuss this in public for a long time, but we have studied this text in committee, we have examined the amendments and we have voted. If we really want to make the work of the National Assembly more effective, we can say that the committee has done its work in depth, on the basis of your report, and that you have invited the minister to look at the movements of money within federations and the world of sport in general. Let's go! Let's do our assessment and monitoring work! On this basis, we will come back in a few months with everything we need to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u140	Next time, we will propose a higher tax! It'll be 10%!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u141	We could then follow the action of the French Government and the President of the French Republic at European level. It is not a question of short-circuiting the work that has been carried out in depth. Given the motion to reject the bill, we may proceed to consider the next bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u142	Wait till we vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u143	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us rework this text in a few months, once we have an in-depth knowledge of this subject, which is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u144	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. The next speaker is Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u145	We object to this motion of rejection for two reasons. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] The first one is about shape. As the rapporteur has just pointed out, we are quite astonished at the tabling of this motion, when only three amendments were to be considered today in open session. We deplore it all the more because the subject of this bill met with a strong echo among our fellow citizens and on social networks. Whether it is opposed or not, this text deserves, at least, to be debated in the form, before national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u146	The debate took place!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u147	On the merits, this bill would have allowed us to make a strong gesture of solidarity...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u148	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u149	... without penalising professional clubs, which we recognize and welcome as a locomotive for the whole of French sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u151	Furthermore, we fully agree on the need for action at European level on this issue. However, we believe it is essential for France to set a milestone and lead this project – this position is quite consistent with the very pro-European DNA of our group. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] This bill remains relevant. The IUD, Act and Independent Group will therefore of course vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u153	Let us continue the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u154	[["The jersey! » on several benches of the REM, LR and UAI groups]] Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u155	The shorts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u156	Crampons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u157	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u158	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I, too, deplore the tabling of this motion of rejection, the adoption of which would prevent us from reaching the end of the democratic debate and from examining the articles of the text. [[Claims on several benches of the REM and IAU groups]] I want to point out something which may seem minor but which appears almost more clearly in this debate than during the discussion of major texts on labour code reform or taxation. For example, this text deals with sport, but you only talk about very open markets, competition, innovation, performance, tax rules...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u159	That's normal! We're talking about professional sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u160	[[Claims on several benches of the REM and IAU groups]] We end up with a logic of traders! I wonder where the heart was in all your speeches.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u161	Listen to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u162	What is the role of a bill? We didn't have any illusions: we knew it wasn't going to be adopted! A bill is intended to open a debate, and this text has succeeded in doing so effectively. I am surprised and even alerted by the emptiness of counterproposals. I expected that we would be announced the creation of a mission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u163	That's what I just said, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u164	...that one admits the existence of a big funding problem for amateur sport...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u165	I said it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u166	I expected immediate answers! You just tell us that it may come. We have no information about what will happen next. I'm telling you about my skepticism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u167	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u168	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I come to your argument on Europe. You are pro-European, but you defend Europe in such a way that you kill it. Indeed, you say that we cannot implement a measure that is not revolutionary – I support it but we would have gone much further – because of Europe and free and undistorted competition. With this mode of reasoning, which leads us to stagnation, you kill Europe! Michel Zumkeller's reasoning is obviously the right one: we must act and train the other Member States behind us. If you do not, you will harm Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u169	FIFA sets rules on player transfers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u170	Finally, your emergency design is variable geometry. There was an absolute urgency to reform very quickly the labour code, which is still very important, which has existed for a long time and which protects employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u171	There are 10 per cent of the unemployed in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u172	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Today, however, we are discussing a small reform, but we must not act as a matter of urgency. Thus, this bill also serves as a revelation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u174	It's nothing but No argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u175	That was bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u176	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u177	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u178	I am committed to professional sport being organized within a federal framework. If we want to maintain the unity of the sports movement, we must be able to regulate professional sport and pool the resources allocated to sport for the benefit of amateur sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u179	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u180	Otherwise, we will not be able to maintain this unit. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and UAI groups]] When we decided to create sports-related public limited companies for professional clubs, when we decided to ban their listing on the stock exchange – even though this measure was later called into question – when we decided to introduce a levy on audiovisual rights, we acted without the authorisation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u181	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u182	On the other hand, we have made the European Union aware of these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u183	What about the walkers?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u184	We have obtained the organisation of the first meeting of EU sports ministers. We have obtained the European Union's recognition in the Treaty of Nice of sport as one of its competences. We can therefore go further and push the European Union to take broader measures in the area of sport regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u185	We started to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u186	A second reason will lead us to vote against this motion of rejection. You have all said, in your speeches, that we should go further, clarify things and improve this text. Amendments make it possible to do so: why do you prevent us from discussing it? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and UAI groups]] We will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u188	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Testé, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u189	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] As Cédric Roussel has just pointed out, the bill we are discussing today presents many risks to the competitiveness of French clubs. While we have all been shocked by the amount of two summer transfers, this bill has more disadvantages than benefits. Its purely national character would indeed penalise French clubs, while the economy of sport, and especially football, is European or even global. The already fierce competition would become totally unfair and this tax could unbalance an economy based on the gains realized on player sales. However, the idea of taxing transfers is not meaningless, but, as has already been said, it must be implemented at European, UEFA and even at international level at FIFA level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u190	You're exaggerating! Why not on an inter-side scale while you're there?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u191	Indeed, many of the countries that compete in European competitions are not members of the European Union – I am thinking of Turkey, Russia, Switzerland and soon England, which will come out and whose championship is the richest in the world. On Tuesday, at the Elysée, Emmanuel Macron said he was ready to think about reforms to be undertaken at European level, during his exchange with FIFA President Infantino, concerning the necessary regulation of transfers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u192	It's going well, he's the one who's cashing the money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u193	Introducing a national tax means shooting a ball in the foot: it is the guarantee to have a championship that is not competitive compared to the other major European championships. Moreover, it should be recalled that professional clubs already contribute to the CNDS, via television retransmission rights and the Buffet tax, to the amount of EUR 39.3 million per year. In total, every year the contribution of professional clubs to the development of amateur sport is 100 million euros, or about 5% of their turnover. In addition, transfers are already taxed via VAT, and a small percentage of these transfers are already redistributed to training clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u194	You should send invitations to the general assemblies of the small clubs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u195	In addition, clubs pay social contributions for each professional player, so they already make a significant contribution to the country's economy. In short, our group will vote for this motion of rejection in order to avoid our professional clubs being penalized by this tax and losing competitiveness. Professional sport needs amateur sport, but mutuality is also true. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We need to have big clubs to make the French dream and to make our young people want to do sport, so that we can reach the announced target of 3 million practitioners by the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u196	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u197	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Group will generally support this motion of rejection, for the same substantive reasons as I put it in the rostrum earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u198	We're talking about a rejection motion, not the text. This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u199	[[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] Mr Zumkeller, we agree with the problems you have in funding amateur associations and in funding our small clubs, but as I explained to you, it is clear that the introduction of such a tax would lead to a reduction in the revenues of amateur clubs, by punctuating the professional clubs that are helping them today. [[Same movements]] This would indeed lead to a decline in the competitiveness of our professional sports clubs – which, I would remind you, have a corporate status. This is a track that we do not want to explore today to meet the challenges of funding amateur sport. For our part, we want to make progress on supporting local infrastructure and projects, by increasing the resources of local authorities and, possibly, by punctuating part of the Olympic Games' revenues to finance them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and REM groups. – Protests on the benches of the UAI group]] It is clear, however, that a transfer tax is not a good thing either for amateur sport or for sport in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u200	The next speaker is Mr Jimmy Pahun, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u201	[[Smile]] Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, the bill put forward by our colleagues in the UDI Group, Agir et indépendants - La Mondiale introduces a 5% tax on professional sports transfers, which would be donated to the Centre national pour le développement du sport in order to finance the development of amateur sport in France. The professional and amateur sports world is no stranger to me, because I bathed in it for many years before joining the benches of the Assembly. So I know, if not all of the stakes, at least a number, and I know the importance of amateur sport in terms of social integration and personal development. I also know the great difficulties many amateur clubs face in financing themselves, especially in the context of a reduction in CNDS revenues, which was announced in the Finance Act for 2018. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] The introduction of such a tax, however, is not the right answer to the problems that amateur sport faces today. The arguments in this respect are numerous and well-known: I will mention only the distortion of competition which is detrimental to the attractiveness of a country or the loss of important revenue from the taxes which professional players pay when they come to France. [["Very good! » on several benches of the REM group]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, action must be taken to strengthen the practice of sport in France and to allow smaller clubs to continue to carry on an essential activity, but the tax proposed here has too many undesirable effects, without, however, solving the problems that these clubs face. The majority of the MODEM and related groups will therefore vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u202	We've known the braver MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u203	The next speaker is Mr Hervé Saulignac, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u204	This morning, Mr Régis Juanico expressed our position on this text, saying that we were in favour, in principle, of a tax on transfers of professional athletes, but he also referred, in substance, to the shortcomings suffered by this text and which would have led our group not to vote on this proposal. [[Approvals on many UAI benches]] [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the UAI group]] However, we believe, and we are probably very numerous here in this case, that the debate would have deserved to be held. However, it will not take place. Stop the debate, it's not the new world we were promised. We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u205	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u206	Consequently, the bill is rejected and there is no need to proceed to the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u207	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u208	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u209	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Philippe Vigier and others establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (No. 303, 426).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u210	Mr Vigier, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u211	Mr President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the Chairperson of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, ladies and gentlemen, exposed to the opposite winds of globalisation, two Frances are moving dangerously away from each other: that of happy globalisation, connected to the world, which is found in the cities and which today benefits from the concentration of wealth and services to the most efficient population; that of the periphery, of the medium-sized cities, of the neighborhoods, of the rurality, for which the horizon of possibles continues to darken: it tries to survive in a world that no longer seems to want of it and of all that has forged its identity, its culture and its way of life. This France suffers cruelly from no longer having prospects, from being forgotten, from being despised. She shouts her unease with all her strength, but this strangled cry finds no answer. I would like to say this from the outset: in making this observation, I do not want to oppose the territories. I know this: faced with the emergence of a new world, the challenges are enormous, whether for our metropolises, our small and medium-sized cities or our villages. I am convinced, however, that the urgency is more pressing for peripheral and rural France, which has the feeling that it has been abandoned by the Republic and excluded from the solidarity it offers. It bows under the weight of indifference and is promised to decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u212	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u213	[["Yes! » on several benches of the UAI group]] Today, entire territories are landlocked due to poor transport infrastructure. The industrial fabric is often exsanguated. Medical desertification is progressing more than elsewhere. The difficulties of access to mobile telephony, at very high speed, condemn them to isolation. The public services disappear one after the other and the city centres die there. Access to education, housing, recreation and culture is still difficult and insecurity has often increased. These territorial fractures help to establish one France against the other. Peripheral and rural France bows under the weight of indifference and is promised to decline. At the same time, these difficulties must not cause us to forget that metropolitan areas and large agglomerations are also facing major challenges. Urban congestion opens up problems of energy and digital transition, creates environmental health problems and generates new forms of precariousness. We cannot continue to maintain this distrust between these two Frances who, after election, see the French taking refuge ever more in the extreme vote or in abstention: the Republican pact is at stake! We must also understand that tomorrow's growth will take place in all territories and that they must be supported in order to fully realize their potential. Achieving the harmonious development of all territories is an everyday struggle led by local elected officials. They don't ask for alms, they don't expect everything from the state, they fight every day. In the face of territorial divides, it is urgent that the state support their fight by finally assuming its role as strategic pilot, which it has abandoned, and by giving new impetus to policies vital to our territories. I see four priorities, Secretary of State. First, housing, which you know well. It is necessary to go further than the ANRU, which has done very fine things, by intervening in small towns and rural villages if we are to welcome new families or elderly people. Secondly, health policy and, in particular, access to health care, in order to halt the progress of medical deserts. Thirdly, the policy of mobile telephony: despite all the promises made by operators, white areas do not diminish, either in rural areas or in the periphery of cities. Finally, fourthly, the digital divide: rural areas are the last and least well served, not by broadband, i.e. at 30 megabits – it doesn't make sense! – but in very high speed. How will funding be made available? Through this bill, in which Thierry Benoit, Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier or Béatrice Descamps became involved with passion, we propose that this new impetus be coordinated through a national agency for the cohesion of the territories. I would like to present to you here our vision of the functioning of this agency. First of all, we have not designed it for a few: we have given a lot of thought to the ANRU example, we have heard a lot from local elected officials, representatives of regions, departments, small towns and even overseas territories. I have only one regret: your colleague minister did not think it necessary to give us a little time to speak with us, which is a bit of a shame in the Republican debate. This agency is not intended to decide for the territories. There's no self in the archanes of the administrations! Let us stop putting our territories under tutelage or corserating their initiatives! It must unleash energies, unleash their potential by being the armed arm of an expert, federative and facilitator State. To do this, we have to leave the territories. It is therefore the communes, the intercommunalities – Stéphane Le Foll asked me in committee on this point a few days ago – that will carry the structural projects for the basins of life. It will therefore be necessary to give priority to the projects of territories, through three-year contracts – no calls for projects repeating themselves in the envious! – because the projects of contracting call on the intelligence, the solidarity of the territories and the elected ones. Secondly, the regional presidents, the departmental presidents and the prefect will meet to arrive at a quick decision, a close decision, within a forum of territorial dialogue, guaranteeing a real decentralization of the agency: this will avoid reviving what is all too often known with state contracts. They will put these projects on their agenda, with an evaluation – parliamentarians can play a role – with the action of the communal bloc and a hierarchy according to the level of emergency. We do not want a logic of the first of the ropes, namely the metropolises, whose wealth would run over peripheral and rural France. No, on the contrary, we want an alliance of territories, trust, a logic of partnership, contracting and synergy between territories. This logic will make it possible to mobilise all the actors around a real global territorial strategy, adapted to each basin of life, to value its specificities, without these steps being disconnected from each other. Metropolises are lucid: they know they can't do anything, they know they can't ignore the cities and territories connected to them. They are also aware of the changes in lifestyles, of the profound changes associated with the development of digital technology. They know that men and women living on the periphery also make the wealth of metropolises because they work there, use transport, public services and thus contribute to their vitality. As for the rural and peripheral areas, whether they are mountainous, touristic, coastal or overseas – and I would point out for our colleague, Maïna Sage – they are filled with creative energy, full of intelligence and talents that, despite the obstacles, are taking on, innovating and succeeding. They are also the key to tomorrow's growth. It is therefore necessary to give these two France the envy and the means to work hand in hand, in order to sew up the territory, as a moulder. This is the ambition of this agency, which, like the ANRU, will have to be a one-stop shop and not a gas factory. It will also have to put engineering at the disposal of the territories, encourage the pooling of resources, strengthen local engineering – which can be substantial, with metropolises, with capital cities, also with the departments. All funding must be mobilised, as Jean-Louis Borloo had known in his time to do with great intelligence. I am thinking in particular of the financing of the State, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and also part of the investment programme for the future, particularly in favour of the digital transition. This agency will not be a new structure in addition to others. I want to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen: let us not add technostructure to technostructure or constraints.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u214	On the contrary, the agency must operate flexibly, and be attached to the Prime Minister, so that there is a real decision-making tree. The National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU –, the National Housing Agency – ANAH –, the Office of the General Commissioner for Territorial Equality – CGET –, the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Development – CEREMA – and the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – ADEME – must be engaged and obliged to work in coordination with this agency. If this is not the case, it will be the assured failure. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you draw the contours of a new agency. You rejected it in committee, although the President of the Republic, on 18 July, indicated that a national agency for the cohesion of the territories should be set up. A few months before this statement, I had already drafted this bill. So, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you're on your way, I'm running to sew up the territory of the Republic! Moreover, the Prime Minister, at the National Conference of Territories, had insisted on the need to create this agency. The motions for prior rejection and referral to committee that have been tabled show that we do not even give ourselves the time to deepen such a debate, when we know not only the damage that this situation creates for the women and men of this territory and the way in which this has been reflected last spring, but also the commitments of the President of the Republic. [[Vif applause on the benches of the UAI group]] The IUD, Action and Independent Group makes proposals and hopes that we can get out of the misconceptions. These territories can no longer wait, so let us dare and act!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u215	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u216	We'll hear what we've heard for 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u217	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a national agency for the cohesion of the territories was in fact announced by the President of the Republic at the National Conference of Territories, and specified during his speech at the Congress of the Association of Mayors of France a few days ago. This agency is structured around a clear objective: according to the President of the Republic, it will have to be a "tool for mobilizing resources, know-how", which facilitates projects at the local level. This will is based on several findings. The first, you rightly pointed out, Mr rapporteur, is that the territories should not be opposed to each other. Let's stop opposing metropolises to rural territories, city centres to neighbourhoods. You have also recalled very well what is the daily life of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, of which Jacques Mézard and I have the burden: territorial divides exist and are perceived as such by many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u218	And other than that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u219	But these are not six months ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u220	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u221	They have been in existence for several decades and are reflected in medical deserts, difficulties in accessing digital technology, and mobility issues, which are far too little dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u222	And what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u223	The needs in the territories remain considerable, for example in terms of digital access. So while teleworking is now enshrined in the law, only one in two Frenchmen has access to very high-speed broadband.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u224	We all know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u225	Thus, a two-speed society is being created through new modes of society. The same applies to access to health care – to remedy medical deserts, telemedicine will increasingly be used – for access to public services and culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u226	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u227	Our will is clear: it is to give everyone the same opportunity to succeed and flourish, by offering them the same public services throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u228	Nothing changes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u229	To combat these territorial divides, the ministry is engaged in a series of large-scale projects. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have been engaged in virile discussions for the past five months, if I can describe them, with all the mobile telephone operators. According to official figures, 98.8% of the inhabitants in France have access to mobile telephones. However, you all remember that the lack of a network was the first issue our fellow citizens complained about on the markets during the campaign for the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u231	We have undertaken to negotiate a genuine action plan with all the operators, whom I meet again this evening and tomorrow, in order to introduce more transparency, to conclude binding commitments and to negotiate more investments. We will finalize these negotiations in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u232	We're waiting for the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u233	To combat territorial divides, we also intend to double the number of service houses to the public. We have also launched a very ambitious plan for medium-sized cities, which have all too often been forgotten in recent years, in favour of the revitalization of city centres, both by housing and by shops. [["Oh yes! » on the benches of the UAI group]] But that will not be enough if we fail to reverse the logic of public action. The state is primarily there to set the course and support the territorial actors who propose, imagine, innovate and implement the projects. In recent years, however, the State has too often shown great creativity in the field of territorial public policies, multiplying standards on the one hand, and calls for projects on the other, forgetting contracts, without paying attention to the overall coherence of its intervention tools. Worse, the state has too often forgotten that it must first and foremost be a facilitator – this is its role – at the service of the actors in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u234	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u235	In particular, the number of ministerial and administrative agencies has increased. This does not contribute to the readability or effectiveness of public action. The agency that I mentioned in the introduction, which is the subject of this bill, is designed to address all of these challenges. What are the guiding principles today? The role of such an agency is above all to respond to the demand of local elected officials, to be at their service and to provide them with what they need. The Agency must be a powerful tool for mobilizing around four priorities: mobilising resources, including financial resources; mobilising know-how; facilitating projects; bring together support and competitions. I agree with the ambition of the bill that you are defending, Mr rapporteur, that the Agency will have to participate in the harmonious development of the territories, through the implementation of a national plan for territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u237	The aim will be to revitalize, de-enclave and develop rural and peripheral areas; reinvigorate medium-sized cities and their city centres; support transitions, be they ecological, digital or environmental. It is at the service of this vision that we must create a structure to accompany what local elected officials do on a daily basis. The President of the Republic announced it in July and then repeated it before the Congress of the Association of Mayors of France: "The State, while keeping the legitimate ministerial responsibilities, will have an agency that will make things much easier". Simplification, at the service of local elected representatives, is the meaning of the agency we want to create. Since then, we have been working together on the architecture of this agency. We have, of course, leads and convictions, but nothing has been stopped for the time being: the debates that we will have today will support the options. With regard to engineering support, first of all, the Agency could put in place a clear service offer, based on the mobilisation of today's diffuse and poorly identified expertise, which must be provided when local elected representatives so request. The agency must also draw on existing energies and federate them. It must involve different partners and make them work together. You mentioned a lot, Mr rapporteur – the state, its various agencies, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and other partners. The agency will be at the disposal of elected representatives: in other words, it will be a tool for the benefit of projects carried out by local elected representatives. The bill for a State in the service of a trust society, which was presented to the Council of Ministers and which will be debated in the near future in this House, is evidence of this desire for renovation, for paradigm change. Departmental agencies and administration must act as facilitators and as support in response to requests from the field, not the other way around. Finally, the networking of expertise, the concentration and extension of funding arrangements by the State and its partners, national, local or European – as is well known, many funds are now allocated by the European Commission – are all opportunities to make state intervention more visible, effective and coordinated with all local elected officials. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a matter of catching up. The main aim is to pursue a new ambition and to give access to new means. I hear fears here or there. I understand the concerns. Everything we do naturally needs to be the subject of intense discussion and consultation, both with existing agencies and with national representatives or local elected representatives. This is one of the subjects on the agenda of the second edition of the National Conference of Territories, which, after last July's, will be held in the middle of next week in Cahors. Let us come to the reasons why we are not in favour of the adoption of the bill that you are defending, Mr rapporteur. We are not in favour of it, not because your ambition would be contrary to ours – I have shown that we support it and share it, and that we want to go exactly the same way, as far as possible, together – but because we want to act in concert and in addition not only to what already exists in the State services but also to what actors are already doing in the territories. We want to identify the needs of the territories. These cross-cutting objectives and consultations are long to build. It is also an appointment set out in the road map of the National Conference of Territories: we will have an opportunity to discuss it in a few days. These discussions have therefore not been concluded. Moreover, the Agency's tasks do not appear at this stage to justify the establishment of a public industrial and commercial establishment, as provided for in your proposed law. This does not mean, however, that a precise legal form is decided, but in any case, your bill anticipates too much on the continuation of the debates. It also anticipates the reflections on the scope and modalities of the agency's intervention as well as all the services it will have to render. These points have not yet been settled. The suggestions that will be made and the exchanges that we are going to have today must feed into the work in progress. You can count on our full support to defend a high ambition. I will ensure that all the concepts, ideas and proposals contained in this bill feed into the creation of the agency to which we are working. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance for your contributions to give substance to this agency, led by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the entire Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u238	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u239	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, Mr Philippe, I thought, Mr Secretary of State, that I should address Jacques Mézard, too, do not take my remarks for you, if they seem a little brutal to you. A rural lawyer, I have been in this house for fifteen years, tirelessly, being the only member of parliament for the Lozère – which I am proud of. I deal with the life, problems and human realities of almost 80% of French territory and 20% of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u240	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u241	I could have made a classic plea in this august house. It will be tonic and somewhat decoupling, with regard to both the State and the central administration and the Government. Creating a national agency for rural development is the meaning of this bill. I take full responsibility for this not only with my colleagues Philippe Vigier and Thierry Benoit, as well as with the entire UDI group, Agir et indépendants, but also with other parliamentarians of the previous Socialist-majority legislature, where I had already tabled, in vain, this bill. I honour myself with a certain consistency in my conception of a new consideration of rural life. This should not be limited to agriculture, but should include all actors. In committee, it was conceived to link this agency to the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories. No! The CGET is an administrative thing that does not correspond in any way to my vision: it is complacent in studies but is not an active and dynamic tool for the revitalization of the territories. It's been known all along!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u242	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u243	Our colleague Jean-François Cesarini has launched the idea of hanging up the intermediate territories to the metropolises. Disaster! I am also not in favour of this approach, which will eventually dilute and eliminate rural areas in urban areas. On the contrary, I advocate, like the ANRU – a public industrial and commercial institution whose essential mission is to ensure the implementation of the national urban renewal programme – why not, a rural EPIC. We must launch such a tool, if necessary by merging different existing structures, as you have said, rapporteur. This agency, with financial resources, could support structural projects throughout the country; offer administrative, financial and technical engineering, as was the technical assistance provided by the State services for reasons of solidarity and spatial planning – ATESAT – which was abolished in 2014; Finally, to play a mediation role in the application of standards in rural areas. I had also tabled a bill on the legal principle of adapting standards in rural areas, which was discussed twice and rejected by the former socialist government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u244	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u245	It was the old world, it seems... Far from my intention to cut the grass under the Government's foot. But as the only Member of Parliament for the Lozère, I was able to measure the widening gap between our political elites, our central administrations and our territories. Minister, what culture in the rural sector does a Paris-based state official actually have? None! For years, no presidential program has proposed a real plan to rescue the rural sector, not even Emmanuel Macron's. You are responsible for the cohesion of the territories: that means nothing, today and yesterday. I've met ministers in 15 years! Here are some examples. The first, which concerns fixed telephony, is extraordinary. Orange hasn't maintained copper lines in ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u246	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u247	Fixed telephony is, however, a universal service imposed by the legislator. I file a criminal complaint; ARCEP grudges; The Defender of Rights speaks of territorial discrimination. And what are you doing? In November, you re-attribute to Orange the universal service of fixed telephony. Bravo! What do you weigh against P.D.G. of Orange who earns four times as much as you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u248	Ooh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u249	...and who imposes his vision? Nothing! [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] As far as digital technology is concerned, I am disappointed to see, for example in my home in Lozère, that local authorities finance fibre and therefore call on local taxpayers instead of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u251	In Lozère, it is 100 million euros that will be injected, even though the overall budget of the department is 140 million euros. What's the state doing? And the development of digital technology is now part of the budget of local authorities. The money we put there, we don't put it anywhere else, and, in the meantime, aid to small municipalities, communal infrastructures and associations disappear. Regarding medical demography, a local elected official is confronted with rarity and mercantilism. We have to buy the doctors to get them to settle down. No rent, no taxes, no royalties, no taxes! What's the state doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u252	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u253	Multi-disciplinary houses to several million euros, which are often empty. But doctors are untouchable, and Social Security pays. Let's see, it's so simple! With regard to public services, post offices, perceptions and schools continue to be lost; Tomorrow they will be gendarmes, police stations, perhaps even sub-prefectures. As for the areas of rural revitalization, 18,000 communes are now integrated: the scheme becomes useless. We have even lost the possibility of issuing passports and identity cards at the municipal level. And I am not talking about national policy on railway, road and air infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u254	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u255	A little word, finally, about volunteer firefighters. There are 193000, compared to 200000 a few years ago. What's the state doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u256	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u257	He's launching a mission. But this mission was made eight years ago; I was.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u258	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u259	We must conclude, Mr. Morel-à-L'Huissier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u260	As long as the state does not help public and private employers, there will be a vocation crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u261	There'll be no firefighters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u262	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] I'm calling for a break. Minister, finally do something for rural life!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u263	Save the Lozère!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u264	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u265	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, does France need a national cohesion agency for the territories? The question may seem impertinent or even provocative, but it deserves to be asked. Not to deny the imbalances that affect the different territories of the Republic, but simply because we need to draw up the state of affairs of this fractured France and then define the best tools to repair it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u266	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u267	There will always be insurmountable inequalities, as there are inequalities by nature. There are territories rich in their water resources, fertile land, plains that are easily constructed, and where, very early on, men developed their activities; and there are others that have to overcome their natural handicaps, their forced relief or their enclave. There are those who have experienced rural exodus and industrial crises. Finally, there are those who nurture a sense of abandonment when a post office closes, when a school yard shuts down, when a maternity leaves room for a perinatal centre, when a last trade disappears and demography falls apart. These inequalities, imbalances, territorial breakdowns, whatever their origin, have introduced the idea of a multi-speed France. This is the real subject. What are those territories that are picking up and that could, sooner than we believe, turn against a Republic that no longer keeps its promises? How can public policies be rearmed so that they can once again demonstrate their ability to produce solidarity, particularly with this peripheral France? You see, I am less in favour of the cohesion of the territories than of their equality, understood as equal opportunities, equal access to basic public services, equal treatment by public policies. Similarly, I am less in favour of an umpteenth agency than of the means that are lacking to carry out health, education, justice, service to the population – everything that helps to resettle the Republic and its action in the territories that it has sometimes left. I am elected from a rural department, like the previous speaker and many others here. As a matter of urgency, my department needs doctors, a functioning telephone network, an internet with the right flow and roads in good condition. I can go home tomorrow and tell people that we are going to create an agency to improve cohesion with the territory next door: it will not offer them the doctor, nor the very high speed. Let us start by introducing cohesion into policies and budgets if the fractures we denounce are to cease to worsen. Let us begin by disapprove of what the budget of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, which is collapsing, will be like in 2018: it is falling by almost 10%! Let us also start by debating what the last governments have left behind: decentralization, which has been the most effective instrument of territorial cohesion ever produced. The sorrowful and Jacobinist minds affirmed that decentralization would lead to the rapid development of rich territories and leave the most modest territories behind. This was not the case, and it must be noted that, in thirty-five years of decentralization, local and territorial authorities have been able to overcome many fractures. In short, it is clear what territorial cohesion owes to decentralization, and this project must be reopened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u268	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u269	He's much more promising than all agencies. In addition, there are too many projects to be completed so that we need to open up others: we must strengthen the intercommunities, create a real right to experiment, restore fiscal autonomy to the communities, grant new resources to the department – which the NOTRE law has recognized as a privileged instrument of territorial solidarity, but without giving it the means to be so – and simplify the far too many contracts between the State and the communities. Finally, when will we break with accounting considerations to decide on the future of certain public services?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u271	It would be too expensive to maintain maternity in the countryside when it carries out less than 500 deliveries a year, too expensive to maintain deconcentrated teacher training, too expensive to deploy the very high speed in the underpopulated areas. How can we hope to strengthen territorial and social cohesion when we say that some people are too expensive because of the place where they were born, because of the land where they chose to settle? As you will understand, my group will keep reminding us that all territories are entitled to the same chances of success. For this, we need a comprehensive and new political vision, which treats the territories as it should treat those who live there, that is, by fighting against everything that produces exclusion. My remarks on the shortcomings of this text are equally valid, at this stage, for the policy of the Government, which cultivates its own agency project in an opacity that leads to questions, despite the beautiful intentions outlined in particular at the Congress of Mayors by the President of the Republic. We are prepared to work for cohesion, equality and solidarity, always, but on the basis of a shared diagnosis, with specific objectives and appropriate policies – as many requirements as this bill does not meet at this stage. We will therefore abstain from voting if the text is not sent back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u272	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u273	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in May 2016, the National Association of Rural News, the National Union of Local Development Actors and Structures (UNADEL) and the Rural City Collective addressed a proposal to the Interministerial Committee on Rural Development, held in Privas, to pool a number of proven means, tools and methods, in order to feed and consolidate at national level a methodological and political body in the field of integrated territorial development, the reception of new populations and their overall economic, social and cultural integration. They proposed the creation of a national agency of territories to build new models of development and solidarity. I quote their proposal: "Today's great challenge is no longer to offer the tools to support development, but to make it within the framework of the new societal challenges, by promoting new ways of building policies and projects with the actors themselves, while at the same time generating their individual commitment as that of their organisations and associations" – I am thinking of elected officials, socio-professionals, citizens. "It's about," continues the text, "providing equal opportunities for all territories, fostering relationships and dynamics between cities and countryside, facilitating the emergence of new tools and services in the territories, encouraging human energies and innovations that cause and allow real dynamics. The added value of a national agency of the territories and, within it, of a national pole of territorial engineering lies, in our view, in the strong political signal of a vision of spatial planning balanced between metropolises and rurality; the creation of a network tool, in line with republican decentralization and the necessary involvement of actors on the ground; a function as a national resource centre, thinking and facilitating its access; a laboratory function for local development and innovation; optimisation of resources and shared ownership by co-financers – state, regions, departments, inter-communities, municipalities" – and other bodies, such as the Caisse des dépôts, could be added; "increased recognition for access to European funds". The State has never responded to this offer of work, despite the desire expressed by the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories. I should like to welcome the present proposal as co-initiator, when I chaired the Allier General Council, of the work on the concept of new rural areas, which led to the creation of the national association Nouvelles ruralités. This approach is supported by many departments, but also by 31 national associations, by citizens, by the economic world and by journalists, experts and scientists, including Christophe Guilluy, quoted in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. Many elected representatives also support the project, including some of you, ladies and gentlemen. I should be particularly pleased with such an initiative that I have just called on the Government, as well as all of you, to set up a working group to draft a policy and programming bill for rural areas, small and medium-sized cities. While, at first glance, the idea of the text seems to be interesting, a few questions are soon to be asked. What about the city's current policies, such as the ANRU? Would the actions carried out within this framework be carried out by the new agency? What about the means dedicated to rural life? Would a true rural policy be implemented, including a law of orientation and programming to carry it and to guarantee multi-annual envelopes? And what about the governance of the agency? Very quickly, we realize that we are presented here with a tool of which we do not know what it would be done or how it would work: we put the plow before the ox! Prior to such an approach, the State must equip itself with the means to support the projects of the territories, and provide the means to ensure equity and cohesion between them by committing itself in the long term. An agency must accompany the implementation of a structural policy based on a national spatial planning strategy with the necessary resources, in order to ensure equality between rural and urban citizens, for example through access to essential services, such as the right to digital for all, at the same cost; real reciprocity between metropolises and rural territories, which I do not oppose, of course; a fair distribution of resources and allocations between territories; involvement of the living forces in the bottom-up development of land and development projects; the development of projects in rural areas in the same way as those in metropolitan areas. I would stress this last point: it is time to fight against the feeling of abandonment of rural people and to respond to the desire of many of our compatriots to campaign. There is an urgent need to identify and encourage the new economic and social functions of the territories. It is essential that rural areas, small and medium-sized cities, can benefit from a structural policy of the State, which covers all their problems and responds to the issues related to housing, which we cannot talk about without mentioning aids for housing or rehabilitation, as well as services such as health, education, mobility and digitalisation. Economic challenges must also be addressed. What can be the economic irrigation of metropolitan areas to rural areas? What can be the functions of these territories, especially in a job-rich economic, energy and ecological transition? It is also necessary to respond to the challenges of living together, to innovate in the development and support of services, social, cultural, associative and leisure activities: a real project. These issues are also common in engineering. In cities and metropolises, the concentrated means allow always to have a service, a cabinet that imagines the city of tomorrow. In rural areas, we have less of this culture, but above all, we do not have the means of such an engineering essential to define a long-term development vision, an engineering that is not only technical, but also and above all forward-looking and strategic. Nor can we speak of equity for rural areas without working on the energy sector; on the agricultural and agri-food sectors; on new trades, tomorrow's trades and training; on digital development, whether it is linked to economic development or to medicine to name but a few; on the need for a reindustrialization rethought, modernised, based on the innovation already present. These are some of the bases for thinking about my proposal for a policy and programming law for rural areas, small and medium-sized cities. We need to work on defining the major issues for rural life, in a profound change in society. We need to analyse the means that are dedicated or to dedicate to rural and urban areas. We need to rebalance the balance of forces and resources vis-à-vis metropolises that benefit from greater attractiveness and concentrate human and financial resources. Rural areas must now be able to benefit from tools comparable to those in cities and cities. Just as we are talking about city politics, we have to talk about rural politics. Just as we talk about metropolises, we have to talk about small and medium-sized cities. Metropolises have a responsibility towards rural areas, which some call interstitial – that is to say, the consideration they are given. The concept that the wealth produced in the metropolises is sufficient to irrigate these territories is inoperative. Moreover, the report on the dynamics of employment in the metropolitan areas and the surrounding territories shows that, while the metropolitan dynamics are obvious, their effect of training, which is widely theorized, is not shown everywhere. We could support this bill aimed at creating a forum for territorial planning – a word that we prefer rather than a word of cohesion – in a constructive and participatory spirit, in a process of gathering on this essential issue of the balance of our territories, if it were to implement a real global project for our territories and if it would make it possible to bring the State's interventions into line with the challenges of the twenty-first century. But an agency that claims the cohesion of the territories must not be an extra thing, a technocratic body without any means. It is concrete that the territories need, operational, coherent public policies and means to undertake, develop and innovate. Today, the work is not taken by the right end, as we talk about tools before talking about a vision, projects and means for the territories. That is why we will abstain from this proposal, which, however, has the merit of highlighting problems that have so far been far from having been answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u274	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u275	However vague it may be, we do not necessarily reject the principle of this bill, nor even its general idea of creating a national agency for the cohesion of the territories, so that they develop more harmoniously, in particular by ensuring that the territorial divides that cross our country are addressed. On the contrary, we even have specific proposals on the subject for you. However, it is surprising, in view of the very ambitious explanatory statement, to see the entire content of this text referred to a decree. Article 2 of your bill is tantamount to saying that the parliamentarians who imagined it were struck by a bright idea, but that they decided to rely on the Council of State to clarify it. According to the terms of this article, which has at least the merit of being short: "A decree in the Council of State determines the organization and operation of this agency, as well as its tasks, the conditions under which it exercises them and the constitution of its revenues". Another wording would have been possible: "A decree in the Council of State determines everything". Colleagues, if you set up an agency without specifying how it works, how it works, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is. That the details of the order should be entrusted to him, is a common thing; Here, it's all the content of the text that he would inherit. There is clearly a method problem. In July, the Government announced the creation of a new agency, without saying anything about the relationship with existing agencies. And at the same time, as you like to say, you are announcing a quarter reduction of staff, particularly at CEREMA – the centre of studies and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and development – whose employees of the management of Île-de-France have learned by email that it will close, have learned by email that their jobs will be abolished. I don't know if you realize the violence it is! As a result of employee mobilization, the closure was suspended, leaving doubt as to the nature of the posts to be abolished. Then comes a proposal for a law which the Republic is in the process of abolishing all the articles in committee and which is likely to be postponed today. These are not serious frameworks for parliamentary debate. At the very least, we should discuss the relationship this new agency would have with CEREMA or the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of the Territories – the CGET. Before I turn to our proposals on spatial planning, I am still going to stop for a moment with the explanatory memorandum. General in his remarks, however, he acknowledges the existence of territories abandoned by the Republic, both in rural France and in urban France; But it does not say clearly enough which Republic is cruelly lacking in those who feel abandoned by it: it is the Social Republic that has disappeared, and the reduction of transport networks such as medical deserts does not result from an operation of the Holy Spirit. Public policies over the past 15 years, which have been obsessed with reducing public spending, have produced them. However, I strongly doubt that those who make up the majority have opposed the massive decline of the state, which has been the mark of the last three quinquennats and which seems to be one of the mantras of the one that begins and which the colleagues support at the initiative of this text. Deploring the territorial divide and supporting the general logic involved in metropolization is not possible. I will go even further: when our colleagues write that we have to create this agency – the text of which, I remind you, does not say anything – so that some citizens "do not feel that they have been abandoned by the Republic," they show a mixture of good feelings and naivety in the face of this problem. It is not a feeling that citizens in the working-class neighbourhoods or in peripheral rural areas feel, it is a reality that they live in. This reality largely depends on the unequal distribution of wealth. When you build a society for the richest, you concentrate the wealth at the top of the social pyramid, for the "first of the ropes", and you direct it to the geographical centers. I give you an example: Île-de-France is both the richest and most unequal region in France. Those who are abandoned by the Social Republic are the poorest regions, for example La Réunion, where I went with our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon; But they are also those who, a few kilometres away from an indecent wealth, are deprived of everything. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, this undeniable reality: territorial inequalities and social inequalities cannot be dissociated. France of the first of the ropes, it is not all France. France of the first of the ropes has only the 16th arrondissement of Paris as its horizon. We have from France a higher idea, with larger spaces. We are recognized in the country as the first opponents; But we are also, you have seen since the beginning of the legislature, the first "proposers".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u276	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u277	So, in order to fill the gap left by this text, I submit, on behalf of our group, some suggestions as to the forms that this national agency could take. Minister Jacques Mézard declared on 25 October that this project was "not yet completed". On the occasion of this bill, in the absence of visibility on the Government's ambitions, I propose the creation of a national agency for equality and ecological transition of the territories, which I will present in a few words. The ecological emergency implies the creation of an agency whose primary purpose would be to give concrete expression to the contemporary political duty: to ensure the rapid ecological transition. We consider that the equality of the territories, the founding principle of our Republic, contrary to their "cohesion", a vague notion of blurred governance, can only be achieved around the ecological question and its corollaries: spatial planning, transport and public services. The main mission of the agency would be to provide financial and technical support for the planned implementation of the city's national policies related to the deployment of public services in the underserved territories, so that equalization would finally be effective. It would also provide support for energy and environmental transition policies related to sustainable development and transport, including the sustainable development of city centres disfigured by the proliferation of shopping centres. The Agency's missions would include the development of citizen participation and the association of local representatives in the development of policies and programmes. Participatory democracy and consultation are inseparable from the ecological transition. This must prevent the multiplication of large unnecessary projects driven by short-sighted interests: between EuropaCity, Val Tolosa or Notre-Dame-des-Landes, there are no shortage of examples! In addition to its primary technical support tasks, corresponding to the functions of a public research office, the agency will also be able to finance all or part of the operations of the local authorities in difficulty, as well as to ensure their control of the works. There is no question of creating a new gas plant, meaningless and missionless. I have already mentioned the case of CEREMA and allow me to return to it for a moment, as the consequences of policies aimed at the fall of the state are visible there. Its Director General resigned on Monday, December 4, two months after its president. The situation of CEREMA, without President or Director-General, is now the responsibility of the Government and of the Government alone. Take the measure! When the hurricane struck Saint-Martin, it was the reactivity of this organization that immediately sent a public expert to assess the damage on the roads. A private study office, driven by financial interests, could have said that the entire road network needed to be rebuilt. No private study office will be able to replace this sense of government and the general interest that drives our public agencies. Interregional road management is also affected by budget cuts that endanger its ability to carry out its missions. Once again, the parliamentary majority and the Government orchestrate the backwardness of the State and methodically destroy public engineering. When you specify your national agency project, do not deprive us of such valuable tools. When I read in the explanatory memorandum that communities "can't expect everything from the state" and that partnership logic must be fostered, I can't help but see the Trojan horse of public-private partnerships there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u278	But not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u279	These partnerships, sold for their effectiveness, have shown above all their ability to produce disastrous services at exorbitant costs. We propose to rely in our agency on existing structures, in order to better coordinate them. This agency will have to operate on the territory at a departmental or at most regional level, following the model of regional health agencies. The resources allocated to its services will have to be commensurate with the increase in the tasks to be performed in order to best support the communities. The State, for its part, will contribute financially, regulatoryly, but also technically, by allocating to the Agency an envelope of time spent using with its public institutions and local authorities – CEREMA could thus intervene without cost to the communities. The Agency will be able to apply directly to public institutions by carrying out public engineering services without competition. When the State is able to do so, it must put itself at the service of the territories. The resources of these institutions must be preserved and developed, so that the Agency can draw on their expertise and technical expertise without degrading their tasks already carried out on behalf of the State. We are also considering the allocation of taxes on the basis of the polluter pays principle, in line with the Agency's tasks. The Agency will have to have a board of directors in which the State, local and regional authorities and all the public actors identified for its tasks will be represented; The scientific community and the voluntary sector will have to work with the scientific council of the new institution. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is our proposal for a new national agency for the equality and ecological transition of the territories. Social equality and ecology at heart, we have a project for the social and ecological Republic which will have to be, sooner or later, that of our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u280	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u281	Tonight, the debate on territorial inequalities is again at the forefront. Our first challenge is to reconcile territories, promote their success, ensure the mobility of all and get out of the feeling of downgrading. On 17 July 2017, in the Senate, the President of the Republic launched the National Conference of Territories, which aims to make the fight against territorial divides a national priority through a concerted approach between the State, all local authorities and representatives of the main associations of local elected representatives. The stakes of the Conference are to combat the feeling of relegation sometimes expressed in rural areas, to respond to the challenges of new rural areas and to show that the countryside is an area of opportunity that fully participates in the development of France. Are all French territories equal? That is the real question. France does not escape the phenomenon of metropolisation: the fifteen metropolises with more than 500,000 inhabitants account for 40% of the population, and 50% of the growth was achieved in the metropolises between 2005 and 2015. The rise in power of the metropolises registered in a European dynamic seems inevitable. However, it must not be done at the expense of peri-urban and rural territories. However, territorial divides have increased in recent years. Consequently, the observation is that of the existence of a two-speed France, that of the metropolises and that of ruralness, not to mention, of course, the small and medium-sized peripheral cities. The territories that concentrate on employment, security, urban planning and transport are therefore likely to remain out of line with economic improvement and their inhabitants are thus even more marginalized. What are the tools to reduce inequalities between territories? The President and the Government had set themselves a goal: to ensure that all the territories of the Republic had the same chance to succeed. In front of the National Conference of Territories, the President announced the establishment of a national agency for territorial cohesion. One of the objectives that the President of the Republic has assigned to this agency is to become an instrument facilitating access to new means of engineering, administrative simplification and financing for local authorities who often face real difficulties in carrying out their projects because of lack of resources. Its aim is to implement a proactive policy of redressing inequalities and accessibility to services throughout the territories. According to all prospective studies, the phenomenon of metropolization should continue with the risk of dropping out for rural areas – increased risks due to the ageing of the population in these areas. This agency would thus make it possible to speed up the reduction of territorial inequalities. It is important to recall that the Government has been working since last summer to present a successful project, a tool facilitating the action of our local authorities, while the UAI group wants the creation of an agency for the cohesion of the territories in emergency, without even defining the precise modalities of financing or organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u282	No, we've been working on it for years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We, the Republic on the move, believe that it is wiser to await the final conclusions of the National Conference of Territories; We will then be able to draw lessons and concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u284	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u285	First of all, I would like to thank Philippe Vigier, whose competence in spatial planning policy has not escaped anyone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u286	Right! He could make an excellent opening minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u287	... to propose to us a text which allows us to speak in this Chamber of the necessary equality of opportunity to be given to all the territories of the Republic which make up our country. Rurality is worth stopping there; It deserves a debate, and we will take the necessary time. As I have the opportunity to say often in this House, our rural life suffers. Of course, Mr Vigier, as Mr Vigier pointed out, France from the cities should not be manicenely opposed to France from the countryside. But you have to be honest: many communities are not yet playing their part, in any case the one to which they might claim. A recent study by the Office of the Commissioner-General for Territorial Equality states that if cities create jobs at home, they do not have an effect on the territories around them. I think it's serious: beyond budgetary problems, it's important for communities to be supportive of each other – the countryside of the metropolises, and the metropolises of all of our municipalities. Of course, we must be fair and recognize that much has been done in recent years, but priority has been given to the emergence of Greater Paris, the creation of metropolises and major urban renewal plans; At the same time, the rural territories, which faced many difficulties, felt abandoned and sacrificed, and did not fail to tell us this at the last elections. As the bill points out, all the issues are now cross-cutting. They concern agriculture, of course, because farmers struggle to live from the fruits of their work, they are the basis of rural areas, and all the small communes stand out. But beyond agriculture, they also affect public services, with the closure of post offices, gendarmerie barracks and school classes. Of course we have to change and adapt things. In departments that lose many students, the municipalities can no longer be allowed to build schools without the mayors having a visibility over several years. Our campaigns also face the problem of access to care: it is now very difficult to find a doctor there; Worse, according to a survey commissioned by the College of Physicians, 63% of students and 60% of young doctors simply do not plan to move to rural areas – not because they would be less good than elsewhere, but because of the high availability requirements that today's doctors, like the rest of society, no longer accept. There is also the delay in the deployment of fiber optics. Which minister, for many years, hasn't said it was his priority? Which minister did not announce that by the end of the following year, we would already see a number of networks deploy? Unfortunately, no one believes in these promises where coverage is lacking. I was earlier in a telephone connection with a company in my constituency, which has a few employees; Because it does not benefit from fiber optics, it is obliged to ask for a dedicated network, in air, which costs it, for a few hundred meters, 12,000 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u288	Of course! You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u289	It's no longer tenable! It's not equal opportunities! The technological gap also concerns mobile telephony. Far from having 3G or 4G, many rural communes are still not covered at all, apart from a point in their territory which justifies that they are precisely described as "covered". Of course, the "France Mobile" platform is interesting, but it struggles to obtain results from operators. I have heard what you said, minister: know that we will obviously be at your side to move operators forward throughout the national territory. Our campaigns need the state to take care of them. Equality of territories is not equal treatment and a series of contracts deserve to be reserved for rural areas. Thus, the poles of rural excellence were a good policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u290	Yes, it worked well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u291	I believe that all departments, regardless of their president's political commitment, are now finding that where there was a pole, there was job creation. But the first decisions of the new government are not entirely in the right direction. Much has already been said, but I would like to go back to several points. The increase in fuel prices – the area may seem annoyance, since it does not involve heavy investment or contract-making – will hit the rural world more than the cities because rural people need to take their cars every morning to go to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u292	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u293	The abolition of the zero-rate loan in small towns and rural areas, which is included in the finance bill, is a great injustice. How can we allow young people to buy their homes or renovate their homes if we no longer have these aids? The Minister of Transport's statements on the basis of mobility – the TGV would serve too many stations, with 230 TGV stations causing the SNCF's €45 billion deficit – are not serious. Finally, the elected representatives of the rural communes, who have suffered the fall of the endowments in recent years, fear the consequences of the abolition of the housing tax, and they have not returned really reassured from the congress of the mayors of France. It is therefore in this context of distrust that Philippe Vigier's proposal for a law, which aims to create a national agency for the cohesion of the territories, arrives. Undoubtedly, we largely share the observation that is made. This is what led the Republican group to launch a mission called "France des territoires", under the responsibility of Damien Abad and Guillaume Peltier. Every time we move around our ridings, we see the truth of the words that each one of us has here. This bill therefore has its place, but it is important that the agency it aims to create is not just a tool. We must consider not only the container, but also the content that we need to debate – hence the amendments that we have tabled. In our view, the debate that is taking place must define the three pillars of this agency. First of all, its missions: for my part, I hope that, like the ANRU has done for the suburbs of the cities, it will be able to finance massively and decisively major projects to revitalize our territories. The second point is its governance: the agency must be managed by elected representatives, mainly rural. Last but not least, it must be adequately funded. It is not necessary to create an umpteenth agency which, from the year following its creation, will seek funding from another structure, putting it at risk – everyone will have understood it. In a word, we do not want to create an umpteenth public institution in addition to all the others, but we want to launch a debate so that rural people can find the means to express themselves. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I would like to say my optimism: our campaigns include talented men and women, who are not afraid to fight, who are not afraid to commit to their territory. I observe with interest families, tired of the stress and congestion of big cities, choose to settle in our villages. I see young people active, proud of their identity, proud of their roots, building their professional lives, investing, starting their businesses in rural areas. For all of them, we must open the debate so that this national agency of territorial cohesion can find its perfect usefulness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u294	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u295	I would like to thank our colleagues in the IDU, Action and Independent Group for this bill, which allows national representation to outline the action that we all want to take in favour of territorial cohesion. Our territories face multiple emergencies: the territorial, digital and medical divide; the large lack of housing in some of them, where demand is growing. All these factors increase inequalities and complicate the lives of many French households. Our rural, peri-urban and urban areas require a rebalancing, not to break the dynamics of the cities but to ensure that this dynamic benefits all. Our goal is for all the territories of the Republic to have the same chance of success. We must therefore reinvest, as parliamentarians, the field of rurality, local and regional authorities and metropolitan areas. The members of the MODEM and related group called for the establishment of a territorial transition strategy for medium-sized cities and rural areas, in cooperation with all relevant actors. This strategy would form part of a broader action plan to reduce territorial divides. Many strategic projects for these areas have already been initiated since the beginning of this legislature. First, in accordance with the 2018 Finance Bill, Emmanuel Macron reminded the Congress of Mayors of the stability of financial assistance to local authorities for 2018. It is committed to maintaining this stability throughout the quinquennium. The majority is also committed to bridging the digital divide, with the goal of achieving broadband for all by 2020 and broadband by 2022, and aims to combat medical desertification by doubling health homes in rural areas. Finally, we want to relaunch the construction of housing, especially in tense areas: the aim of the housing strategy is to create a supply shock in order to accelerate the supply of housing in areas where demand is high, in large cities and metropolitan areas. Let us therefore give time to the Government, colleagues of the UAI Group, to carry out all these projects: they will contribute to the valorisation of the territories and have the merit of involving all the stakeholders. For you know, Mr. Rapporteur, that the National Conference of Territories, launched in July in the Senate, is intended to complement these first steps undertaken by the Government, so that local and regional authorities are involved in all decisions that affect them. In keeping with the promise to eliminate territorial inequalities and to eliminate the feeling of abandonment of certain territories made during the presidential campaign, the President of the Republic called for the creation of an agency to work directly with regions and communities. This new agency must first and foremost be at their service. The aim will be to develop an effective facility that facilitates access to new engineering facilities. Not all communities have the same tools and resources, either in terms of administrative simplification or in terms of funding: local and regional authorities outside metropolitan areas do not always have the necessary resources to carry out their projects. As the President of the Republic wishes, therefore, appropriate responses must be provided to the Territories. We commend him for his willingness to adjust standards to the local realities to which they apply. Consultation with the communities involved in the Conference of the Territories is therefore of paramount importance. The development of this future national agency for the cohesion of the territories must meet two objectives: on the one hand, to meet the needs of the territories; On the other hand, find its place in the current institutional landscape in order not to create an umpteenth agency whose powers would be limited. In particular, it is necessary to examine the relationship of this new agency with the ANRU and the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories. What will be his means, his missions and his skills? These are questions that cannot be answered with a bill discussed in the context of a parliamentary niche, but only after a successful, trans-party reflection, led by all political groups and all stakeholders. The conference will discuss a wide range of issues, including digital issues, health issues and rural issues, including the revitalization of towns. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the adoption of an amendment by our group, in favour of small shops in town centres and town centres, as part of the review of the finance bill for 2018. I am pleased that the national representation has thus sent a positive signal to downtown businesses and to the most fragile territories. These tools will need to be complemented by other mechanisms that will need to be built with the Government. We must act quickly, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, but that must not prevent us from acting in a concerted manner. This consultation should enable us to develop new solutions together. For several years, local elected officials have seen a profound change in their institutional and financial environment, with the abolition of the business tax and its replacement by several new local or national taxes; the profound evolution of our institutional map, with the NOTRE law, which led to the evolution of the intercommunal map; the reduction in the number of regions or the recent abolition of the housing tax by a mechanism of relief. It was therefore important not to impose on those elected representatives a new territorial reform, which would be ill-accepted and misunderstood. The objective of the Conference of Territories is thus to build a pact of trust between local authorities and the State. How would we establish this trust if we short-circuited the work that has been under way since July? Of course, we understand the reasons for this bill, because we are particularly concerned about the many emergencies that local elected officials are facing. We share with you the love of our territories and the desire that everyone can enjoy the same dynamism. Mr rapporteur, all the actors involved have mobilized: from representatives of local and regional authorities, representatives of Parliament, representatives of existing territorial consultation bodies, to members of the Government. This text is, in fact, too early. Let us wait a few more days, ladies and gentlemen: the Conference of the Territories will deliver its conclusions in mid-December, the wait will not be very long!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u296	We can't wait any longer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u297	I'm sure you'll hold on until then, Mr. Benoit: mid-December is next week! It is about the future of our territories. Let's provide them with an effective and efficient response. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen of the UAI Group, you will have understood that the MODEM and related groups will not vote for this bill, because the Conference of the Territories will lead to the creation, we hope and call for our wishes, of a national agency for the cohesion of the territories adapted to local and territorial realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u298	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u299	I naturally support this bill creating a national agency for territorial cohesion. As a member of the UDI group, Agir et indépendants, Philippe Vigier was kind enough to associate me with his project – because he has been working personally on this issue for many years. Secretary of State, you are a new and young member of the Government: I wish you to become as soon as possible full-time minister, in charge not only of the planning and cohesion of the territories, but also of the Plan – because we need not only a tool for cohesion of the territories, but also a tool for planning. Thirty years of decentralization laws have in fact completely disorganized the territories of France, in particular during the previous legislature, and some members of the La République en marche group who were then socialist or ecologist MPs have actively contributed to this disorganisation. I am thinking in the first place of the law of modernization of territorial public action and of affirmation of the metropolises, this MAPTAM law which showed that the old majority had only one priority: the metropolises, without vision and without overall coherence. Secondly, I am thinking of the reorganisation of the map of regions: some small regions have not been affected, others have been merged to form very large regions, such as the Grand Est region or the Hauts-de-France region.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u300	It's very good, the Greater East region!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u301	I am also thinking of the reform of the cantons, with the binominal vote for the elections to the departmental councils, which has favoured dense territories – i.e. urban ones – to the detriment of the rural territories which, having fewer departmental councillors, are less well represented than before. Finally, I am thinking of this famous NOTRe law by which the former government has explicitly shown that it has no vision of intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u302	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u303	I would remind you that 30 minutes away you can have a metropolis of 500,000 inhabitants, an intercommunality of 15,000 inhabitants and an average city of 40,000 or 50,000 inhabitants! Secretary of State, you joined the Government six months ago: you must reaffirm a vision, define a role for each of the territories. Let us take the example of Brittany: it has three metropolises, Brest, Rennes and Nantes – since everyone knows that Nantes is in Brittany, this region with five departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u304	Bravo! At last a sensible word!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u305	Brittany also has a network of medium-sized towns that irrigate rural areas: I will mention Fougères, Saint-Malo, Lamballe, Saint-Brieuc, Loudéac, Pontivy, Guingamp, Morlaix, Quimper, Lorient, Vannes, Redon, Vitré!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u306	You're forgetting Quimperlé!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u307	The Government must understand that the future national cohesion agency of the territories must give a true definition of these three levels: the metropolises, the network of medium-sized cities, and the rural territories. This is a major issue. We, members of the UAI Group, are resolutely and deeply European, Secretary of State. We are also decentralizers: we are in favour of subsidiarity. That is why we aspire to give strength to the regions. That seems to us to be crucial. At the forefront of the problems you will have to tackle, Secretary of State, if you are appointed as I wish Minister or Commissioner for the Plan, in addition to the implementation of this national agency of territorial cohesion, there is the reorganization of the territories. It will be necessary to act quickly, and to do so, under the authority of the prefects of the regions, with the prefects of the département, with the sub-prefects of borough, a global reflection on the organization of the services of the state in the regions, in the departments and, in the deepest of the territories, in the boroughs. You will also have to ensure, beyond the reorganization of the State services, that justice is present in the territories, that there are agencies of La Poste and counters of the SNCF, public finance centres, gendarmerie, buralists, doctors to maintain an offer of care. All this is a matter of territorial cohesion. A city like Rennes has the motorway, the railway network, the airport, the fifth generation of the mobile telephone network, internet; and thirty minutes by car from there, you don't have the railway, no doctor, no public services!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u308	We have to hire civil servants!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u309	If you look carefully at the results of the elections, you will find that in these territories, government parties only receive 30% to 40% of the votes. This is how we find ourselves with deputies who come to the National Assembly dressed in a sports suit, or who profess extremist opinions! And that we cannot accept! [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] Mr Secretary of State, there is an urgent need for action. That is why it is necessary to adopt Philippe Vigier's bill – which would also make him an excellent minister for spatial planning. That would never be just one more minister and, since the whole range of democratic parties is represented in the Government with the exception of the IDU, that would be a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u310	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u311	Go fast, yes, rush, no. It is necessary to take the time to do well, as the hopes raised, it is well felt in this Chamber, by the national cohesion agency of the territories announced by the President of the Republic, are numerous. To reflect on the format of the structure and its organization for a light, fluid rendering is to have confidence in the words of the President of the Republic and to ensure that the level of demand corresponds to the expectations and reality of the field. It is out of the question of participating in the creation of a new gas plant: it is indeed a question of defining the intervention of the State services in matters of territorial intelligence. Our territories are all rich. Beyond our metropolises, our small towns, our towns and our rural areas are also potential for growth. The strategist state, which does not mean decision-making at all points of local projects, must give them more weight. The strengthening of public action on the territory would benefit the development of the rural world, while creating bridges with the metropolises and not by opposing them. Let the state take stock of its human and economic resources in order to mobilize its resources to the best possible extent. Housing, energy transition, transport, economic attractiveness of the territories: the answers must be adapted to the problems of each of them. These are all issues that could be addressed by this agency by working directly with regions, departments and inter-communities, with a view to simplifying and implementing spatial planning policies more effectively. In order to do so, it is necessary to define the contours of this agency before creating it, i.e. its statutes, its organisational and operational arrangements. Reorganizing services takes time and can only be done on the basis of a methodical and faithful diagnosis of what the local authorities want to implement, without preconceived ideas. This also requires a review of existing engineering tools. Only then could the territorial intervention of the State be redefined, which provides its support to the territories in their plurality, and to the actors in their diversity, while guaranteeing a national strategy. Government officials who know and live in our territories, who are with elected officials and communities every day, would of course be at the centre of the scheme. They could act as real relays, project leaders, creating virtuous synergies. It will be useful to define in more detail its geographical and thematic intervention in order to avoid the new structure being an empty shell. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us act, but let us not rush. In the idea of an exchange of views generated by this bill, let us first agree on the findings, then on the issues, give meaning to our ideas and let us phosphor together, yes, to help the Government, which will find the modalities for the creation of this new entity. Let's move on to the idea of an agency that would be a complete, operational and adaptable toolbox to serve our territories. That's the important thing. You said in committee, Mr. Vigier, that it is urgent to move quickly. I think it's especially important to think first together, don't you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u313	It's high-level!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u314	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u315	The prospect of the creation of a national agency for the cohesion of the territories is a subject that cannot leave anyone indifferent, but raises some questions. It must be noted that, despite numerous initiatives, notably from the Office of the Commissioner-General for Equality of Territories and before it the DATAR – delegation to spatial planning and regional action – territorial inequalities remain and others are widening, endangering the cohesion of the territories and, beyond that, the cohesion of the national territory. As such, Philippe Vigier's proposal is not without interest. His commitment to land-use planning issues is well known and I do not think that he can be tried for intent, as was heard during the committee's examination of this text. My colleague's intention is commendable. The observation on which his initiative is based is shared with regard to the widening fracture between peripheral France and that of the metropolises. And I would like to reiterate that it is a reality that this observation illuminates with a raw light, not a feeling or a feeling of abandonment as can be heard here or there. But several areas of shadow remain and should be clarified. In my view, a decree in the Council of State cannot be suspended in order, as provided for in article 2, to determine "the organization and operation of this agency, and its tasks, the conditions under which it exercises them and the creation of its revenues". That should be clarified by your legislation, my dear colleague. The question of means is central and the text should be clear on this point to avoid yet another disillusionment. What human and material means to deal effectively tomorrow with subjects as different as housing, medical desertification, mobility or very high speed? The question of human means logically calls for the articulation with the bodies already existing: I am thinking of CEREMA, in full turmoil in recent weeks, the CGET, but also the deconcentrated services of the State or what remains of ATSAT – the technical assistance of the State for reasons of solidarity and spatial planning. In all logical terms, two scenarios would be faced: either the new agency would unite these existing structures, or it would integrate them; But in both cases this could not be done without a very upstream reflection, except to add confusion in the institutional landscape after the creation of this agency – which, I am sure, is not the objective pursued. Finally, a word about engineering, which would undoubtedly be the main mission of the future agency, to remind us that the situation is very different in different territories and that the communities have not remained inactive, for many have taken initiatives. This is particularly the case for the departments, which have created technical agencies whose competence is recognized, such as the Cantal, which have invested in subjects as varied as water resources, the energy performance of buildings, and also the uses and the digital school. Hence the need to clarify, again, the link between this future agency and the resources already deployed on the ground. If the principle of mobilising human and financial resources through an agency is acceptable and even welcome, the shadow zones I have mentioned should be removed in order to avoid the duplication trap or, worse still, to deliver a gas plant that would add confusion without providing real services to the territories. It is in this spirit that we have tabled a number of amendments in the Republican Group. This requirement of consistency applies to this bill, Mr. Secretary of State, as it will be worth tomorrow for the project that the Government is considering. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I cannot conclude without recalling that, beyond the question of a new development tool, it is necessary to ensure that, when the contractors are the communities on the outskirts of the metropolises, whether they are rural departments or the EPCIs, they can retain the means to act and invest, which calls for the question of their resources, subject to a shouting and painful topicality with regard to these rural departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u316	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u317	A national agency for territorial cohesion? Why not? It is difficult not to agree with the expectations of this bill. Who would not subscribe to the state of affairs which it draws up concerning, in particular, our medium-sized cities and our villages? Who would dispute that many of our city centres are dying? Who would not approve of a bold policy for, I quote, a "harmonious development of the territories"? So, will you tell me? So, as always in our good country of France, when there is a problem, we create a new structure – a commission, a steering committee, a "machin", would have said a famous man... Without questioning what already exists, without questioning the responsibilities, the causes of this situation that so many of our compatriots who do not have the chance to live in this France that benefits from globalization, this France pampered by our leaders – first of all because they live there – in short, that France that is on the right side of the barrier. Because there's a barrier. A barrier that separates two Frances, two worlds. On the one hand, Paris and a large handful of prosperous regional metropolises that offer opportunities even to those living in the suburbs, in the "neighbourhoods" as they say. On the other hand, the wretches, those who don't count for anything or much, the provincials...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u318	Stay polite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u319	... we remember during the election periods – yes, more than one Frenchman in two lives in a municipality of less than 10,000 inhabitants! - and look up, condescendingly. [["Ah! »on the benches of the REM group]] Sometimes, taking the train from home in Paris, I feel like I'm changing the universe. And that's what I blame most for the new power: to be so indifferent to small cities, to small people, and sometimes even arrogant, contemptuous, as a stranger to a whole France. Am I moving away from the bill we are studying today? I don't believe it, because that's the point. If we have to create an umpteenth agency while keeping the same way of working, the same way of governing, it will be of no use. So let's just say it. Because to overmany the generalities, to try to make believe that everyone, inhabitants of a village like a big metropolis, have their problems that this agency could allow to "overtake" – that is the word chosen; Because you don't want to hurt anyone, you end up saying nothing. I do not doubt for a moment the goodwill of the authors of this bill. But it is in the silences of this text that we can measure its limits. No, our territories and their inhabitants are not confronted with the same "problems", to use the word used. Yes, some are better treated than others, some develop at the expense of others. Everyone knows this well: decentralization has seen the regional prefectures grow by literally suffocating the surrounding cities. French centralism has been replicated at the regional level. Our leaders are centralizers, jacobins to the end of the nails. Therefore, to make such an agency at the risk of a new gas plant, as has been said several times this afternoon, it must not – but I fear it unfortunately – be a new face of parisianism at work, a new tool in the hands of our technocracy. Even more than resources, and it lacks them, France of medium-sized towns and villages needs consideration, I said, but also autonomy. She needs us to trust her, stop holding her on a leash, give her more freedom. Our 36600 communes are an asset, a strength. If there is to be an agency, the local authorities and their elected representatives must have their full place there. They must be heard, listened to and respected. It is not only good beak of Paris, but it is not as good beak as regional metropolises. We think, we think also in our small cities, in this France from below, in this France far away, so far away from the gildings of the Republic, in this France that will no longer accept that we forget it, that we neglect it, that we abandon it... agency or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u320	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u321	Yes, we need a territorial cohesion agency. But not in this way, not by speeding up the agenda. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] We need an agency of territorial cohesion because today over-metropolisation has become an international problem, not simply French. We cannot analyse what is happening in Catalonia, Lombardy or Veneto if we do not consider that this phenomenon of over-metropolisation, that is to say, of accentuation of the concentration of wealth on a territory, explains that it no longer wants to pay for the poor territories and wants to secede. We also see this in our country, during the elections: the protestary and extreme votes are seen rather outside the metropolises, of course. This is also the lesson we must learn from Donald Trump's election: it was the campaigns that voted against the cities. It is for these reasons that a territorial cohesion agency is needed. No less than 80% of the jobs created in France in the private sector since 2009 have been in metropolises!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u322	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u323	The idea dates back to 1982: Mitterrand did believe that the country should be decentralized, that Paris could not be the only place to create wealth and jobs. This has been quite successful since today it is about 20 cities that create employment in our country. Let us pursue this ideal! Today, there is no need to decentralize from the national capital, we must do so from the regional capitals! That is at stake in the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u324	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u325	But your bill does not rule out this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u326	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u327	I heard earlier a counter-truth about proposals that I could have made. The question is: what should be the contours of this agency? Do we think that the intermediate territories must always be hung up on the metropolises? Should we continue to think of the issue as you have done, ladies and gentlemen, for so many years, that is, in terms of the runoff of rich beings on poor beings? I don't believe in runoff for individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u328	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u329	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I do not believe that any more with regard to the territories. I said exactly the opposite, so next time, let me talk instead of trying to misinterpret my words. Today, this agency must accompany, if I dare say a posteriori, the groupings of communities of communes, in the context of a fairly strong reform of the poles of territorial and rural balance – PETR. Of course, the reform of these PETRs must also be accompanied by new public and private governance. Why not think, moreover, of a fusion of PETRs and development councils? In Provence, we did this between Avignon, Arles and Nîmes with regard to the digital cultural sector, and that, I insist, outside the Montpellieran and Marseille metropolises. It is necessary to identify a sector of activity, not to reproduce, beside the metropolises, mini-metropolies doing a little of everything, transport and culture! We heard earlier: people who want such a development think only in administrative terms. I am talking about economics: at some point we have to find channels in our territories to specify them, "bander" them, to make them truly very strong brands.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u330	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u331	In short, I do not want to be too long: this bill is not mature either in substance or in form. Its maturation will only benefit from a referral to committee: we will try to improve it a little. We will also follow the agenda of the National Conference of Territories, because it is indeed the one that is important: there is no point in going faster than music. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all going to the same place. I am delighted to learn that you no longer believe in runoff, even though you have defended it for a long time, and still recently, for both natural persons and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u332	I never defended him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u333	In my view, this debate must be decided now: yes, a new stage of decentralization is possible. The fact-finding mission of the Commission on Sustainable Development, which we are carrying out in parallel with the National Conference of Territories, must make it possible to amend this bill and to draw the contours of the national agency for the cohesion of the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Because yes, we believe that progress is and has always been the deconcentration of wealth and power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u334	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u335	The IUD, Act and Independent Group's bill has the merit of explicitly raising the question of territories in the National Assembly. We are all elected from a territory, sometimes very specific. In mountain areas, for example, where I am elected, public issues – mobility, health, digital, housing, tourism, agriculture, not to mention predators such as wolf or bear – necessarily arise in specific terms. However, it happens that each and every one of us hears, in his particular constituency, the same grunt of the territories. And it is up to us, parliamentarians, that this grunt does not turn into a sling of the territories. The new confidence pact between the State and the territories aims to release energies and initiatives in all the territories of the Republic. However, there is a risk: multi-speed development, which would be at the expense of the most difficult territories and which would have the effect of increasing already perceptible territorial divides. The bill to create a national agency for territorial cohesion is therefore one of the most important subjects of the legislature, without providing it with an institutional response commensurate with its challenges. While the objective is commendable, both in form and substance, the means are insufficient. On the form, the proposed law intends to create a public institution that would replace the various State windows that are the interlocutors of the territories. However, they do not only need a window: they aspire to design and implement development projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u336	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u337	The national agency must be the place where the necessary conditions will be created for the consultation, the study and the implementation of the proposals, making available to local actors all the necessary public engineering. The implementation of a national plan may be necessary, but the implementation of territorial projects, which would be the result of local consultation, is essential. Is it not possible for territorial projects screened by a national agency under the authority of the State to become, in one way or another, State projects, at the expense of local freedoms? Should a national agency for the territories be required, should it not take the form of an independent authority, within which the State, but also the regions, departments, municipalities, EPCIs and private partners would be fairly represented? The establishment of this institution would thus enable the various projects to be carried out in full confidence between the State and the communities. On the substance, the bill intends to establish a public industrial and commercial establishment. To contribute to the harmonious development of the territories and to accompany their demographic, digital and environmental transition is a mission of general interest which cannot be reduced to industrial and commercial activity. By ensuring the cohesion of the territories, i.e. their harmonious, balanced and complementary developments, the national agency will guarantee the conjugation of two fundamental principles: the free administration of territorial authorities and the equality of territories. The legislator could therefore do much more than create a new window, for which a simple decree would suffice: to recognize the principle of territorial interdependence. The territories of the Republic share a common destiny: none can develop sustainably at the expense of a neighbour. For example, the de-enclavement of the Hautes-Alpes benefits from the congestion of the nearby metropolises. In concrete terms, the national agency for the cohesion of the territories could ensure the interconnection between the various projects emanating from it. The coordination of the various territorial projects, designed at the initiative of local elected representatives, is not spontaneous. One of the Agency's tasks could be to put projects in perspective, to anticipate imbalances and to intervene ahead of their realization: the national agency for the cohesion of the territories will be the agency of the connection of the territories. Finally, not all territories enjoy the same financial power. At the opening of the National Conference of Territories, the President of the Republic invited us to promote equal opportunities for the Territories. The national agency will therefore also have to ensure, with complete independence, a certain financial equalization between the latter. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] If the legislator could entrust the guarantee of the principle of solidarity of the territories to this national agency, we would contribute sustainably and surely to the cohesion of the entire nation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u338	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u339	A few words to answer the various speakers. First of all, the debate is rich. He was, it seems to me, indispensable. Mr. Secretary of State, he offers at least the opportunity for national representation to deal with this issue. [["That's right! » on the benches of the UAI group]] I have not yet seen the parliamentarians speak in the famous National Conference of Territories. And the fact that they are no longer at the head of local executive bodies risks rendering the message they will deliver to Cahors a little empty. At least the tabling of this bill will have allowed this afternoon to initiate this debate. Mr Secretary of State, as Thierry Benoit said very well, I hope that your powers will be as broad as possible and that you will be directly attached to the Prime Minister. You understand why I wrote it this way: we know where arbitrations are, that is to say to Bercy. Those who have a territorial experience of twenty years know that every time a policy is announced, the Gillette razor, not to one, nor to two, but to three blades comes into action! The president of the Committee on Sustainable Development experienced this a few weeks ago, when Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, sent a very nice letter to all those who had fought to have territories with positive energy...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u340	And for green growth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u341	[[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] ... to explain to them that everything was over, that the appropriations were going to dry up and that even the projects committed would not succeed. Secretary of State, I simply want to warn you against one thing, even if I imagine that your lucidity will not be taken in default. Ladies and gentlemen, my remarks are the result of an experience which may seem to be from another world, but which is unfortunately the experience acquired by those who, for some 20 years, have had the chance to exercise different mandates on their territory. Unfortunately, this experience has not changed for twenty years, whether the impetus comes from the left or the right – you have said it, Mr. Secretary of State, even though you are here for only six months; I tell you in my turn with great force, so as to remove a few pitfalls from your path. An example: Emmanuel Macron was sitting at the bench of ministers in 2015 when we were told that thanks to ARCEP, it would be extraordinary, 80% of the communes in France would be covered by 3G. Three years later, where are we? Ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen! I'm not telling you this to give you slippers! On the contrary, it is the result of an experience marked by too many unfulfilled words. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to invite you, as we come to the same conclusion with regard to digital issues, such as the problems related to housing, for which you are responsible, or those related to medical desertification and services to the population, to organise this coordination which the authors of this bill call for. If there is no coherence, no national will for coherence, there will be a dispersal on the territory. And when it's scattered, there's no efficiency. Now for twenty years, yes, things have been done, but scattered! I would like to say to Mrs Panot that I am pleased that she has withdrawn her motion to reject it beforehand. Well, you did, my dear colleague! In committee, you went so far as to propose an amendment to include in the title of the text the words of ecological transition, and I proposed that you retain it! So, dear colleague, when we promote teleworking with digital technology, is this not a good thing for the ecological transition? When telemedicine is promoted, isn't that a way to avoid travelling tens of miles to see a doctor?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u342	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u343	Is it or not, when we promote housing and urban renewal, we do not fight energy losses? You can see that we have incorporated these priorities into the issues of this bill. You said the project is vague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u344	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u345	You added that it is not tied, that nothing is known about the functioning of the agency or its revenues. I invite you, dear colleague, to read the text and the attached report again, because you will find a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u346	Read them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u347	I am quite pleased that you have withdrawn this motion of prior rejection because otherwise, you would have sanitized, I say well in front of the national representation the territorial divides. Because you would have considered that there are no difficulties in the territories! Fortunately, dear colleague, the withdrawal of this motion has prevented you from taking such a path. I thank Hervé Saulignac: we have a shared diagnosis, insisting first and foremost on equal opportunities between territories, of which we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very difficult to achieve. What needs to be done is to propose to all territories that they move on, connect, and provide detailed answers to the problems. As far as I'm concerned, I'm deeply decentralizing. The answer given to one place cannot be the same as to another, and special attention must always be paid. Our colleague pointed out that France at several speeds was already a reality: it did not date from yesterday! But until a few months ago he supported a government that could not be said to have brought a lot of solutions. I also thank Jean-Paul Dufrègne: by proposing a minimum of abstaining, he recalled the whole history of territorial cohesion, which started in Privas in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, many have said that we are moving too fast. But I heard, precisely in 2013, wonderful sentences, statements that everything was going to change: and four years later, what moved? A few separate contracts, this and there, on the territories! Uncoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u348	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u349	You asked that our approach be transparent: but of course! Together with my colleagues in the UAI Group, we do not claim to answer all the problems. It seems to me that they transcend all our sensitivities, that they affect all our constituencies and therefore all our fellow citizens. Intelligence would therefore command that we be able to unite to bring a true answer. Jean-Claude Leclabart spoke on behalf of La République en marche. First of all, I thank him for not taking up the remarks made in committee by some of his colleagues, who have given me the intention of stealing priority from the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u350	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u351	[[Smile]] It's lèse-majesté!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u352	Wait: we don't play in the same yard. I'm boxing in a featherweight, he's a heavyweight! Simply, as I said to the Secretary of State earlier, at least national representation must be able to contribute to this debate. Mr Secretary of State, you recalled the timetable that everyone knows, and said that you were going to create this agency, that it happens, that the stalls are there, that we need to define the modalities and the emergencies. I have noted that we share the same diagnosis, and also with all my colleagues. Then I warn you against one thing: if this agency is meant to solve all the problems, you will not succeed. That is why I tried to focus the debate around the four dimensions that I defined in the text. Thanks to Jean-Marie Sermier for his friendly remarks and his diagnosis there again shared. He knows, as Vincent Descoeur, who knows rural areas so well, that the amendments by the Republican Group and everything they have said in committee or in the general debate will be supported, in the name of collective intelligence superior to that intelligence, some of which imagine that the new world has a monopoly. Can't both the old and the new world come together to provide an answer to these ever-increasing territories that are suffering? You insisted on the issue of governance. I believe that both the governance and the way in which the Agency operates are provided for in the text. Nevertheless, I would point out that the Government can propose to adopt the bill, then amend the governance rules as it pleases and freeze funding. In this connection, you will have observed that, contrary to what some have said, the financing is very much in line with the text: there are the funds available under the ANRU, the more those that can be found at the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the more those that are part of the investment programme for the future, particularly in the digital field, which can be perfectly sanctuarised – but without diluting them, otherwise we will lack the means to repair the four territorial fractures that I have described. Thanks to Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, this committed Lozerian, who reported some dysfunctions of state agencies that were not facilitators, but sources of complexity. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will never have to manage contracts to revitalize defence sites, as I have had the opportunity to do: you will see how complex it is! We must first convince the prefect, then the prefect of the region, then go to Paris, because what was obtained is not respected. It takes a hundred times on the job to hand over the work, to explain that the project has advanced, to justify itself constantly. Three years later, we have already consumed 20% of the credits – just like, Mr. Secretary of State, what is happening for the State-region plan contracts: everything is blocked while we are in the year of renegotiation! Where are we? No minister can answer us, because, of course, budgetary regulation has gone through this. Thanks to Erwan Balanant for his contribution. Of course, he also told me that we were going too fast. However, I remember what he said in the Chamber in July when he considered the bill for confidence in political life: he wanted to go much further, much faster, much stronger.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u353	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u354	[[Smile]] In six months, he had to take a few wrinkles, because now he wants to slow down! My colleague, we have the white temples, and we tell you that we have to move forward on the contrary. Let your impetuousness act! The territories cannot progress, this France suffers, the rural or suburban territories deserve our attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u355	I know the rural territories, I'm in!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u356	Thanks also to Thierry Benoît, whose vision and passion everyone was able to appreciate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u357	[[Smile]] And the proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u358	He also brought organizational principles, explaining that it was necessary to restore power to the departments and to ensure that the presidents of departmental councils, the presidents of regional councils and the prefects were manoeuvring, together with the intercommunal elected representatives – those who, on a daily basis, carried the projects. Thank you to him for his ongoing commitment. Mrs Marsaud, you say that this is a gas plant and that we are moving too fast. I know that you are in an enforced exercise – but, dear colleague, why wait again? Admittedly, announcements will be made in Cahors in fifteen days, but I would be surprised that overnight the organisation of the agency, the financing, the modalities of decision-making, the contracting over three years and the priorities are defined, without even having been discussed with the presidents of the departmental council and the presidents of the regional council, and without we know who, the prefects and prefects of the region, will ensure the arbitrations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u359	Miracle of simplification!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u360	[["Yes! »on the benches of the UAI group]] Are you going to settle all this with a magic wand? Shit! And you will see, in a few weeks, that you will say that you should have listened to me! This text, the Government could have adapted it after the fact. In any case, it should have been examined by the Senate before even considering a start to application: it gave you some time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u361	Yes! It's called the parliamentary shuttle!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u362	Weary, you are caught up not by the old world, but by prehistory by refusing this bill which comes from benches which are not necessarily in the majority, but practice a positive opposition, trying to accelerate the realization of the proposals of the President of the Republic. I am delighted that he wants to embark on this path, because it is a necessity for the French. The problem is not whether the initiative comes from the left, the centre or the right, but whether or not we have the capacity to provide answers. Now, because we would deny the President priority, because we would not be ready yet, because we would always have to wait, work and rework the text, we were wasting time. Look at the precedent of the housing tax: we warned you that there would be pitfalls on the ground – Charles de Courson will confirm it. But no, this time we had to wait, we had to rework the text, we had to go fast, send a sign, because it was a commitment of the President of the Republic! This is also a commitment of the President of the Republic, and we are doing everything we can to speed up its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we share the passion of the territories – but the territories can no longer wait, they are exhausted. Mr Cesarini, I share your vision of the cities and I will use the same words as you: I do not believe in their runoff. But know, dear colleague, that if there is not a strong impulse, both national and local, to raise the bar, it is entire territories that will enter into rebellion. The growth after which we are running is in these territories that we will be looking for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u363	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u364	Answers on digital, mobile telephony, medical desertification, housing, you will not bring them. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the UAI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I vote on the motion, I ask you to reflect, and in particular to consider respecting the commitment of the President of the Republic to establish this agency. I hope you will ensure that we can continue. The amendments are here; We can work on it and move on together!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u365	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u366	[[Exclaims on the benches of the UAI group. – Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I would like to clarify, Mr rapporteur, the areas of positive energy for green growth. Of course, as a result of the circulation of the circular, some communities have rightly been concerned, but you have failed to mention that funds have been released by the Government, amounting to €75 million, to finance the projects and that the State, through the voice of Minister of State Nicolas Hulot and Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu, has committed itself to honouring the commitments made for all the projects that will have started before the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u367	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u368	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] It must be made clear to the elected representatives, precisely to avoid the misunderstandings that might lead to the abandonment of certain projects – which would be a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u369	What a scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u370	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u371	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey to you my reactions, together with some points of answer. As I pointed out earlier, we share the same observation and the same impatience. The territorial divide is felt by far too many French. It's not from yesterday, but it's happening every day. One of the main factors of the territorial divide is digital: it is not possible to talk about telework or telemedicine if digital is not at the meeting. Several of you mentioned the subject: Mr. Morel-À-L' Huissier, Mr. Saulignac, Mr. Sermier. You wonder why we would succeed where all the others failed. By 2003, the then government had made commitments and required operators to achieve a number of objectives, particularly in the field of mobile telephony. What is amazing is that these objectives, the operators not only achieved them, but before the expected date! But it doesn't work: in fact, it's the famous history of the tower that covers only 500 meters around the village bell tower!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u372	And again, 500 meters, that's generous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u373	As you say, Monsieur de Courson. In the face of this, our approach is extremely pragmatic. Firstly, we must no longer rely on commitments based on the goodwill of the operators. The mountain law now provides for binding commitments, which must be implemented. Secondly, full transparency is needed. It is necessary to be able to publish the mobile network and fibre deployment map as and when. It is necessary to put an end to the purely theoretical maps, drawn up by means of information which does not come from the ground. Thirdly, we need to invest more – I have already said so. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] Fourthly, the rapid deployment of the network must be ensured. This is an issue that concerns the providers of order that are the communities. I will give you a concrete example. I was, a few weeks ago, in a small village in Isère to inaugurate a mobile phone tower. It took ten years – ten years! – to the mayor to install this tower, because the representative of a profession that I respect infinitely, namely an architect of the buildings of France, had tested all the hills to see the one on which the tower would be the least visible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u374	We were just talking about it between us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u375	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the UAI group]] Be aware that the housing bill, which we will be presenting to you in the coming weeks, will provide that the architect's famous assent cannot prevail when it comes to installing a mobile phone tower.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u376	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u377	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] For the moment, you should applaud, colleagues from the Republic on the move: this is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u378	Colleagues, let's listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u379	These are pragmatic provisions, which will speed up the deployment of networks. With regard to the report to the administration, I would like to look back on what Mr Morel-à-L'Ouissier said. Just as the territories should not be opposed to each other, I do not think that local elected representatives should be opposed to the administration or the administration to the political or public authorities. The administration must, however, change its paradigm – I say it with humility as I have worked on it. Today, it is no longer a matter of deciding on one place of what should be applied everywhere; It is a matter of being at the service of those who act in the territory, be it local elected representatives or associations. Everything we've been doing for the past six months, whether it's a bill for a state in the service of a society of trust, the accelerator of associations that we're creating or budgetary appropriations, we're doing in this sense, and it's a real paradigm shift. The creation of the agency will be integrated into this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u380	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u381	Several of you – Mr. Descoeur, Mr. Dufrègne, Mr. Balanant, in particular – mentioned medium-sized cities and their revitalization. Let us say frankly: the average cities have too often been the poor parents of land-use planning policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u382	You're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u383	We've done a lot for neighbourhoods, for extreme rural areas, for metropolises; Too often, medium-sized cities have been forgotten. This is a subject that we, together with Jacques Mézard, seized with arms-the-body. For example, ten days ago we signed an agreement with Action Logement which provides that, over the duration of the quinquennium, EUR 1.5 billion will be spent on the revitalization of housing in medium-sized cities. These are still very practical and concrete provisions. Mrs Panot, the rapporteur has answered you with arguments that I can take back entirely. A clarification, however, with regard to the ecological aspect that you mentioned. Not a lot of people in your group have noticed, during the review of the 2018 finance bill, that the Government has a real ecological ambition, while 100 million euros of additional appropriations have been granted to the National Housing Agency, that 3 billion euros will be paid, via the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, to social housing organizations in order to increase the energy efficiency of the buildings, and that equivalent sums have been granted to the communities. Ecology is a cross-cutting area, such as digital. The Agency will obviously have an important ecological dimension. The question of the opposition between the metropolises and the rest of the territory has been an important factor in the discussions. Mr Sermier referred to a very interesting study by the Office of the Commissioner-General for Equality of Territories on the impact of metropolises on the rest of the territory. However, the results are less sharp than he mentioned: she concludes that there are very different situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u384	It's still unfavorable overall!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u385	Of course, but there are very unfavourable cases, others that are less so and others that are positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u386	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u387	I want to get out of the field too. I will confine myself to one observation, concerning the famous "city-campaign" reciprocity contracts provided for by the NOTRE law: today there are only three!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u388	It's a fiasco!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u389	It seems to me that much better can be done in terms of the link between metropolitan and rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u390	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u391	The stakes are high, because they are jobs. Many have stressed this, including Mr Cesarini: this is what lies at the heart of our discussions. How to connect the employment pool with the life pool? This is the policy of the territory that we must carry out, taking into account also the profound changes that we are experiencing, especially those resulting from digital technology, whether it be telework or, tomorrow – but tomorrow is near! – connected cars. Mr Benoit, you mentioned the institutional aspect and called for the affirmation of a long-term vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u392	A manifesto!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u393	In this respect, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have been very clear: we must pause the institutional reforms that we have been experiencing for the last ten years. The aim is to consolidate things within the existing framework, without embarking on an umpteenth institutional reform. Again, I will take a very practical example. Little has been said about this, but last July, the Prime Minister issued a circular stating that the creation of any new standard must be accompanied by the deletion of two others. Prior to this decree, five to six additional standards were created each month; Since it was published, not one!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u394	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u395	In conclusion, Mr rapporteur, we fully share your ambitions. There is no question, in fact, of taking the agency out of a hat and imposing decisions overnight. We wish to continue this co-construction within the framework of the National Conference of Territories and the debates we have today, with all the administrations and agencies, in a concerted and peaceful atmosphere. What should guide us, in the end, is the idea of an agency at the service of local elected representatives, of the ease of action on the territory and of a greater ambition: we go faster by ourselves, perhaps, but we all go further together. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ultimately, the challenge is to restore trust between local elected officials, administrations and state agencies. This confidence has often been broken in the past, and it will take a little time to restore it; But that is, in the end, the ambition of the agency we want to create.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u396	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u397	Alas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u398	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u399	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u400	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 July 2017, at the first National Conference of Territories held in the Senate, the President of the Republic announced the creation of a national agency for territorial cohesion. As its name suggests, it has the philosophy of facilitating alliances between territories by promoting a reopening of the dialogue between metropolitan, urban and rural areas. It will be a tool for mobilizing resources and know-how to facilitate territorial projects. These skills exist, but their use is not sufficiently optimized. The aim of this agency, particularly in rural and medium-sized areas, is to bring together support and assistance for the engineering and financing of public policies, in conjunction with local and regional authorities. There is a need for a State to facilitate the various projects emanating from the actors of public life, and it is precisely the role that the agency will have: to be a resource mobilization tool in order to better distribute skills in territorial engineering or to foster innovation. The rise in power of the metropolises, registered in a European dynamic, is inevitable. However, this should not be done at the expense of rural and peripheral areas. The first challenge for the State is to remedy it as quickly as possible. It is worth reminding us here, Mr. Minister for Territorial Cohesion, that our country needs all the territories. Rural, peri-urban and urban areas are in an emergency situation that requires more resources from the State. We are thus facing a strong demand for financing and, above all, for engineering. The latest elections, whether national, regional or departmental, have shown how much territorial divides have become a major debate. The North-East and the Centre tend to stagnate relative to the rest of the country; medium-sized cities and sparsely populated territories are becoming fragile, as the first hearings of the joint information mission on the preparation of a new stage of decentralization, of which I am a member and whose rapporteurs are Jean-François Cesarini and Guillaume Vuilletet, tend to show. We therefore understand the concerns of elected representatives, particularly rural ones, and voters about the risk of relegation of certain territories and the concentration of powers and resources in metropolitan areas. Rurality feels abandoned. It requires special attention, and it requires more sustained relations with the major cities, as well as greater financial resources. It is on these conditions that rural life will make up for its delays. People living in rural areas often feel as if they are forgotten about technical modernity and economic, digital and social development. It is worth recalling that in some villages of the Somme and the Aisne, there is often no post office, no doctor, no nurse, no pharmacy and almost no more bistros, but closed shops, school classes and even closed churches. Without jobs, young people leave the countryside as soon as they can. The gap between metropolitan areas, medium and small towns and rural areas is found in several sectors, starting with employment. Metropolises already account for 46% of jobs, of which 22% are in the urban area of Paris alone and 24% are in the twelve largest urban areas of the province. And the movement is expected to continue by 2022. Why? Because metropolises are specialized in structurally dynamic activities carried out by the knowledge and knowledge economy. As a result, the most promising occupations are in large cities, while medium and small towns and isolated municipalities suffer job losses. With regard to the health sector, there is an uneven distribution of doctors in the territory, with desertification in some regions. Because it is not the number of doctors involved but their distribution: on average, per 100,000 inhabitants, the medical density in metropolitan France is 306 doctors; but some regions are far below, such as the Hauts-de-France – 237 doctors – the Centre-Val de Loire – 242 doctors – or Normandy – 248 doctors. Conversely, the highest medical densities are found in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur – 336 doctors – and in Île-de-France – 362 doctors. As for the digital sector, of which I am a strong advocate, the challenge is major. In my capacity as former president of the joint departmental union, I have set myself the goal for six years to deploy in my very rural department – almost 800 municipalities for 570,000 inhabitants – the best electronic communication networks, in the first place high-speed Internet and now very high-speed with fibre. The use of digital is now irritating the whole of our individual and collective life. This trend is expected to grow in the coming years thanks to ever more innovative applications for individuals, businesses and public services. To benefit from all the benefits of digital technologies, however, requires access to quality networks. The unequal development of digital between the territories, in terms of infrastructure or usage, is hardly new: 7.5 million French people would still not have access to a high-quality internet connection, and 28 million do not have access to very high-speed. Digital technologies create development opportunities for territories, but they can also create new disparities. These findings demonstrate the urgency of action. The deputies of the Republic on the move and the Government are very aware of this. It is essential to step up our action to reduce inequalities between territories, so that all French people have access to the same opportunities, services and opportunities, whether they live in the heart of metropolitan areas or in rural areas, in peripheral areas or in a medium town. Various measures have already been taken in recent months. First step: an action plan for medium-sized cities. Launched by the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, this plan, which is still in preparation, is intended for medium-sized cities. Its objective is to strengthen the attractiveness of these cities by giving priority to the requalification of degraded old centres; For five years, it will provide engineering and funding to these communities for structural projects that focus on housing and the revitalization of downtown commerce. This action plan contains three strands: the rehabilitation and construction of housing, thanks to the funding of EUR 1.5 billion of Housing Action and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, amounting to EUR 1 billion; the revitalization of city centres and their shops; the development of digital technology and innovation. Second measure: the doubling of health homes in rural areas. The fight against medical desertification is a priority. 2000 multi-professional health homes will be funded, which represents a doubling of their number by 2022. Establishments in sub-donated areas will be encouraged. Third measure: the acceleration of the "France very high-speed" plan for 2020, thanks to the use of a mix of technologies complementary to fibre. Launched in February 2013, this plan aims to cover the entire territory in very high-speed by 2022, i.e. to provide efficient internet access to all housing, businesses and administrations, while developing fibre in all territories. Fourth measure: the creation of a national agency for territorial cohesion. Following the campaign commitments of the President of the Republic, last July the Government launched in the Senate a National Conference of Territories, which consisted of several workshops and a main axis: that all the territories of the Republic have the same chance to succeed. At the end of the conference, the President of the Republic announced the establishment of a national agency for territorial cohesion. This agency will be a support in public engineering, indispensable in rural and peripheral areas. The Agency must ensure the role of one-stop-shopping and simplification of projects, both for rural areas and for medium-sized cities in difficulty. The next National Conference of Territories, to be held on 14 December in Cahors, is expected to make major progress, starting with the completion of the Agency's creation project. But without waiting for the conclusions, Philippe Vigier, taking advantage of the parliamentary niche of his group, tried to force the step by tabling this bill. The aim of the text was indeed to create a national agency whose mission would be to contribute to the harmonious development of the territories. But on the bottom and on the shape, it leaves me perplexed and dubitative. The functioning of the agency is indeed referred to a decree, and its budget is based solely on an increase in tobacco taxation. Allow me also, ladies and gentlemen, to provide you with some factual information that will inform the situation to which we must respond. With regard to Article 1, the legislator may establish a new public institution, but if it does not relate to a pre-existing category, as appears to be the case, it must lay down its constituent rules, i.e. the tasks, the category of connecting community, the categories of resources, the governing bodies and their structure. However, the bill does not set any of these rules, which puts it at risk of unconstitutionality. With regard to article 2, even if it was decided to attach the agency to a pre-existing category, namely the ANRU, so that it would be possible for the legislator to refer to the decree in the Council of State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u401	Yes, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u402	...the latter should comply with the rules governing the category of attachment, i.e. the provisions of Articles 11 and 12 of the Act of 1 August 2003 determining the structure of the governing bodies of the ANRU and the categories of revenue from which it may benefit. However, any derogation from these rules must be provided for by law, which is therefore anticipated from the stage of the proposed law. Neither the text itself nor its explanatory memorandum gives any indication of the intentions of its authors as to the main arrangements for the organization and operation of the establishment to be created. It is therefore not possible, as it stands, to determine the rules that should be included in the law. Article 3 guarantees the proposed law by increasing taxes on tobacco. It is clear that the creation of the agency, even though it is described as a public industrial and commercial establishment, would create a significant new public office within the meaning of this article. Of course, in order to prevent this inadmissibility, the drafters of the law planned to guarantee the creation of EPIC by creating an additional tax on tobacco consumption "due to competition". However, if such compensation for the reduction of a public resource is allowed, the same does not apply to the creation of a charge: the Constitutional Council considers that, according to article 40 of the Constitution, the widening of a burden, even if it is offset by the reduction of another burden or by an increase in public resources, constitutes an obstacle to any initiative. The financial admissibility of the bill therefore appears doubtful. While our group recognizes the value of creating this national agency, we do not share the way we do it here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u403	It is important to recall that the Government has been working since this summer to present a successful project, a tool that facilitates the action of our local communities. The Government is seeking to present a concrete and completed project, including the involvement of local elected officials and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations in order to mobilize the financial means necessary for the success and effectiveness of this future agency. We will rely on factual evidence and arguments to approach the subject in a pragmatic way. The only course of action should be the search for efficiency and pragmatism. While the initiative of this bill may seem commendable, it must be noted that it lacks ambition and precision. It is not capable of fully meeting the objectives set by the President of the Republic. The urgency to overcome the territorial divide must not lead us to confuse speed and precipitation if the result is to be fully satisfactory. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is with this desire to succeed that the La République group is submitting this motion for referral to committee for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u404	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u405	Mr President, with regard to what you have said about the functioning of the future agency, the urgency – you have spoken this word twice – and the willingness to sew up the territory and give it prospects, I could have practically signed everything. If you have particularly stressed the urgency, it is because you know that you have to go quickly and you have a suspicion of doubt as to how the state will take this into its own hands. This bill and the governance arrangements I propose put local elected officials at the heart of the decision – review what I wrote. Do not put all power in the hands of the central administration: for twenty years it has been a failure. We need a national impetus and a territorial declination. It is not necessary to make vertical but transversal. On the other hand, the agency's attachment to Matignon will show that the state makes it a national priority. Don't sue me for funding. Do I have to remind you that the only possibility for a parliamentarian to create a new burden is to offset it with a tobacco tax? Charles de Courson here would explain it to you better than I would. The twenty-one amendments to the 2018 Finance Bill that were passed at the initiative of these banks were covered by tobacco taxes because we have no other option. So do not oppose this argument to me, who has spent a lot of time in the Finance Committee for ten years and who know that he is not on the road for a second. Don't give us the money! If you have listened to me correctly, you know that I am adding funding from the ANRU, from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, from programmes for future investments. By mobilising local and regional authorities, I am dangling and not squandering funds, you understand that. As for you, Madame Ménard – forgive me for not answering you earlier – you are a fan of decline: you have not made a single proposal. Zero proposal, just a bitter observation! I believe in the strength of territories, rural areas, neighbourhoods, small towns, which you obviously don't know well...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u406	I live there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u407	...and in which there is so much energy, so much will. Let us leave it to hope, not to declineism. This hope, I propose, to incarnate it through this text. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] Those of you who will vote in favour of this referral to committee will deprive us of the democratic debate, amendment against amendment, with the possibility for the Government to intervene at any time to approve a proposal, reject it or rely on the wisdom of our Assembly. If we are deprived of this debate, it will mean that the stigmas of the old world are still present, and I will regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u408	We come to the explanations of vote on this motion for referral to committee. The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u409	Mr President, Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Committee, Mr President, the speeches made by the various speakers have shown that we are mostly in agreement with one observation: that of a real fracture between on the one hand, the cities, on the other, the medium-sized towns, the villages and the towns. On the other hand, we have a real point of disagreement. In introducing this motion, you feel it is urgent to wait. On the other hand, we consider it urgent to act. Many of us, before and during the legislative campaign, defended the establishment of a rural revitalization plan, which I had called "Marshall Rural Plan". This agency for territorial cohesion will not only pay particular attention to rural areas but will also have an overall vision. Between a priority area, a rural village and the centre of a medium town, problems sometimes come together. My constituency, as many others do, attests to this. The Agency's objectives, as presented by our excellent colleague Philippe Vigier, address this need for cohesion and coherence in the spatial planning policy under the leadership of the Prime Minister. If it takes the form of a public institution, which we want, it will in any case have to go through a law. Finding a suitable legislative vehicle in a very tight parliamentary calendar will take time. So let us give it the opportunity to launch, while allowing the Government to set its contours at the regulatory level. The presidential announcement dates back to five months ago. The idea has been sprouting for a longer time. The expectations of our fellow citizens are strong. Then let's act! [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] As you understand, our group will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u410	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u411	France will abstain on this motion because we do not want to participate in this small game as a subject so important for the lives of millions of French and French people and in the light of the ecological emergency. The Republic on the March could have seriously discussed this proposal if it had wanted to. I made a lot of proposals in my speech. We have a disagreement on the ecological issue, Secretary of State. Two visions oppose each other. Your Government believes that it will ensure the cohesion of the territories by trying to improve the existing one without taking into account differences or remedying inequalities; Our group believes in an ecological transition that would be a real break, with in its heart the real equality of citizens. As far as the ecological policy of the Government is concerned, it starts badly: the budget for 2018 reduces the appropriations of the French Agency for Biodiversity by 27 million euros, while we depopulate CEREMA and we reduce the appropriations of the water agencies. I repeat: territorial inequalities and social inequalities cannot be dissociated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u412	The next speaker is Mr Alain Perea, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u413	Our Republic is one and indivisible: it is what makes it its strength but it is the richness and diversity of its territories that makes it beautiful. In contrast to Jacobinism and decentralization, solidarity policy and competition from cities, successive governments have left our territories in great difficulty. This is now widely shared. As we lament and refer responsibilities, the local elected representatives I was still a short while ago – because no political group has a monopoly on rurality or experience here (Applause on several benches of the REM group) – will have to respond tomorrow to the daily problems of the French; They will have to open schools, ensure economic development, build housing, nurture social ties and carry out so many other tasks. While some here are trying to do political blows, wanting everything to change so that nothing changes, we leave the territories, the elected ones and especially our fellow citizens unanswered. We have an imperative obligation to do differently, both in substance and in form. In substance, we must be innovative and genuinely simplify public policies. From this point of view, this bill is meaningless. We must also simplify the form and exercise much more wisdom in our practices. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For both of us, we need time. As we want a strong France, beautiful and living territories, innovative public policies and renewed political practices, we will vote for this referral in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u414	Mr Vincent Descoeur, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u415	We have expressed a number of reservations and questions during the general discussion, but in our view the issue of territorial cohesion deserves debate and this bill, even if it is perfectable, deserves debate. It would be a shame to deprive ourselves of a debate on the territorial divide and the means to be used to remedy it. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] Therefore, after consulting the members of my group, which has just grown, I should like to inform you that we have decided not to vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u416	The next speaker is Mrs Florence Lasserre-David, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u417	I agree with our colleague Philippe Vigier. We are many on these benches to agree that our rural, peri-urban and urban territories are in an emergency situation and need the State to support them technically and financially. The President of the Republic himself called for the establishment of an agency whose purpose will be to facilitate the action of the communities and to work towards equality between the territories. This bill has the merit of opening the debate on the contours of the future agency. It was clear from our discussions in committee that there were a number of questions: what will be the scope of action, how will the agency be governed and how? What will his links be with other agencies? Who will be his interlocutors? How will the initiatives already undertaken be taken into account – I am thinking in particular of the various plans and schemes setting out the priorities of the territories and drawn up by the intercommunalities? Mr rapporteur, you told us in committee that the issue of cohesion in the territories required the participation of all. You are absolutely right, and that is why we should wait for the conclusions of the second edition of the National Conference of Territories to be held next week, so that the mechanism that will ultimately be retained will be the result of the consultation of all stakeholders. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why the MODEM and related groups will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u418	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u419	To the Saint-Glinglin!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u420	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u421	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u422	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann and several of his colleagues for the proper application of the European asylum system (No 331, 427).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u423	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u424	Everyone knows the intensity of the migration crisis in our European countries. Everyone was also able to measure that if this intensity had decreased in a number of neighbouring countries, it has increased in our country due to secondary flows – where a number of applicants have been denied asylum in neighbouring countries such as Italy or Germany come to France to apply for asylum. The President of the Republic has given a very fair speech in Orléans, considering that the asylum procedure needs to be improved in Europe. What is the common law today? It is based on the balance arising from the Dublin Regulation: each person seeking asylum is assured that his or her application will be processed by one State but, in return, he or she cannot use the Schengen area to apply for it in all other States. Today, ladies and gentlemen, why do I want Parliament to speak out? Because on 7 March last, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment – which concerns not France but the Czech Republic – stating that if a State does not define in its national law what is "a significant risk of leakage", it is no longer possible to use the detention procedure against a refugee who has already applied for asylum – what is called a word that is not very elegant a "dublinated". We are here tonight to answer a first question: do we want to give the Government, the administration, the same legal tools that they had a few months ago, before last March, to allow the detention procedure to be used against a person in this situation? This is rather reassuring in a state governed by the rule of law, but last September the Court of Cassation concluded that, after the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the national authorities could no longer use the detention procedure. We have to deal with a second question: at what point in the study of the case of a person covered by the Dublin Regulation, can the administration use the detention procedure? Part of our administration thought it was possible from the beginning. On 27 July, however, the Council of State delivered an opinion according to which it is for the legislator to decide. So we are here tonight to answer two questions. The first, following the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union: do we give back to the Government and the administration the right they had to use this detention procedure? The second, following the advice of the Council of State, are we giving the Government and the administration the opportunity to use it from the outset, before the transfer procedure? You have the leading figures: 85,000 asylum applications last year, including 25,000 under the Dublin Regulation – I think we will reach 100,000, of which probably more than 30,000 under this regulation. That is the issue we are concerned about today. We are not here tonight to renegotiate the Dublin Regulation, we are not here tonight to renegotiate the asylum system, we are not here tonight to renegotiate the conditions for the entry and residence of foreigners. We are just here this evening to tell the Government what consequences we derive from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the opinion of the Council of State. [[Smile]] The transfer execution rate is 9 per cent. All of us, who are here on a fixed-term contract, will participate directly or not, in a few months' time, in the European elections and everyone will have to present the result of their action – and a fortiori in a few years' time, at the end of the legislature. It seems to me legitimate to give the Government the means to implement the Dublin Regulation. That is why I am the author of this text. I thank the Government, the Minister and his cabinet for the work done, the Chair of the Law Commission for her tact, her time and her involvement in finding exit procedures, but also all our colleagues, including the majority group. As a non-member, it seems to me entirely legitimate to seek agreements with the Republic on the move. We tried to find the best solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group and on many benches of the REM group]] I understand that next March the Government will propose a reform, but I would like to try to convince you that we do not have time to wait until then. In the name of public interest and efficiency, we have a duty to empower the Government right now. I hope that the Senate will be able to put this text on the Orders of the Day very quickly so that its provisions will be incorporated into positive law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u425	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u426	Mr President, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann, for presenting the bill to enable the European asylum system to be properly applied. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, while asylum applications are now declining across Europe, France is currently facing a sharp increase in this demand, up 15% this year, after 13% last year. This is mainly due to "rebound flows". These are persons who have already applied for asylum in another EU country, persons who have been denied the right to asylum in one of the EU countries, or persons whose application for asylum falls within the competence of another Member State. Until recently, rebound flows were very small: in 2016, they accounted for only 11% of asylum applications, but in recent months the situation has changed. For example, in the first ten months of 2017, one in two asylum seekers is now covered by the Dublin Regulation. In Île-de-France and the Hauts-de-France, this proportion reaches even 75% and the trend is expected to continue, since the number of people who, although denied asylum in Europe, have not been subject to any removal procedure is estimated at several hundred thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow this situation to continue where tens of thousands of people whose care is the responsibility of other states come to question the very balance of the French system of accommodation and asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u427	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u428	Everyone measures that this is not viable. European legislation must be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in order to remedy these difficulties that, as soon as I took office, I asked the Prefects to apply the Dublin Regulation by transferring the persons covered by it to the Member State responsible for processing their asylum application... with real results since the number of transfers under this Regulation has increased by 123 % compared to 2016, which has allowed, in some territories, to alleviate our accommodation and asylum arrangements and thus better respond to the demand for the protection of women and men in danger in their country. However, as you have said, Mr rapporteur, for the past few months, the significant progress we have achieved with a strong involvement of our administration has been undermined by the decisions you have mentioned. The decision of 15 March 2017 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the content of which you explained, did not apply to France but now implies that all European countries include in their positive law what is "the significant risk of a foreigner's flight". Accordingly, on 19 July 2017, the Council of State stated that French law did not provide for the possibility of detaining persons under Dublin proceedings during the determination phase of the State responsible for the asylum application. On 27 September last, the Court of Cassation stressed that if the law defines the "risk of flight", it must, in order to allow the detention of persons under Dublin procedure, specify what is the "significant risk of flight". We therefore needed legislative provisions to provide a legal basis for the administrative detention of persons under Dublin proceedings, otherwise transfers would not be possible. This is the purpose of the bill tabled by the IDU Group, Action, Independents. I am not going to go back here to each of the articles in the text: Jean-Luc Warsmann will have the opportunity, earlier, to explain them. I just want to point out that thanks to his work, thanks to the work of your Committee on Laws, we have achieved a balanced solution which, at the same time, allows us to draw first of all the consequences of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Cassation by specifying the objective criteria in view of which the "significant risk of leakage" must be assessed; Secondly, to ensure that the action is truly effective by allowing detention from the determination stage of the responsible State; thirdly, to safeguard fundamental rights by strictly regulating detention which cannot concern a bona fide asylum-seeker submitting his application to the Single Window. I know that a number of you are concerned that when a person comes to the counter, he or she will not be immediately sent back to the detention centre. I want to make it clear that this will not happen as you fear. We have provided the necessary clarifications. I thank all the Members who have made it possible to enrich this text, in particular the Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet, who has devoted a great deal of her time...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u429	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u430	... the rapporteur, Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann, and Mrs Coralie Dubost, who also took part in the work. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond these rather technical aspects, this bill must be conceived as the cornerstone of the re-engineering of our immigration and asylum policy, launched by the Government on 12 July. Let me recall the Government's line in this regard. Yes, we will give ourselves the means to welcome those who, persecuted in their country or fleeing the theatres of war, express a need for protection. And we even want to welcome them much better than we do today, by hosting them in dignified conditions, by educating asylum applications more quickly and by making a major effort to integrate them. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the 2018 Finance Bill, if voted as it stands, provides for an 18% increase in funding for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission. But, in order to be able to implement this reception policy, we also take firm action with regard to migrants who are not intended to remain in France. That is why in Africa, we are working with the countries of origin to fight against the networks of smugglers trafficking in human beings. Last week I accompanied the President of the Republic to Abidjan, where we had in-depth discussions on these issues with all African leaders. That is why, too, we are in the process of generalizing the administrative centres for the examination of situations – CAES – in order to be able to determine the status of the person more quickly and to speed up his integration into the asylum application. Finally, that is why we are implementing an active policy with regard to persons in an irregular situation on French soil or persons under the Dublin procedure. As the President of the Republic recently pointed out, we need to welcome both those who have the right to protection and those who have the right to protection, but also to be more effective in our policies of expulsion. In 2016, for example, only 16500 deportations were carried out, while 91000 illegal aliens had been checked. The gap is considerable, as you can see, and an average city would have to be built every year if we wanted to accommodate all these people, which is perfectly unrealistic. This, moreover, could only be done at the expense of those who are entitled to asylum in France. We wish to draw the consequences. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and UAI groups]] As you will have understood, the Government therefore issues an opinion in favour of the adoption of this bill, in the drafting adopted by your Law Commission. We believe that this text will both strengthen the European asylum system, to which we are working by promoting convergence between all our asylum systems, and ensure the effectiveness of State action in the territories. I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you will give broad support to this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u431	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1088.u432	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law allowing for the proper application of the European asylum system; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the creation of a job voucher for local and regional authorities. The meeting is adjourned.
