ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u1	The next item is the report of the Joint Joint Committee responsible for proposing a text on the remaining provisions under discussion, on the proposal for a law on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention (No 508).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u2	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u3	Mr President, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee was adopted unanimously by Members and senators, after a first vote having also received all our votes at first reading in the National Assembly. This unanimity, for me, has a particular meaning: when we as parliamentarians commit ourselves by tabling a bill to respond precisely to a strong expectation from our territories, when we take the time to hear from the main actors concerned and to seek the best solutions, when we enter into a dialogue and in the search for compromise – these have been fruitful with the Government and the Senate – I consider that we give full meaning to our mandate and that we are fulfilling our function with the citizens. Yet the subject was not obvious. The decentralized exercise of the competence of the management of the aquatic environment, and in particular of the prevention of floods, arouses many expectations of the citizens vis-à-vis their elected representatives, especially when human tragedies have not been avoided in the past, and places on them a heavy responsibility. What was our conviction in these debates? The elected representatives know their territories, their assets and their fragility, and they are ready, for the vast majority of them, to take the necessary measures to implement an appropriate level of protection. Yet they must be given the means to do so. That is what we wanted to do by enriching this joint MODEM-Republic bill – I thank the presidents of these two groups for this initiative – at all stages of its consideration. What progress has been made in our work? First of all, never question the date of the transfer of the competence of aquatic management and flood prevention – GEMAPI – to public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – neither in committee nor in session, nor in the National Assembly as well as in the Senate. The obvious underinvestment and recurrent disasters affecting certain territories make it necessary to clarify the responsibilities and exercise this competence at an appropriate level, so as to ensure the renovation of our containment systems, for some old or insufficient ones, and to ensure that all territories enjoy the same level of protection in the light of the risks they present. If this transfer has not been called into question, we have considered it our role to clarify the conditions under which it would take place and to meet the expectations of the elected representatives, legitimately concerned about the nature of the obligations that would come back to them as of January 1, 2018. To that end, it seemed important to us to exercise pragmatism on the eve of this acquisition of skills. We have therefore relaxed the terms of internal secability and geographical secability, so that the IEPs can rely on the already operational structures, where they exist. These structures are, in fact, the manifestation of territorial cooperation already at work, which we wish to encourage. Beyond a transitional period of two years, these structures will need to be reorganised to reach an adapted scale and be awarded the label of public water management and development establishments – EPAGE – or of territorial public basin institutions – EPTB. We have also ensured that historical actors – departments and regions – can continue to intervene in the financing of the GEMAPI competence. We had already, at first reading, enabled the departments and regions to ensure, beyond 2020, the control of certain projects, in the framework of a convention. The CMP has gone further by retaining the possibility of financing works of regional interest from the latter, which is a further step forward in relation to the text adopted by the National Assembly. Secondly, we remain attentive to elected officials, as the Senate has done – it is its role, but it is also ours – when they tell us that they do not have the financial means to create the infrastructure necessary for the collection of runoff water, which may be the cause of flooding. In the CMP, we chose to refer this important issue to a report, as it was not strictly within the scope of the GEMAPI and is in a different time frame. On the other hand, I am convinced that the working group created by Minister Gourault, which focuses on the issue of sanitation, will not fail to mention it. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the content of the text adopted yesterday by honourable senators, which is subject to your approval. I thank all the parliamentarians who took part in this work, including my colleague Catherine Kamowski, and who voted for the progress we have made, as well as the Government, which has supported us in this process. Since this is the last text we will adopt this year, I take this opportunity to thank all the staff of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic for their work. On behalf of all my colleagues, I would also like to thank all of our colleagues. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We are about to fulfil the commitment made to the elected representatives to provide the long-awaited answers before 1 January 2018, and we are doing a useful job by demonstrating to them the trust they deserve, and that they will need to seize this competence under satisfactory conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u5	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u6	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a pleasure for me to conclude on a positive note the autumn parliamentary session in the National Assembly on the occasion of the examination of the conclusions of this Joint Joint Committee. It's a pleasure because symbolically, it's the last tens of minutes of work that we all do together. It is also a pleasure because I do not forget that at a recent time I was still mayor and president of a community of communes in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. As such, I know the concerns arising from the conditions for the implementation of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – through the GEMAPI. These concerns, you have heard them on the territories. That is what led you, together with the honourable senators, to want this text to evolve. Let me apologise for the absence of Jacqueline Gourault, who has been particularly involved in this matter. His success also owes him a great deal. I am pleased that the representatives of the two assemblies have found ways of reaching a consensus, which has quickly emerged: according to the information provided to me, it took them only a few minutes to agree. I also know, Madam rapporteur, all the work that has had to be done in advance, in order to find solutions with your colleague in the Senate that will enable this consensus to be reached. I am pleased that the conclusions, which came to an unanimous conclusion on Tuesday evening, are in line with the unanimous vote you obtained in the National Assembly on 30 November last, and the vote taken by a very large majority in the Senate on Monday night. Madam rapporteur, I will not go back to the various elements of the compromise reached by the representatives of the two parliamentary assemblies, which you have just mentioned. Allow me to thank you for your commitment and to thank the Chair of the Law Committee, as well as the members of the CMP present here, for your open-mindedness and for your sense of compromise and dialogue, which enabled you to reach this agreement. It's not always obvious. It's not mandatory either. But I think that a law that speaks to the territories and speaks about the territories is necessarily reinforced by this gathering between the Senate and the National Assembly. The vote on these conclusions is, moreover, the legislative outcome, within two months, of one of the projects launched within the National Conference of Territories. I know the impetus you gave her, Madam rapporteur, with the chairman of the MODEM Group, who was very attached to this subject and who spoke to us about it very often, and not only on Tuesday morning. On this subject of GEMAPI, we were expected by local and regional authorities and elected representatives. As has been said during the debates, this text is part of the continuity of the legislative work which has occupied Parliament intensively in recent years: that of the division of powers between the different levels of local authorities. In this regard, as you know, the Government, mindful of the concerns expressed by the Territories and their local elected representatives, has chosen stability. The balance in terms of the distribution of powers, which is the result, in particular, of the laws on the modernisation of territorial public action and the affirmation of the cities – MAPTAM – of 2014 and NOTRE of 2015, must now apply. This concern for stability, expressed by the President of the Republic at the National Conference of Territories last July, does not rule out improvements where necessary. That's how you worked, I think. It was in this spirit that the Government welcomed the legislative initiative presented by the chairmen of the MODEM and REM groups last October. The unification of river and flood risk management within the same jurisdiction, which are closely linked, everyone knows, as well as their transfer to the inter-municipal level from 1 January 2018, constituted an important step forward in the MAPTAM law of 2014. From this point of view, I must say that the logic of GEMAPI was a strong logic, a logic of solidarity, which is obviously necessary. However, you know better than I do, the implementation of these provisions has encountered some difficulties, whether it is the management of the dikes – dispersed and not always well exercised – or the insufficient consideration by the legislator in 2014 of the initiatives that had emerged in some territories, which had been structured, sometimes for a long time, to ensure the mutual maintenance of rivers. As Jacqueline Gourault pointed out, in areas at high risk of flooding, for example in the southeast, communities had taken initiatives to prevent inertia from causing deaths every year or almost every year. Similarly, some communities had undertaken ambitious and long-term work to better protect homes and human activities following major marine submerged crises. For my part, I have worked a great deal on the aftermath of the floods, particularly that of Arles, in December 2003, and I remember the rise in the power of this intercommunal, interdepartmental and even interregional solidarity – the Rhône separating two regions, of course, there is no question of leaving responsibility to one or another, when a global logic is at work. The text you are about to vote on is a relevant answer to these implementation difficulties, since it allows local freedoms to express themselves. It allows departments to continue to carry out the strategies and policies they have developed. It extends this power to those regions which had responsibilities in this field and which wish to continue to do so. It clearly affirms a principle of secability of the various components of the GEMAPI competence, which alone guarantees to the communities their free organization in the exercise of their competence. It creates a regime of responsibility adapted to the transfer of works to intercommunities, while decisions are taken on containment strategy. The Joint Joint Committee was able to draw up a balanced text. With regard to the inclusion of stormwater control and runoff in the GEMAPI jurisdiction, I welcome the fact that the CMP has agreed to forego this for the benefit of a Government report, which must be submitted in an extremely tight time frame, that is, within two months of the entry into force of this Act. Perhaps we will have an opportunity to correct some of the issues, particularly in the text on which the Government is working with you on water and sanitation skills, during the debate on the conditions for transfer, which you know as well as I do. In all cases, this compromise was important for the exercise of the GEMAPI competence, the transfer of which takes place in less than ten days. It was necessary that the reservations expressed by the Government could be heard. In total, with this vote, which I hope to support – failing which we will all meet next week (Sorry) – the entry into force of the arrangements for the exercise of the competence GEMAPI can apply from 1 January 2018, the date of the transfer of competence to the intercommunities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LR groups]] That is why the Government can only appeal to you to endorse the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, not to avoid the risk that we will meet next week, but to move this important text forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u7	In the general debate, Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u8	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say that we have all done a useful job here with this bill. We were very pleased to see the House voting unanimously – a rare thing – the text that emerged from our debates on 30 November, and we are very pleased with the progress of the text until the agreement reached on Tuesday in the Joint Joint Committee. I commend the work done by our rapporteur, Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, our colleague from La République en marche, Catherine Kamowski, and by parliamentarians from all the groups in the Assembly and the Senate. Thank you to the Government for taking the full measure of the stakes – Christophe Castaner has just reminded us – and for giving us the means to bring this text to fruition before the end of the year, because that was the issue raised by this competence. I would also like to thank the Government for the dialogue that we have built on this text. First good news, our assembly, and then the two chambers, were able to work together by going beyond the dividing lines in the service of our communities and the many inhabitants of the territories concerned. We have enough topics to discuss and sometimes oppose so as not to seize the opportunity to work together on this text. We must salute this symbol. In fact, this consensus text concerns the territories and, I believe, meets the expectations of each other. The text proposed to us today is balanced and responds to concerns; It is simply useful. The second good news was that, as soon as this text was tabled, we wanted co-construction work through the legislative proposal initiated by the MODEM Group, with the support of the Republic Group on the move. I believe that this objective is also being achieved. Why this will? Because precisely, on the original text, he had missed one thing: the confrontation with the real, with the reality of the territories, that is, with the diversity of situations. This confrontation of the law with the realities on the ground is in the honor of our assemblies. As we have already stated in this House, the transfer to the EPCI of the competence in the field of GEMAPI is a heavy matter, which required us to look at the modalities and, more broadly, the organization of this competence, as the uncertainties and concerns were shaking our communities. We have achieved the objective of easing the conditions for the transfer of competence by allowing, on the one hand, that what works well today continues to work well, and, on the other hand, by clarifying the choices available to EPCIs in terms of delegation or transfer. The text of the Joint Joint Committee proposed to us validates the major choices we made together on 30 November, with some useful editorial and substantive changes. Thus, the text allows departments, regions or their groupings, if they so wish, to continue, after 1 January 2020, to carry out the GEMAPI missions they assume on 1 January 2018. Article 1 has also been enriched by a new wording on the liability regime – the real concern of the communities – that should be applied to CIPOs, which are entrusted with the management of works that are sometimes poorly maintained over the years, or even decades, of the past. We will be vigilant about the time limit to be fixed by decree in the Council of State, which will define the period during which this limited liability may apply. We also welcome the provision voted in accordance with the Senate, immediately before the convening of the CMP, which allows an open joint union, for a transitional period up to 31 December 2019, to join another open joint union if it exercises at least part of the missions of the GEMAPI, and subject to the agreement of the competent prefect. This is an element of additional flexibility offered by this text. On the other hand, we are not fooling ourselves about funding. I welcome, in this regard, the drafting, enriched with each reading, of Article 2, which has seen its scope expand considerably. Within six months of the enactment of the Act, the Government will submit to Parliament an assessment report on the consequences of the transfer of authority for the management of rivers, coastal areas and state-owned dams, and in mountain areas. The report will have to assess the application of this transfer in the ultramarine territories and, above all, study the possible institutional and financial developments of the competence. A new Rule 5 bis, introduced by the Senate, provides for the submission to Parliament of a report within two months on stormwater and runoff control for flood prevention. It was a request from several benches of our house and the Senate; members of the CMP have acceded to it. By voting on this text, we will also allow for the internal secability of each of the missions of GEMAPI. Here too, we are doing a useful job, as there were many misunderstandings and clear differences of interpretation between government services and communities, in the most difficult cases, in the territories. Finally, the possibility offered to EPCIs, on a proposal from the rapporteur, of delegating some or all of the GEMAPI competence to a joint trade union under common law until 31 December 2019 should be welcomed. The third and last good news is that we have been able to put this subject back on the stage and reopen debates too quickly, even if we must remain modest: not all the subjects will be settled by this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u10	[[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM and LR groups]] But the urgency is well addressed: it was intended to facilitate the practical arrangements for the transfer on 1 January next. During this parliamentary term, we will have to go back to the financing of this competence – the great cycle and the small cycle of water – especially in coastal, river and mountain areas. This is the whole meaning of article 2 of this bill, which also seeks to ask the Government to reconsider the State's position on these aquatic areas, which are of general interest and which we will have to share better. For all these reasons, the MODEM and related Group of the European People's Party obviously supports the proposed text and calls on you to vote massively in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u11	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u12	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, almost three weeks after it was adopted by our House, and given the few differences of interpretation that might exist with our fellow senators, we are here again to take note of the proposal for a law on the exercise by local and regional authorities of the competence of GEMAPI, in its version proposed by the Joint Joint Committee, which met the day before yesterday. The debates in recent weeks have reminded us that the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods are major issues, which concern us all – we parliamentarians, as legislators, but also the local elected officials who exercise this responsibility and, of course, our fellow citizens, who are the first to be exposed to natural hazards. For having been, in another life, mayor of a commune faced with this type of incident, I know that it is important to legislate, to try to put in place solutions, even if we cannot solve all the problems. It is therefore an important bill. Rivers, rivers and coastlines, which are the strength of the territories and contribute to their attractiveness, can also make them vulnerable. Today, 18.5 million people in France are at risk of flooding and submersion, which is expected to increase due to climate change. We all remember the tragic events of recent years, whether in metropolitan France or overseas. Of course, this legislation, however useful it may be, will not prevent such disasters, but appropriate legislation can prevent them and limit their consequences, particularly in densely populated urban centres. When it comes to legislating on issues relating to the safety of our fellow citizens, partisan divisions no longer have their place in this House. That is why we all welcomed the unanimous adoption of this text by our House. Of course, there are differences and discussions have continued until Tuesday. But in essence, whether in the Senate or in the Assembly, in committee or in session, we all defend the same objective: to strengthen territorial cooperation and to avoid the fragmentation of the governance of the GEMAPI competence, which is essential for the implementation of a comprehensive strategy for risk management and prevention. This was also the objective of the MAPTAM law of 27 January 2014 and of the provisions on the transfer of competence to public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation between 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2020, since the inter-municipal level appears best able to exercise the two areas of intervention of the GEMAPI. But this reform has raised many concerns among local elected officials, as it is a new competence that requires major institutional reorganisations. Within two weeks of its entry into force, most own-tax CIPEs are clearly not able to exercise this competence under good conditions. The legislator has thus been able to hear the complaints of the actors concerned in order to seize this important and urgent subject. This bill, even more so in its version of the Joint Joint Committee, will be able to address these concerns. Whether it is a matter of enabling departments and regions to continue to exercise the GEMAPI competences under conditions, of providing for internal secability in order to transfer or delegate all or part of these competences, of authorizing the membership of a joint union open to another open joint union, or of providing for the submission of evaluation reports by the Government, most of the provisions of this bill have proved to be consensual. With regard to the other provisions, which may have led to differences of appreciation with our colleagues in this chamber, the work of the Joint Joint Committee has borne fruit by proposing, again, a version that I am sure should receive the consent of all the groups. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, although we would be very happy to be together next week with the IUD Group, Action and Independents fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u13	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u14	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, is today being asked of the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for a law on the exercise of competence by the MODEM Group of the European People's Party (GEMAPI) following the final work of the Joint Joint Committee on 19 December. This text adapts the territorial reform voted and implemented under the previous legislature. Far from being closed to any change in this important reform, the New Left Group will vote on this bill. This has been recalled before me, the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods, known as "GEMAPI", is today a competence shared by the State and the different categories of territorial authorities – the communal bloc, the departments and the regions – or their groupings. Our country, which is home to many aquatic environments and is heavily affected by the risk of flooding, nevertheless, it was appropriate to encourage the territories to adopt a comprehensive approach to the management of these environments and the prevention of these risks. That's why a Senate amendment was passed during the review of the bill to modernize territorial public action and assert metropolitan areas, known as the MAPTAM bill, to transfer the GEMAPI jurisdiction to the local block as of January 1, 2016. This transfer date had finally been postponed for two years by the Act of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRE Act, at the initiative of its rapporteur in the National Assembly. This postponement was based on the real need to allow the Territories to organize themselves in order to implement this transfer of authority as best as possible. As I speak to you, all of our country's own tax EPCIs must exercise the GEMAPI competence between January 1st and January 1st, 2020. Recall that other communities exercising one of the missions attached to this jurisdiction, as of January 28, 2014, may continue their commitments until the transfer of jurisdiction to the EPCI, and no later than January 1, 2020. As has been said before me, the GEMAPI competence is part of the tasks of the "large water cycle" and consists of four areas: the development of a basin or a fraction of a river basin; the maintenance and development of a watercourse, canal, lake or water body, including their access; protection against floods and the sea; Finally, the protection and restoration of sites, aquatic ecosystems and wetlands as well as riparian forest formations. The other tasks of the large water cycle remain shared between the different categories of territorial authorities and the State. On the date of 1 January 2018, many questions remain about the concrete consequences of this transfer of competence. A first question relates to the responsibility of elected officials and the mayor's police powers. The allocation of GEMAPI competence should clarify the responsibility of the actors by establishing a more coherent legal, financial and institutional framework for the implementation of flood control measures. However, there is still a legal blurring around the responsibility of mayors. Many fear that this will lead to greater responsibility for them than the exercise of their current police powers. It was therefore necessary for this bill to clarify this point. A second question is related to the funding of competence. Municipalities such as EPCI will be able, if they so wish, to set up a tax, known as the "GEMAPI tax", distributed among those subject to different local taxes. However, this tax is weakened by the ongoing abolition of the housing tax, which makes it less firm than it was at the time of the review of the MAPTAM and NOTRE laws. On the other hand, we know that the financial constraints of the water agencies pose the problem of the sustainability of the financing of the GEMAPI competence. At this stage, it is not possible for only municipalities and EPCIs to be responsible for the management of works, which would far exceed their capacities and resources – I am thinking in particular of river management. However, the provisions of this bill, in its version resulting from the work of the CMP, are in the right direction. I am thinking in particular of Article 1 of the text. This article will, in particular, allow communities and unions that carry out one or more of the missions under the GEMAPI jurisdiction as of 1 January 2018 to remain competent in this area until the transfer of this competence to the EPCIs, which, I repeat, will have to intervene no later than 1 January 2020. By way of derogation, departments and regions which carry out one or more of the tasks falling within the competence of GEMAPI on the date of 1 January 2018 may, if they so wish, continue the exercise of those tasks beyond 1 January 2020, subject to the conclusion of an agreement with each individual or single common taxation EPCI concerned. Articles 1 bis, 3, 4, 5 and 6 will provide welcome flexibility, allowing the Territories to organize themselves in the most relevant way possible. Finally, Articles 2 and 5a will provide, through two government reports submitted to Parliament in the first half of 2018, useful insights for national representation on matters of importance: on the one hand, the consequences of the transfer of GEMAPI competence to the EPCIs with own taxation, in particular for the management of rivers and state-owned dikes; on the other hand, the control of stormwater. The state dikes are an important subject, and the New Left group would have liked the state to continue to manage them. In fact, it is quite rightly stated in the explanatory memorandum to this bill: "It appears that both in its financing and in its material aspect, it is not possible that only the EPCIs and their communes are in charge of river management. This is a national issue that the law should take into account. » [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to share with you a reflection. While this bill will provide flexibility in the territories, it recognizes that it will help to make our law more complex. This is a paradox that we often find for community-related texts; I am thinking in particular of the NOTRE law. Nevertheless, the New Left Group will, of course, vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u15	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u16	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law which we are starting the last reading here concerns the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods, which is, until 1 January 2018, a shared competence: all local and regional authorities are legitimate to take action in this area. However, the law of 27 January 2014 on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the MAPTAM law, provided for the compulsory transfer, from 1 January 2018, of the exercise of this competence on an exclusive and compulsory basis to public institutions of intercommunal cooperation with own taxation, i.e. the communities of communes, agglomeration communities, urban communities and metropolises. In order to facilitate this transition, the MAPTAM law allowed communities carrying out one of the missions attached to the GEMAPI jurisdiction from 28 January 2014 to continue their commitments until the transfer of jurisdiction, and no later than 1 January 2020. Beyond that date, on the other hand, the law did not provide the opportunity for those communities that would have wished to continue to take action in this area, since it was being reserved for IEPs only. The aim of this law is therefore to extend the possibility of exercising GEMAPI powers on the map, rather than centralizing them at the level of intercommunalities. In 2015, we had already opposed the adoption of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as NOTRe. Indeed, what was called the third act of decentralization was, in our view, not an administrative management measure, but the continuation of a two-pronged political project. The first was to act on the replacement of the territorial organization resulting from the French Revolution and based on the commune, the department and the State, by a new organisation favouring intercommunalities, regions and the State or the European Union. In our view, this reform has been carried out in a forceful and risky manner, in particular through the merger of municipalities by prefectural decree and the creation of mega-regions without human or geographical reality. For example, the Grand East region and the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region have been created, which do not have a real foundation. The second objective was to introduce a form of free and undistorted competition between territorial authorities, at each level of the community, which would go so far as to insinuate itself between public services and between the inhabitants of the same territory. We are against this ideological vision, therefore against the territorial organization advocated by the governments that successively adopted these reforms. We oppose the authoritarian mergers of municipalities into inter-communities, the creation of metropolises, the consecration of new regions which do not overlap with any other reality than that of the classification of territorial statistical units of the European Union, which serves as a reference for the definition of regional policies. From our point of view, it is not by placing communities in a confrontational logic that we will create common ground. It is not by opposing legitimacy that we will give a democratic breath to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u17	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u18	We therefore believe that this text is more in the right direction because it adopts a more comprehensive view by going back to some of the decentralization laws adopted under the previous quinquennium which tended to impose a technocratic territorial vision. On the other hand, we remain opposed to the compulsory consecration of the intercommunal level enshrined in Article 2 and to the will to dismantle, in Articles 3 and 4 on internal secability, the organizing power of the State. We also regret that our discussions did not lead to the inclusion in the text of our amendments on the issue of the right to water, which is of paramount importance to us. However, this would have made these problems of a highly technocratic and bureaucratic nature more understandable to citizens, who must be able to grasp such an important issue as the management of aquatic environments and water resources. We will not fail to return to this in future parliamentary debates. We consider this text to be a first step, an opening to the recognition of previous wanderings. In this sense, it is positive, and should be followed by other steps. We will contribute to this in future parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u20	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u21	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of the examination of the text resulting from the Joint Joint Committee is due to the imminent effective transfer of the GEMAPI competence, which is scheduled for 1 January 2018. Our vote before the end of the year would almost be a timed event if it did not take place three years after the disastrous triptych law MAPTAM, NOTRE law, law on the fusion of the regions was voted and implemented without prior consultation. A few hours before the actuality of this transfer, you are therefore committing us to a true Copernician revolution by allowing the EPCIs to manage this transfer a little better thanks to the possibility of delegating, if they so wish, all or part of the missions that they have to the intercommunal unions. You thus recognise the actions and policies of departments and regions in this area and allow the minimal adjustment of the liability regime for the transfer of works. So let us all welcome this gift placed before the holidays under the EPCI tree by voting on it, as we did the first time. However, since I am naturally quite concerned, I still wonder about the time it takes for the EPCIs to unpack the package between Christmas and New Year's Day, since certain provisions, such as those in Article 3, provide for deliberations taken before 1 January 2018. Perhaps you will be able to lift my concern on this point, Secretary of State. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us be careful not to allow ourselves to be grayed out by so many advances in a single text, which, moreover, is a parliamentary initiative. Water flowing under the fir is not pollution-free.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u22	We have to stop using metaphors!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u23	I will start by going back to the question of the means dedicated to our water policies. The budgetary logic of drawing 500 million euros from the resources of the water agencies to fill part of the gifts made to the richest is still not admissible. I also welcome the fact that more and more municipalities and intercommunal groups are clearly denouncing these budget passes by adopting wishes in favour of maintaining the principle that water pays for water. On the one hand, we cannot play the fathers the virtue in environmental terms and, on the other, we cannot cut lightly in the ways that our communities, which are already exsangued, can do more effectively in terms of improving water quality, protecting people, improving drinking water systems, collective and non-collective sanitation. That doesn't hold up, Mr. Secretary of State, and we will have to talk about it one day. I cannot help but go back to the Government's announcements to the Senate regarding the transfer of water and sanitation skills, which is expected to be the subject of a parliamentary initiative in early 2018. He clarified his commitments, proposing, in particular, the introduction of a clause to safeguard communal freedoms in this area. That in elegant terms these things are said! I'll add: why make it simple when you can make it complicated? Why, in fact, do you think of the proposal of a minority to block municipalities in order to oppose this transfer of powers to intercommunality? Why commit only for a transitional period to the current and next mandate? Instead, we should talk about a clause to safeguard controlled communal freedoms, Mr. Secretary of State. Why do you have so much trouble, when it would be enough to really trust the communes? It's a strange conception of communal freedom. In the same way, while I welcome the Government's commitment to enable the inter-municipal water and sanitation trade unions, which comprise only two EPCIs, instead of three, I wonder about the principle of representation-substitution that you are putting forward. According to this principle, there will no longer be any guarantee of the presence of the municipal elected officials who currently assume this task of managing the unions, since they are not all community delegates in our rural territories. Should it be interpreted as a lack of confidence in their ability to act in the interest of the users, or rather as a guardianship provided by the EPCIs on free communal cooperation? As you see, ladies and gentlemen, as water seems to call water, in 2018 we will still have many small streams to regain to preserve the bed of the great river from a change of course on these subjects. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to say that Mr Chassaigne, who has followed these dossiers and cannot be here this afternoon, joins me in wishing you all good holidays.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u24	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u25	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to associate the Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Yaël Braun-Pivet, and my colleagues, Naïma Moutchou, Danielle Brulebois, Nicole Dubré-Chirat, Stella Dupont, Jean-Francois Eliaou and Jean-Claude Leclabart, who have given me all their knowledge and support on this text. I would also like to thank the attachés of the Working Republic Group and the staff of the Law Commission for their ongoing work and commitment. Aquatic management and flood prevention are vital issues. I was telling you here on 30 November: 18 million of our fellow citizens are affected, because they are threatened by flooding or sea submersion. Of course, the MAPTAM law of January 2014 has come to provide an answer to this major issue. However, its implementation has sometimes given rise to difficulties for local and regional authorities. Listening to the territories, like all of you here, the members of the MODEM and La République groups on the move wanted to bring together a solution that combines flexibility and efficiency to allow the full exercise of the core of the law because, as I recall, the exclusive and compulsory transfer of the competence of GEMAPI to the EPCI remains the rule. I therefore welcome the fact that, following a rich and fruitful parliamentary work, we are now culminating in the text before us. I want to say my satisfaction for the real teamwork and trust that was led, first here, with rapporteur Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, and then in the Senate. I would also like to thank you, Secretary of State, Minister Jacqueline Gourault, for the quality of our discussions and the availability of his advisers to work on issues of difficulty. I would also like, through you, ladies and gentlemen who have come many times today, to thank all those, whatever their political edge, who, in this House, have come, at other more tempestuous times, to lead a dignified and serene debate with us. Unanimously – we must stress this again – we had adopted a good text at first reading. During its consideration last Monday, the Senate amended it, and we further refined it on Tuesday evening in the Joint Joint Committee, leading to a balanced text and a stabilisation of legislation in this area. I will not go back in detail to all the provisions that the rapporteur, Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, has presented and to which I fully associate myself. I will simply emphasize the fundamental points that are in the direction of flexibility and efficiency, and that make their way to territorial intelligence and the mutual trust that is needed between legislators and communities. Departments and regions that wish to do so will now be able to continue to assist public inter-municipal cooperation institutions in investing in aquatic management and flood prevention. This is a request from them; They have the know-how and experience to do so, which it would have been a shame to deprive themselves of. We also allow organizations that have proven their worth on the ground, including mixed unions, to continue to operate in this area. This must be seen in the recognition of sometimes old structures that have been able to unite local authorities in order to ensure the protection of the population. In addition, the internal secability of the GEMAPI jurisdiction is now enshrined in the law. It is a question of responding to a demand from local actors in order to facilitate the exercise of a skill that we all know is demanding and complex. Similarly, the text allows for the temporary accession of mixed unions open to other open mixed unions. This is a provision that many of us have to make, which allows us to maintain existing organizations while indicating the absolute need for the medium-term label "Public Territorial Basin Establishment" or "Public Water Management and Development Facility", EPTB or EPAGE. Here are some new acronyms that we will have to tame, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I will refer to the report on stormwater and runoff control for the purpose of flood prevention provided for in the text. It will be submitted within two months of the entry into force of the law and will take the legal, financial and institutional stage on this important issue, is it not expensive Jean-Claude Leclabart! It could prefigure – I speak here in my own name – a future text – more or less close –, broader, or even a framework law on the great water cycle. In view of the issues currently raised concerning a vital element of our existence for all, such a text seems to me not only necessary, but indispensable. This issue will most certainly be studied, among other things, by the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, of which I have the honour to be the only member representing the commission of laws from the working Republic Group. This trans-party office is committed to a fruitful dialogue with local and regional authorities, which will enable them to respond seriously and calmly to the challenges they face.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u27	From this perspective of the future and for all the reasons mentioned by the speakers who have preceded me, as well as by our colleague who will speak after me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u28	Not sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... I invite all of you, on behalf of the La République on the move, to vote for this text, which combines consensus and conviction. After a first semester of work that I found, personally, much more exciting than tiring, allow me to wish you great holidays and very happy holidays!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u30	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u31	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us the reading of the bill, as a result of the Joint Committee's work, on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of GEMAPI. Members of the Republicans Group are pleased that the text takes into account the expectations and concerns of the communities involved in this transfer of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u32	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u33	The debates in the Assembly and the Senate have really enriched and improved the original text on several points. First of all, the possibility of exercising and supporting departments and regions in the exercise of this competence, the burdens and investments of which are particularly heavy for EPCIs and municipalities, by means of agreements between the local and regional authorities concerned. Next, there is the absolutely necessary limitation of the responsibility of the municipalities and the EPCIs during the transfer of powers. The third improvement is the temporary possibility for an open joint union to join another open joint union, for all or part of its territory, under the GEMAPI competencies and with the agreement of the prefect basin coordinator. Finally, we will follow with interest the further reflection on stormwater and runoff control for flood prevention. Our group will therefore vote for the text, which we share the philosophy of trusting the local authorities in order to determine freely between them which one is best able, given the specificities, constraints and particularities of each one, to exercise all or part of the competence. We regret, however, that the scope of the text has not been expanded and that this philosophy has not been applied to "water" and "sanitation" skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u34	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u35	This could already be done! Without reopening the debate, our assembly would have grown to be genuinely open-minded, non-partisan – the very one you are calling for, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! – if the members of the majority had adopted, with regard to the draft law for the maintenance of the "water" and "sanitation" competences in the optional competences of the communities of communes and agglomeration communities, supported by the members of the group The Republicans, the same attitude as they have reasonably demonstrated with regard to this bill, which emanates from one of the groups supporting the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u36	The two texts are different!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u37	We would have gained in time and efficiency; Above all, we would have grown up in view of the intellectual honesty of legislative work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u38	That is the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u39	Five hundred amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u40	That's not nice of the rapporteur for the bill introduced in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u41	On this new year's eve, I dare to make a wish: the one that practices will evolve in 2018 and that the openness so promised by the majority will not be reduced to words but will be truly and truly applied in its ranks, to the benefit of the general interest. We also regret that the issue of financing the exercise of competence has not been the subject of more answers in the text. We'll have to go back. In conclusion, we hope that this will lay the foundations for a more ambitious approach to decentralization. Let's have the audacity to trust local elected officials! Let us give them the means to exercise and assume the skills for which they have the responsibility! Let us commit ourselves frankly to a new stage of decentralization, proceeding intimately with the notions of trust and collective intelligence! Let us finally recognize that France is rich in territories whose particularities make its beauty, identity and vitality! Let's focus on these territories as opportunities for development and value creation for our country! Let us stop thinking that identical provisions can apply evenly and everywhere! On the contrary, let us open the way to adaptation and experimentation in a spirit of responsibility and fair application of the laws on the territory! It is up to us to define a new relationship between the State and local and regional authorities. The project is ambitious but indispensable to the economic and social dynamism of our country and to the preservation of the equality and freedom that our citizens enjoy in the face of the opportunities that our country can offer them, no matter where they live or want to live: in Paris, in Savoie, in Corrèze...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u42	In the Alps!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u43	In Isère!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u44	... or in any French territory. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] At the end of 2017, by voting on this bill as a result of the work of the Joint Joint Committee, we sincerely hope that 2018 will be an opportunity to move forward collectively and honestly, with mutual respect, in the interests of our territories and our fellow citizens. Very good parties, everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u45	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u46	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, before we adjourn the sitting, I would like to say a word to you. On 16 January, I will hand over my resignation to the President of Rugy in order to allow one of our colleagues in the IDU Group, Action and Independents, to join the Bureau of the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is a commitment to which I am committed. I am doing what I said, respecting the commitment I made last June. This initial commitment was intended to remove a blockage of our institution, pending the adoption of our new regulation. I wanted to tell you a more personal word, too. I was the youngest vice-president of the National Assembly. I say it with pride and emotion. I'm proud of the trust you gave me. I am proud to have carried out sometimes delicate work, especially in the heart of summer, which has not always been simple! More generally, I am proud of the trust given to young people and the image that the institution has been able to refer to all those who have entered our chamber, even when the debates have taken a more contrasting turn. The image we give of national representation, to the young and the old who look at us, is beautiful. This is the image of a renewed and benevolent French policy. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud]] Of all this, I am very proud and thank you. Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u48	Thank you very much for your comments, Mr. President! The vicissitudes of parliamentary life will lead you to postpone your resignation in the near future. I want to tell you that having taken on the task of presiding over the debates of our Assembly with you was a great honour for me. [[Applause]] You have carried out this mission very rigorously and professionally. On this point, I know that I speak for many colleagues on all benches. If the National Assembly loses an excellent vice-president, we keep a high-quality parliamentarian among us! For my part, I also won a friend.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u49	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u50	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your comments. I also thank you for leading our debates as most of us discovered the parliamentary debate. You have often shown great professionalism and patience with regard to both the majority and the opposition. Indeed, we have had sometimes complicated debates at the heart of the summer! [[Same movements]] You were a very young Vice-President and you remain a very young Member of Parliament. I'm very happy to continue working with you. I am also very pleased that you have fulfilled your commitments. For all this, thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u51	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u52	[[Laughs]] Mr President, in my turn, to greet you, even if eclipsing the anniversary date of the President of the Republic by this declaration, at this time, is certainly a little limited! I would like to commend your commitment and what you represent, in particular the commitment of the young people you have done well to recall, but also the willingness to play your part with firmness, determination, courage and ambition, as everyone here has seen. The practice of presiding over debates in the Assembly is not easy; It requires a certain skill and, above all, respect. If we want to be proud of our assembly, national representation and the way it is expressed, the value of respect must be above everything. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The Presidency of the debates includes this mission, which is not always obvious to fulfil. You did it with talent, Mr. President. The experienced politician I am knows that political life is long. I have no doubt that your experience will help you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u53	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u54	[[Same movements]] I will not add anything to what Mr. Secretary of State said, but a more personal word: dear Sacha, your grandfather is probably as proud of you today as he was on the first day you went to the perch!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u55	Thank you, dear Catherine. I wish you all happy holidays.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u56	Next sitting, Tuesday, 16 January 2018, at 15:00: Questions to the Government; Questions on "Land planning and revitalization of city centres and town centres: public services, community services, shops"; Questions on national housing policy. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-21-O1110.u57	[[The meeting rose at 15.5 p.m.]]
