ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to justice (No 273, Annex 29; No 278, Volumes IV and V). The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u3	Madam President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, Madam and gentlemen the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your presence at this rather unusual time on the eve of 1 November. The budget of the "Justice" mission that I am about to present to you is a concrete translation of the priority that the Government intends to give to justice as well as of the commitments of the President of the Republic in this matter, confirmed by the Prime Minister. This budget will increase by 3.9% in 2018; a thousand additional jobs will be created; Operating, investment and intervention appropriations will increase by 4.9%. These are his three main figures. These increases are higher than those observed in the previous quinquennium, which is a source of satisfaction. As I mentioned recently in the enlarged committee, they must not only be understood as a mere budgetary increase, but also as the desire to make a profound change in the functioning of our judicial institution. This is also the objective of the five judicial projects that I have just launched and which I have presented to your Law Committee. Their findings will be delivered on January 15 and will be reflected in the five-year law on the programming of the means of justice and in the criminal law that I will have the opportunity to present to you in late spring 2018. Already, the 2018 budget of the "Justice" mission fits perfectly in the perspective of these projects. It reflects three clear objectives. The first is to contribute to improving the day-to-day functioning of justice. To this end, 148 jobs will be created in the courts in 2018, including 100 judicial posts and 48 legal assistants. As a result of the reforms provided for in the law on the modernization of justice of the twenty-first century and the dematerialization, 183 jobs could be redeployed to new missions. The operating appropriations of the judicial services will increase by 9.9 per cent and the real estate credits by 30.8 per cent, which will enable the new Palais de Justice in Paris aux Batignolles, an innovative building that will give a very beautiful image, and will give new and improved means of operation to the courts throughout the territory. The digital transformation plan is also reflected in the proposed budget: 50 new jobs are created to ensure its deployment and the computer budget is increased by 20 per cent. The second objective of the Justice Mission's budget is to enhance the effectiveness of sentences, which requires real reflection on their nature, meaning and scale and on their execution. The construction of 15,000 new prison places, announced by the President of the Republic during the presidential campaign, will meet the security requirements of society as well as the dignity of detainees. Funding of €26 million is provided to launch a first wave of prison projects, including five detention centres and six exit preparation areas. In fact, I asked the director of the prison administration to hasten the projects that may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u4	With what staff?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u5	In addition, 470 jobs will be created in 2018 with a view to opening the establishments in Aix-Luynes 2, Draguignan and Paris-La-Santé. We must also reflect on the effectiveness of the sentences, in particular on accompanying the course of detention. To this end, 150 jobs of prison integration and probation counsellors will be created in 2018 and followed by subsequent job creations. They will strengthen the follow-up of persons in the hands of justice. In addition, €10 million will be allocated to strengthen prison security arrangements, in particular the prison intelligence information system, which will benefit from an additional 35 jobs. The objective of effective sentencing also includes the judicial protection of young people. In this context, we plan to create twenty closed educational centres. However, we believe that minors should be provided with appropriate responses to individualized care in separate situations, both in a closed and open environment. For this reason, forty jobs of teachers will be created to monitor them in an open environment. The third objective of the budget is to pay particular attention to our weakest citizens. In this context, legal aid resources are increasing quite powerfully in 2018, increasing by 8.7% to €438 million, plus €83 million of allocated resources. More than half a billion euros will be spent on access to the rights of every citizen, especially the most vulnerable. In addition to this financial contribution to legal aid, it is also necessary to rethink the functioning and financing of legal aid in order to provide it with a sustainable funding modality. This will be the subject of the joint mission I have entrusted to the Inspectorate-General of Finance and the Inspectorate-General of Justice, which will submit their proposals to me on 15 January. Finally, in terms of support for the poorest, funds for assistance to victims are up 6.3 per cent. This is an important aspect of my work, which I will carry out with the assistance of the interdepartmental delegate for victim assistance attached to me. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget for the Justice Mission is the first step in the implementation of the transformation of justice, which I intend to carry out with deep determination. With your support, I am confident that we will be able to work usefully to meet the aspirations and legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u6	Mr Patrick Hetzel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked you last week in an enlarged committee, Madam Minister, about certain points which I will not resume this evening. However, it seems to me that our debates and budget documents leave behind a number of uncertainties that deserve our collective attention. First of all, the subject of the creation of posts foreseen by the Justice Mission remains extremely sensitive. Your draft budget provides for 1000, compared to 2100 last year; 295 are intended for the courts, while 400 magistrates and 800 clerks are lacking. Therefore, can you indicate how high the vacancies will be reduced in 2018? On the other hand, your services seem extremely confident about the expected positive effects of the introduction of a policy of simplification of procedures and digitisation, to the point of providing for 183 redeployments of posts. What, then, are the concrete dematerialisation acts that will be carried out during the year? Because of the delay in your administration in the field of information technology, I have serious doubts about the real possibility of such redeployments, at least in such a short time. You have also decided to allocate 470 jobs to the prison administration. It would be very useful to know the exact destination. Will they be fully assigned to the prisons that will open? Will they make it possible to reduce the many vacancies in the prison administration – around 1800 – as a result of which the heads of institutions are increasingly difficult to ensure the functioning of their entities?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u8	Especially in Le Havre!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u9	Recruitments planned for 2017 that could not be carried out are also a major topic. Will they be postponed to 2018 or will they be lost? This issue is of paramount importance. The answer to this question depends in part on the reality of the situation in your department, Minister. In addition, how will the prison security teams created by your predecessor, which are responsible for the security of institutions and judicial extractions, be equipped? Similarly, the judicial protection of young people is expected to recruit 40 officers, compared with 165 last year. Will this result in a downward revision of the management standards, which are the guarantee of the quality of service provided by this administration? What will be the distribution of the posts created? Are they teachers? Psychologists? Social service assistants? Accuracy is essential, while many staff contracts are not renewed, increasing the operational difficulties of the services and degrading the working conditions of all staff. In concrete terms, who will benefit from it? Educational services? Educational action in an open environment in particular? A clarification is expected in so far as you have just announced, with great reinforcement of communication, the very legitimate creation of twenty new closed educational centres. I'll extend my questioning again. You are aware, Madam Minister, that the Minister of Action and Public Accounts has just announced the postponement of the so-called "Professional Paths, Careers and Remuneration" protocol for the entire public service. For the Ministry of Justice, does this failure to speak mean that the many statutory reforms undertaken will not come about? Will the previous government's arbitrations in favour of a revalorisation of the remuneration of judicial staff be confirmed? For example, the 2017 Finance Act provided for the upgrading of the remuneration of the Ministry's officials to the tune of 41 million euros. How much will it cost in 2018? I did not find it in the budget documents. Finally, the appropriations for legal expenses remain almost stable. Does it have to be understood that the movement to reduce suppliers' payment deadlines started last year is now interrupted? Can you commit yourself to the national representation to interrupt the budgetary cavalry to which all the courts were previously subject, as the Court of Auditors has demonstrated very well? Madam Minister, in your capacity as a member of the Government, which you represent in its entirety on this bench, can you certify that the budget of the "Justice" mission that we will vote will be free from the freezing mortifers decided as regularly as arbitrarily by Bercy, without any consideration of the specific needs of the judicial institution for which you have responsibility? On your first visit to the Reims courthouse on July 4, you stated that, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, not everything is a matter of means. That's not true. However, the budgetary challenge remains the first parameter for the proper functioning of our judicial institution. A degraded budget for 2018 would lead to carry forwards of expenses, investments and recruitments that better but hypothetical endowments in the years to come cannot, alas! Never absorb. That is why I look forward to your answers to my questions, which are all areas of concern, both within your ministerial perimeter and in view of the idea that the entire nation is making of the real effectiveness of our judicial system under your control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u10	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u11	Mr Bruno Questel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, for the prison administration and the judicial protection of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u12	Madam President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Chair of the Committee, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, justice is done on behalf of the French people. The French and the French, our compatriots, if they expect so much when they are victims, find it, when they are called into question, eminently severe. Justice must be strong and respected, independent and intransigent. Today, it must reform, while continuing its work of daily protection, it must evolve. Its transformation will be the symbol par excellence of our ability to reform the State and, ultimately, our Republic. That, Madam Minister, is the meaning of the five trials of justice that you have launched. The Justice Mission has increased its appropriations by 3.8%. Justice was one of the priorities of Emmanuel Macron, a presidential candidate; It is now one of the well-established budget items in the 2018 Finance Bill. In addition to the increase in appropriations, the posts created – 730 in the prison administration, 40 posts of educators in the judicial protection of young people – are all signs of staff, but also of the people who are litigants, in favour of strengthening the resources of these two administrations. The context in which we operate alone justifies that the means of the prison administration and the judicial protection of young people, the PJJ, should be sanctified. Justice will only regain its full credibility if our citizens regain confidence in public action in all its dimensions, in particular in the treatment of radicalised minors, who need our full attention. The prison administration's budget will increase by almost €80 million, an increase of 2.2 per cent over 2017 at constant scope. These same appropriations, which are not taken into account, will amount to EUR 1.2 billion. With regard to staff, some 730 posts were partially required. The breakdown is as follows: 35 posts for prison intelligence, 50 posts for community judicial extractions, 150 posts for integration and probation services and 470 posts for planned openings. What should be retained at this stage is the creation of a large number of posts in an administration which suffers from a lack of attractiveness and recognition: the number of vacancies illustrates how attractive these jobs are no longer, and they are rarely exercised by vocation or passion. Beyond the financial question alone, it is clear, and the hearings of the professionals of the prison administration have confirmed it, that this profession is in crisis, that it is practised in a world in tension and that fears of dramatic incidents or accidents are real and daily. The prison administration faces several challenges: recruitment in crisis, the consequences of the creation of 15,000 new prison places, latent violence in the prison environment, new threats, mainly linked to radicalisation, and the consequences of the failure of penal reforms to introduce alternative penalties such as criminal coercion. In terms of funding for the judicial protection of young people, they are increasing by EUR 22 million. They will finance the 40 educational posts created but will also help ensure that staff feel taken into account by the institution and by the actors in the justice system, who do not always understand the importance of their mission. All these developments are in line with the prospects opened up by the five judicial reform projects that you launched, Madam Minister: the digital transformation, the improvement and simplification of criminal and civil procedures, the adaptation of the judicial organisation, the meaning and effectiveness of sentences. We are primarily interested in this last project. It measures the need to strengthen the integration and probation services so that the individualization of sentences is reflected in the monitoring of the files and life paths of the persons concerned and in the prospects for their reintegration. Finally, it is up to us to reflect on the roles played in society as a whole and in the Republic in all its components by the open and closed environments of the PJJ, as well as on our collective capacity to act in order to give life to these young people who, if they are part of a delinquent path, still remain children of the Republic. In a strong state, the Republic must not only protect but also question the reasons that drive some of its children to find refuge in the most terrifying discourses of religious extremism and radicalization, and to pour into the terrorism that may result therefrom. These children have so different profiles that typological approaches cannot be put in place. Moreover, the evolution of the cases identified is so rapid that the actors of the institution have to adapt constantly. It is clear, however, that these young people, by taking refuge in religion and radicalism, find meaning in their lives, which neither the Republic nor their family environment before it knew or could bring to them. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Today anything is possible. Each family can be concerned and no one – including on our benches – can claim to escape this dramatic phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u13	Mrs Laetitia Avia, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, on justice and access to the law, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u14	Madam President, the President of the Committee, the President of the Commission, the Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are presenting to us, Madam Minister, is both ambitious, balanced and forward-looking, while guaranteeing the primary mission of our judicial institutions. If this is a budget with significant progress, it is only a first step, a step towards giving impetus to a deeper reform that will be reflected next year in the programming law and in the conclusions of the five judicial projects that you have initiated. With an increase of more than 20% in computer credits, this budget is that of the digital transformation of the ministry, a prerequisite for the digital transformation of justice. Indeed, it is no longer conceivable that our jurisdictions should be so far from the world in which we live, because of inappropriate hardware and software, because of the obligations of archiving on paper that engulf the courts, and because of the increasing methods of referral that double the workload of civil servants. Far from being what our colleague at my extreme right might call a gadget just now, this digital transformation will enable the means of justice to be upgraded from the computer age to a real digital age. Posts, tools, networks, servers and dedicated personnel will finally be worthy of the XXth century. This is an absolute necessity when we know that a computer failure has been able to block Créteil's court of grand instance – TGI – for four days in a row due to obsolete software and the absence of an on-site computer specialist. This is an issue for departmental officials, but also for the litigants, the collateral victims of this archaic which we describe. Madam Minister, as you said, this budget is thought of for the poorest: the significant increase in appropriations for access to law and justice, increased to more than 400 million euros, is proof of this. More than 1 million applications, asphyxiated legal aid offices and a cumbersome administrative process: you have heard a unanimous request for reform. The dematerialization is expected of all and your budget will enable it to be implemented. Digital technology will simplify the mission of civil servants and enhance access to justice for the poorest and most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u15	It's true that digital technology for the poorest people works hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u16	But we will have to go further, because today too many litigants are refusing to enforce their rights for financial reasons, but also because our procedures are cumbersome, complex and lengthy. This problem of access to the law is even more acute in cases of low financial stake, so-called daily disputes. As they turn, for the management of their litigation, to private services accessible on the Internet, we must reconcile the French with the public service of justice. However, it will be necessary to ensure that this concern for efficiency does not take place at the expense of the most fragile of our fellow citizens, far removed from the law and from the digital world, who will always need to be accompanied. A dispute of 4000 euros represents more than three months' salary for a person paid to the SMIC, so this is not a small dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u18	Let us therefore be vigilant to ensure that everyone has access to the right. The duty of conciliation in everyday disputes, by giving priority to amicable settlement over the judicial litigation approach, has already begun a paradigm shift. I also stress the importance of the houses of justice and law, the MJDs, and that of the clerks who exercise within them, because they both play the role of relaying the judicial institution. I do not forget the departmental councils of access to the law, the CDADs, essential vectors of proximity in the understanding and implementation of rights. They must be encouraged and strengthened so that they do not constitute the variable for adjusting local budgets, as is the case in Île-de-France, where some CDADs are at risk as a result of the regional council's financial disengagement – this is not in the sense of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u19	Who lowered the region's endowments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u20	These are the elements I wanted to bring to your attention. The appropriations of the Justice mission will bring the functioning of judicial institutions up to the values as objectives of our Rule of Law: €7 billion for justice in the 21st century, effective and which makes protection of the most fragile its priority. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Some will say it's not enough. It is true that more and more are being sought for justice; That's commendable. We will be at the rendezvous in spring 2018, but let's start by voting on this strong budget of 7 billion euros, which gives the necessary resources and momentum to the profound and ambitious reform announced by the Government as a priority we share.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u21	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a regal policy of the state for which a state of emergency should be declared, it is justice. Madam Minister, to take up some of the qualifiers of your predecessor, Jean-Jacques Urvoas, the justice of our country "is out of breath", "in a state of absolute emergency", and even "in a state of clochardization". The comparison of our country with the other states of the European Union gives the real measure of the impoverishment of French justice: with 72 euros per inhabitant per year devoted to justice, it points to the fourteenth place out of twenty-eight; With ten professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants, he occupies the twenty-fourth place. As a result, the proceedings are lengthy: in the first instance, a Frenchman will have to wait an average of 304 days to see his case tried, against 19 days in Denmark, for example. In view of this terrible fact, which places us among the worst pupils in the European Union, it is a real catch-up plan that we would need. However, with 3.9% increase and 1000 new posts, i.e. half as much as last year, this budget will not make it possible to commit this indispensable catch-up. It will not fill any of the gaps, it will accompany, at most, the increase of the housing stock. The only positive thing is the announcement to end public-private partnerships whose exorbitant cost to public finances is known to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u23	It's a racket!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u24	In fact, it would be reasonable for other departments and communities that use this type of partnership to move quickly along the same path, abandoning this facility of transferring investments in operating expenses, thereby degrading public finances for decades. The situation with regard to the prison administration is as critical as it is with regard to the judiciary. Let us remember that the state of its prisons, as well as their overcrowding, still owe France many sentences before the European Court of Human Rights. As far as judicial justice is concerned, the budget will increase by 9 per cent, but only one third will be spent on real estate loans, mainly under the new judicial city of Paris, located in the Batignolles. We plead, moreover, that this pharaonic project be isolated from the budget as its cost is high and false, therefore, all its financial data. On the other hand, the planned recruitment of 100 judges is obviously not up to the level, especially since if the number of jobs increases, the number of judges in active employment is decreasing, as the number of vacancies continues to increase. I must also confess, Madam Minister, that I do not understand the fate of the services of the judicial protection of young people. If their appropriations increase by 3.4%, this increase cannot remedy the situation of fragility in which the JJP has been in place for many years. Above all – and that is what I have the most difficulty in understanding – they will not allow Emmanuel Macron's commitments to be implemented when he was a candidate for the presidency of the Republic. He said: "Minor justice is one of our top priorities, because that is where the future of children in difficulty is played. It is surprising, therefore, that not only does juvenile justice not benefit from a substantial increase in funding, but it is also not the subject of one of the major judicial projects that you recently presented to our committee, the seal keeper. Finally, I cannot speak on this subject without referring to the catastrophic situation of the Seine-Saint-Denis, where the justice and the court of Bobigny, the second court of France, are exsangue. It is to the point that the State has just been convicted of denial of justice for imposing abnormally long periods of time on the litigants and for failing to comply with its duties of judicial protection. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you had the opportunity last week to visit the Bobigny High Court and, by your own admission, what we see in its corridors is unacceptable. Unfortunately, the announcements you have made do not meet the expectations: apart from the few credits to repair watertightness and close water leaks, there is nothing that can restore dignity to the staff of the court and allow the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis to hope for equal access to the rights before the justice of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u25	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u26	Since we must conclude, I would like to announce that the Communist Group will vote against your budget in a logical way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u28	Mrs Alexandra Louis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are debating funding for justice for 2018, it seems to me appropriate to recall both the current situation of justice, as we see it, and our ambition for this great ministry. As we know, many of our fellow citizens are concerned about our justice, if not distrustful of it. Often considered too slow, and perceived its procedures as too complex, the litigants were often distraught. However, it is important to stress that justice actors are particularly involved. While this finance bill is part of a necessary improvement in our public accounts, we can only welcome the 3.9% increase in the justice budget for next year – a particularly encouraging increase. However, our approach cannot be limited to the increase, although necessary, in these appropriations. It must reflect, more broadly, our desire to drive true transformations – for that is our true ambition. That is how you launched, Madam Minister, the five justice projects, with a clear and precise roadmap. The aim is both to simplify and improve civil and criminal procedures, measures which are particularly expected; to drive for our jurisdictions the transition from the computer age to the digital age; initiate a real reflection on the meaning and effectiveness of the sentence; to reflect on the adaptation of the judicial organization. The increase in this budget will give a first impetus to these long-awaited transformations. If it is a subject which should particularly benefit from the changes envisaged, it is undoubtedly that of assistance to victims. As we commemorate, on 13 November, the terrible attacks that have affected our country in the heart, the fate of the children, women and men who have been the direct or indirect victims of these attacks concerns us all. We must be at the side of all the victims – absolutely all of them. After sideration and fear, the path to reconstruction can be very long and complicated for the victims of attacks, but also for victims of domestic violence, natural disasters, collective accidents or any other crime – as there is no hierarchy in support of victims. The aim is not only to provide them with legal and psychological support, but also to help them, where necessary, to return to work or to change housing, for example. This is why it is essential to provide them with long-term support on all levels. In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in expenditure on victim support associations and federations. This significant increase in subsidies has enabled concrete measures to be taken, such as the generalization of victim support offices, the implementation of teleprotection mechanisms for persons in grave danger, particularly with the use of alert telephones, and the establishment of a network of focal points dedicated to the victims of attacks, thanks to the funds allocated under the counter-terrorism plan. This effort, we will continue, and even strengthen it, since, in the budget you are presenting for 2018, the allocation for victim assistance benefits from a 6% increase, which we can only welcome. This will ensure the sustainability of existing actions and the development of new ones, as well as the continued support of associations working in this area in a remarkable way. But, as everyone knows, the increase in resources, to be effective, must be accompanied by a relevant organization. For this reason, on 12 July, an inter-ministerial delegate was established under your authority, specifically responsible for victim assistance, whose mission is to coordinate all the services involved in this field. Several actions are already under consideration, such as the development of a resource and resilience centre, which will enable research on post-traumatic stress disorder to be consolidated, with a view to strengthening the training of the various actors involved in victim assistance. The inter-ministerial delegation is also planning the development of a dematerialised information system on victims of attacks and disasters, in order to collect and share data – again, we see that digital development has its full meaning. Moreover, because assistance to victims must go beyond borders, it seems more necessary than ever to develop international cooperation. The care of French victims abroad must be just as effective as that of foreign victims in our territory. This issue will be raised in particular at the forthcoming European meetings of victim support associations. In addition to these arrangements, we can welcome the establishment of local committees, which enable the policy of caring for victims to be adopted at territorial level by involving the various partners, such as the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM) or the Employment Centre, for example. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is thanks to these actions and to this closeness that we can hope, Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u30	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u31	Madam President, the Chair of the Committee, the Special Rapporteur, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the finance bill for 2018, the first of the quinquennium, sees, in a general context, a 3.9% increase in the budget for justice. We take note of that. However, we also know that, despite the continuing increase in the resources allocated to justice for years, the Justice mission remains in abeyance, as I have already pointed out in the enlarged committee. The institution is so fragile that any delay is a condemnation, any postponement sounds like an abandonment, and all blindly like a desertion. I would like to refer specifically to the suffering that seems to me to be most flagrant, starting with Program 166 "Judicial Justice". Personnel expenditures are increasing in this program, with the creation of 148 full-time equivalents, but investment expenditures are decreasing in program authorities. In this regard, I invite you to visit the Toulon High Court. For law professionals and users alike, daily life is a test. It is sufficient to pass through the door to see the chronic shortage of staff, the lack of maintenance of the buildings and the failure of the current means of operation. Above all, I want to highlight in this chapter one of the most serious recurrent problems identified by the Court of Auditors recently, namely the "black hole" in the costs of justice. I would point out that the costs of justice correspond to the expenses of qualified persons required by judicial police officers or magistrates in connection with their investigation, for various missions of essential expertise. However, in addition to the increase in the number of acts related to the multiplication of proceedings, the PLF for 2018 provides for a tariff adjustment of these benefits. I'm telling you, Minister, the commitment authorizations, which are only 0.33%, will not be enough to settle all the acts. I would point out that the line corresponding to the costs of justice is not anecdotal, since it weighs almost half a billion euros in operating costs. The second subject of suffering concerns the Prison Service programme. With the exception of staff costs, which increased by 4 per cent, all expenditure items decreased sharply. I note your willingness to create 15,000 places in ten or fifteen years: this is a good decision. In the meantime, where are the credits to acquire the land where future establishments will be built? There would be so much to say about this program... I have referred to the courts through Toulon's example, but the situation in prisons is even worse, with an endemic overcrowding, a acute lack of staff, supervision and probation, and deteriorating working conditions. As for the judicial protection services, they survive by trying to avoid both asphyxiation and drowning in the face of increased needs. With regard to programme 182 "Judicial protection of youth", I want to emphasize the radicalization of young prisoners, many of whom are attracted by jihad. In the face of this situation, the prevention of radical behaviour must be a priority. A €5.3 million allocation was specifically earmarked for the fight against terrorism and the radicalisation of minors in the 2017 budget. However, no comparable appropriations are included in this year's budget, and we regret that. Finally, the appropriations for the 101 "Access to Law and Justice" programme have increased by 8.7 per cent. This increase is due in particular to the consequences of the reform of the previous government, which extended the conditions for access to legal aid. The major problem of legal aid is structural and is due to its cost, which is constantly increasing, and to the ever-increasing number of people eligible for legal aid – one million in 2018. It is therefore not certain that the increase in the budget allocated to this programme is sufficient to cover the new expenditure, which could be very important. Finally, we note a slight increase in the budget for assistance to victims of criminal offences. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the end, this budget is a priority for justice, but we consider it to be inadequate in terms of the considerable needs. We are therefore inclined to vote against this budget, but we will make a final decision after the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u33	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spent forty years of my life in court. All the interventions I have just heard on the state of justice and the judicial institution have therefore spoken to me. But I want to stay positive, and I'm lucid. First of all, I note that the budget for justice is increasing, which is not the case for all ministerial departments, and that it is increasing by 3.9 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u35	No, it's 2.3%!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u36	Of course, I would have preferred it to increase by 10%, but it is still an increase. Trade union organisations and a number of political leaders regret that this increase is not as large as that achieved in 2017 compared to the 2016 budget. They deplore a slowdown in the growth of the budget. That is correct at the moment, but I will not associate myself with this criticism for two reasons. The first is that France must control its public spending, which had been committed by the old majority, and what it has not done. Justice, like all ministerial departments, must contribute to the control of these expenses. And if we want to put ourselves in a path of restoring fiscal balance in 2022, it is this year that we must begin to do so. With a 3.9 per cent increase in the Mission's budget, justice is a priority for the Government. I am glad, and we will not overbid. The second reason is that we will not be able to overcome the many ills mentioned – as I said, I know them well, from the inside – especially the congestion of business and the lengthening of deadlines, by simply adding a few tens of millions of euros each year and a few hundred budget items. First of all, it is my conviction to reform the institution in order to refocus it on its core tasks and make it more operational. The diversion of a number of disputes, the reform of the establishment of places of justice, not to say the judicial map – it has become a big word – and the reduction of civil and criminal proceedings are all avenues on which to move ahead. They are found in the five construction sites that you have decided to implement, Madam Keeper of the Seals. I will not go into the details of the sectoral measures developed in this bill. They're all in the right direction. During the examination in the enlarged committee, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you told us that you had signed with the Minister of the Interior a circular dividing the tasks between the prison services, those of the police and those of the gendarmerie to ensure the judicial extractions. We welcome that. As I pointed out in committee, it is not anecdotal: it is the way justice is done on a daily basis and the proper functioning of the judicial institution, which our fellow citizens are entitled to expect. In the future, these extractions will have to be carried out without exception and without delay. We have an obligation to achieve results in this area. I would like to take the opportunity of this debate on the budget of justice to express the hope that the heads of the Court of Cassation will be involved in the preparation and implementation of the budget of the courts of the judicial order as soon as next year. It would be desirable for them, in the long run, to have the same powers as those acquired by the Vice-President of the Council of State in the management of administrative courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] The budgetary effort devoted to the "Justice" mission marks the Government's continued interest in this sovereign function of the State, while being consistent with the control of public spending. It is part of a longer-term strategy, which will include a five-year programming law for the Ministry's resources. Under these circumstances, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote the credits of the "Justice" mission without reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u39	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Committee, the Special Rapporteur, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of this draft budget for 2018 is a particularly important moment, since it is the financial translation of the executive's priorities for this absolutely essential institution, which is justice and which we all know is fragile. First of all, the Government's willingness to continue its efforts to protect France and the rule of law, beginning with justice, is to be welcomed, since almost all the appropriations and jobs in all the Mission's programmes are on the increase: at a constant scope, payment appropriations are increased by 3.8 per cent compared to 2017, and the employment ceiling is increased by almost 1750 full-time equivalents worked. These advances are real, but, of course, we are all aware that the response to the challenges facing justice cannot be purely budgetary, as the problems and shortcomings are numerous, diverse and complex. In 2018, you announced the implementation of five major projects and the development of a five-year law on programming aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of justice. We agree with you on the need to continue the efforts made during the previous legislature, in order to reform the institution and several of its powers in depth. I welcome the work already done to simplify the organisation of justice. The law of modernization of justice of the twenty-first century has played a pioneering role, particularly with the introduction of group action, which has been the subject of very enriching and decisive debates in this Assembly for the future of the institution. I am also referring to the question of the harmonisation of limitation periods. Thus, major projects have been launched, which we must now continue. I also thank the State for having set up the land court in French Polynesia, and I thank you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, for continuing this effort: you have heard our appeal taking into account the specificities of French Polynesia when drafting the implementing decree. I also call for the major projects that you are going to undertake to have an impact on the overseas territories. I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that French Polynesia is primarily a maritime territory on the surface of Europe, with nearly 300,000 inhabitants scattered over 118 islands. Making justice throughout this territory is a daily challenge. In this regard, I welcome your listening on land issues. With regard to legal aid, which is the subject of one of the five projects, we believe it is urgent to improve its effectiveness for the most deprived people. Here again, we must take into account the standards of living in our territories. As you know, we have a real difficulty in providing legal aid in French Polynesia. I know that is also the case in other territories. In the area of dematerialization, a pragmatic and effective reform must be undertaken. Dematerialization is not a luxury: it meets an essential need of our fellow citizens who live at the bottom of certain valleys in Polynesia, Guyana or elsewhere. They are French, I remind you, and are entitled to this justice. The issues of dematerialization obviously concern the overseas sector in the first place. Another major issue is the prison administration. On behalf of my colleagues in New Caledonia, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of prison overcrowding and ask you to honour your predecessor's commitments to that territory by continuing the announced project. In general, we welcome the increase in appropriations, hoping that they will make it possible to undertake the reforms necessary to improve our judicial system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u42	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the committee, the special rapporteur, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will consist of three points and four observations. First point: the review of the various programs in the justice budget confirms that you are continuing the work we have been doing since 2012 with the adaptation of justice in the 21st century. We therefore share the same objectives. In the area of criminal justice, we share the conviction that imprisonment is not the only criminal response, that there are alternative and more useful ways, that our prisons must be more humane in order to promote reintegration and avoid recidivism, and that the pain and protection of victims is also a priority. In the field of civil justice, we share the view that, by all means – budgetary measures, procedural reform, dematerialisation – we must overcome the very great difficulty that the judicial institution has been in for thirty years. In budgetary matters, we have the same certainty that there is no longer a moment to lose. Jean-Jacques Urvoas said this very well: every fiscal year must count double, and the problem of justice is first of all the budget. Secondly, we also share an alarming finding. In interministerial arbitrations – which we also regret the opacity of other times – Bercy should have taken into account the comparison that the European Commission has given us in the 2016 edition of its Justice Scoreboard in the European Union. Justice in France is a small budget: with 72 euros per inhabitant per year, twice as much as in Germany, it ranks 14th out of 28. Our country is also understaffed: with 10 professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with 21 on average in the European Union, it is twenty-fourth out of twenty-eight. Finally, French justice is slow: a Frenchman must wait 304 days to see his case tried at first instance, against 19 days in Denmark. To understand this, it is sufficient to push the door of a court of great jurisdiction; to report on the situation in prisons, where overcrowding is endemic, which removes all virtues of reintegration and puts supervisors under stress; to recall the conditions under which the incapacity courts and the Social Security Courts receive persons who are litigants; to recall that we still expect, despite the courageous advances made with the Macron law in 2015, that the commercial courts meet the same conventional requirements as the TGIs to which they belong. Thirdly, in the face of these objectives and this observation, we need a budget that is at the same level. A threshold of budgetary acceptability must be crossed as soon as possible. I am sure that you have spared no effort in this direction, Madam Seals. The budget for 2018 is up 3.8%, but it still seems insufficient. In this regard, we would like to make a correction: from 2016 to 2017, we increased the appropriations by €391 million, i.e. 4.8%; From 2017 to 2018, adding the mission's six programs, the increase is 196.55 million, or 2.3%, while growth is back. So we did much better in the 2017 budget than in the 2018 budget. I will make four comments on this. First, the appropriations allocated to the prison administration will decrease by 60 million in 2018 compared to 2017,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u44	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u45	...and the emotion is palpable in this administration. Secondly, as I noted in the enlarged committee, 2100 new jobs were created in 2017, but there will be only 1000 in 2018,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u46	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u47	... while there are still several hundred vacancies. How can we implement these guidelines, which we share, without a massive human resources effort? My third observation was about the costs of justice, but we have already talked about it. Finally, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts announced the postponement of the protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration for the public service as a whole. But Bercy painfully affects justice by this decision. Last week, your ministry's technical committee was boycotted in protest against the postponement of statutory reforms to which agreement had been given at the highest level. In fact, the reform of the chain of command of the prison administration and that of the integration and probation chain – which we discussed so much in the Law Committee in 2016 – are postponed to later. The defence of justice, as we know, does not mobilize the crowds. Our role as parliamentarians is to defend it with you, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Please see in my remarks the shared and sincere concern to serve this cause. I appreciate and share the values that you stand for, but I think we need to go further on budgetary matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u49	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Committee, the Special Rapporteur, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, as several speakers have pointed out, France is the wrong European student in terms of the budget and the staffing of justice. According to the Council of Europe's latest statistics, our country spends about 0.2% of its GDP on justice, compared to an average of 0.33% on a European scale, thus ranking thirty-seventh out of forty-five, and it has 10 professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants, twice the European average. The Government had announced that justice would be one of its priorities, but when we look at announcements and actions, the abyss is blissful. This is all the more problematic because it is an eminently regal field, as justice remains the main counter-power to the possible arbitrariness of the executive. The figures you have announced to us, Minister, are misleading, because they do not relate to the current budget. They would be fair at a constant scope compared to 2017, had they not been transferred to Social Security of the funds corresponding to the inmate's health expenses. In fact, the increase in the justice budget would be only 1.9%, an increase of 123 million euros compared to 2017. This is far too little, especially since 160 million euros were cancelled this summer, much more than the expected increase. I come to the program-by-program analysis. With regard to the Judicial Justice programme, you have planned the recruitment of only 147 magistrates for 2018, whereas at the end of 2016, there were 1000 vacant posts, according to the Union of Trade Union Judges. It is therefore lacking in this budget, at a minimum, close to one in ten magistrates. With regard to the "Correctional Service" programme, you are announcing 15,000 prison places on the quinquennium, and the draft finance bill provides for €26 million for the opening of three new institutions, as well as for the reopening of the health centre in Paris. This is seriously insufficient. Prisons suffer from chronic overcrowding, which mainly affects remand homes, with an average prison density of 130 to 140 per cent. The same applies to the shortage of prison staff: insufficient recruitment has caused an explosion in overtime, with more than 4.3 million overtime hours per year. The 732 recruitments announced are therefore not up to date. More fundamentally, we need to rethink the current prison policy. In January 2016, France had reached an unprecedented rate of detention since the 19th century. However, the development of the detained population is not correlated with that of delinquency. As Jean-Marie Delarue, the previous Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, pointed out: "The common idea that the numbers of imprisoned persons are linked to the state of delinquency in the country must be resolutely removed". Thus, the increase in the population of detainees is mainly linked to criminal policy guidelines. Among the factors contributing to prison inflation in France are: the penalisation of an increasing number of behaviours; the development of rapid trial procedures, such as immediate appearance, which result in a higher rate of conviction to imprisonment; extending the length of sentences; the recent increase in the use of pre-trial detention. This political philosophy – and even this ideology – must be removed from the "whole prison" in which justice has been locked up for too many years, by turning, for example, to a real strategy of developing alternatives to imprisonment. With regard to the 182 "Judicial Protection of Youth" programme, you propose to create only 40 educational jobs for the means of the open environment, which is very few, because it is in this area that the number of staff should be significantly increased. The justice of children and adolescents, as well as the judicial protection of young people, should be strengthened in their basic task of educational monitoring in an open environment or in the home. Care for children in difficulty should be improved, specialized prevention should be improved and its links with the JJP should be made more efficient. With regard to programme 101 "Access to law and justice", it is incomprehensible that the Government has reduced the appropriations for the development of access to law and the local judicial network by €180,000. Again, another policy would be possible by ensuring, for example, the development of access to the law through the creation of new access points through municipal or state structures such as the houses of justice and the law. The budget allocated by the State to the departmental councils on access to the law should also be increased and associations should be supported. Similarly, lawyers working on a voluntary basis in public structures should be paid for the service rendered. Finally, legal aid should be immediately revalued, the access of which should be simplified. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The budget of the "Justice" mission is therefore not at all up to the republican values that we are defending. We are therefore proposing amendments to shed light on the lack of funds and to help the justice system in this country to bend this other Bercy lock, which today prevents us from pursuing a policy worthy of our principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u51	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u52	My question concerns the prison administration's budget, in the current context of unprecedented overcrowding – the average occupancy rate is 139 per cent. It was said today that 1300 inmates were sleeping on a mattress on the floor. We must ensure both the safety of staff and the conditions of detention of the incarcerated population. Beyond the key security issues, we must also work towards the reintegration of the accused. To this end, the policy of individual confinement and the investment in a first wave of new establishments are expected answers, because individual confinement is crucial to avoid any social influence on the desire for reintegration. To be effective, it must also be accompanied by a genuine reintegration policy. The more institutions we create, the more prisons we create, and the more we fill them. Would it not be appropriate to develop alternative penalties? They currently account for only 7 per cent of sentences handed down. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] The President of the Republic today announced his willingness to set up an agency to develop and supervise work of general interest, in particular to combat overcrowding in prisons, but also to participate in the better reintegration of prisoners. Thank you, Minister, for telling us how the creation of this agency could fit into this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u53	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u54	Madam Member, thank you for your question. Like you, I think that beyond the construction of prison places, in the various forms that they will have to take, it is important that we pay particular attention to the multiplication of the possible penalties that judges could impose. I do not use the term "alternative punishments", but I use the term "autonomous punishments". Indeed, we would like to create, not as an alternative to imprisonment, but alongside it, other penalties, including the work of general interest, which you have mentioned. We know today that these are a very satisfactory response to a certain type of infringement, and we want to develop them. The President of the Republic has announced his desire to establish an agency to take charge of this work of general interest, as it is essential to develop foresight in order to find new companies or associations. It is also essential to mobilise local and regional authorities and public administrations on these projects. I would also like the Ministry of Justice to be able to propose work of general interest within it. In this context, it is very important to accompany in an extremely serious and thorough manner the people who will carry out this work of general interest. That's why we're going to deploy this agency. In fact, we are considering giving a parliamentarian and a business manager a small task of reflection on the deployment of this agency. We really want to go in the way you say, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u55	The next speaker is Mr Joaquim Pueyo, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u56	Madam Minister, during your hearing before the Law Committee, you said that French prisons currently host 500 terrorist detainees and 1500 radicalised detainees. Taking into account the decline of Daesh in the Iraqi-Syrian theatres, the number of French returning to France is likely to increase. Penitentiary institutions must be prepared to take care of these individuals as well as to play their role in the detection of prisoners who could shift into radicalization. In October 2016, Jean-Jacques Urvoas announced an ambitious plan to isolate radicalized and dangerous prisoners by creating six radicalisation assessment districts reserved for "detainees whose radicalization is the least constructed". They were required to accommodate a hundred inmates, for assessments that would last for four months. Radicalized inmates with the most dangerous profiles had to be grouped into neighbourhoods that met the highest safety standards. To this end, 300 places were to be provided, including 100 in new areas for violent detainees, in the central houses. Are these measures in place or are decisions still to be taken for the care of these detainees? Unlike other parliamentarians, for my part, I believe that the creation of specialized institutions reserved for radicalized prisoners is not relevant. On the other hand, overpopulation remains the endemic evil of detention centres – as you have said on several occasions. It aggravates the working conditions of staff, as well as the conditions of detention of detainees. It also called into question the meaning of the sentence, which had been set out in 1792 and which had been recalled by various laws: the prison ruled out, protected, but it also had to educate and promote reintegration. A construction plan of 15,000 places was announced, so that individual imprisonment would finally become a reality, as was already foreseen by the law of 5 June 1875. However, the budget for the construction of establishments is falling. Can you tell us the timing and, perhaps, how these future institutions will be managed? In this regard, I appreciate the fact that you are declaring public-private partnerships. As for the neighbourhoods of preparation for exit intended to facilitate integration, I am, of course, in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u57	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u58	Mr President, if I have counted correctly, you are dealing with four different subjects. I will try to answer you extremely briefly, and you will forgive me, because I have only two minutes. First, you address the issue of returning soldiers from the battlefields.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u59	Don't let them come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u60	I'm not going to go into the details, but we distinguish radicalized inmates from returning soldiers. The only thing I can tell you briefly is that the latter are all judicialized. The prosecutor of the Republic, in this case that of Paris, since it is a question of terrorism, decides to place some of these returnees directly in pre-trial detention, and others in judicial custody, if there is appropriate treatment. They're all judiciaries. Secondly, you refer to the treatment of radicalized prisoners, which is another subject. As we had committed ourselves to it, these inmates are assessed when they are detained in radicalization assessment wards. There are currently three of them, and we will open two new ones in 2018 – I am speaking under the scrupulous eye of Mr. Secondly, according to their degree of danger, they are distributed in different prisons, either in complete isolation or in neighbourhoods for violent prisoners. There is currently one, and we will open two new ones in 2018. They may also be cared for in normal detention, and are monitored. Thirdly, you have addressed the question of the meaning of the sentence and, if I have understood correctly, the reintegration, and therefore the follow-up of the detainees. I would just like to remind you that we do want to strengthen the monitoring of prisoners' journeys. That is why we created 150 additional insertion and probation advisers in the 2018 budget, and that we should create about 600 additional insertion and probation counsellors under the programming law. It's a fundamental key.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u61	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u62	I simply have to answer the question on public-private partnerships. Indeed, we stop using this method of management. We are planning a budget of €26 million to start new prison projects with land acquisition and create a few new institutions in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u63	Mr Michel Larive, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u64	Minister, with respect to the Justice Mission, which takes the time to analyze what you are proposing, there are some inconsistencies that we ask you to explain. Chronic prison overcrowding averages between 130% and 140%, and last month there were 1,439 mattresses on the ground in our prisons. You are talking about 15,000 new prison places planned during the quinquennium, while it would be faster and more efficient to develop urgently alternatives to incarceration, which are, moreover, less expensive and decrease the rate of recidivism. Inadequate recruitment of prison staff has caused an explosion of overtime, to more than 4 million each year – 4.2 million in 2014, 4.3 million in 2016. The 732 recruitments you are announcing are therefore ridiculously weak. The workload of the Prison Integration and Probation Advisers, the CPIPs, which provide for the integration of convicted persons, support for judicial decision-making in a logic of individualization of sentences, and follow-up and monitoring of obligations imposed by judges, is denied. It is not uncommon for some of them to follow more than 140 people. You propose to recruit only 150 additional CPIPs for 2018, while at least double it! This budget of misery is not at the level of justice worthy of the Republic. Minister, how will you remedy these inconsistencies?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u65	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u66	Mr President, I fully agree with your analysis: the situation of overcrowding in many prisons is not acceptable. It is totally ineffective in relation to the sense of punishment, dangerous for staff, and therefore for society, and unworthy. I repeat: I absolutely agree with your analysis. That is why I also agree with your conclusions: as I have said to the honourable Member at the moment, we wish to develop other types of penalties, without creating new ones, since our arsenal has a sufficient number of them, in order to allow magistrates to impose sentences other than imprisonment. We share your analysis: this is the objective that we will pursue in the criminal law that I will have the pleasure, honour and advantage of presenting to you at the end of next spring. You also mentioned the insufficient number of prison staff, saying that the 732 additional jobs we have planned are largely insufficient. If you are honest with the reality, Member – and what matters to me is that we are realistic and pragmatic – you will admit that we are currently encountering great difficulties in recruiting and retaining prison staff. We will therefore lead both a work aimed at recruiting the 732 staff who will allow us to open the new prisons at the beginning of the year and an attractive human resources policy which, we hope, will allow us to retain these staff – we will have the opportunity to present various means to the unions that accompany us in the ministerial technical committee. I hope we will meet that expectation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As for your last wish, honourable Member, it will be largely fulfilled. You have pointed out that 150 CPIPs are insufficient: this falls well, since there will be four times more under the programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u67	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u68	I call the appropriations of the "Justice" mission, listed in statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. Amendment No 308 is defended by Mrs Rabault. On this amendment, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. You have the floor, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u69	Madam Minister, I was surprised at your presentation of the budget, because if I go to page 14 of the document you have given us, the payment appropriations amount to €8.739 billion, compared to €8.542 billion in 2017, so the increase is not 3.8% but 2.3%, which is not exactly the same! In addition, the review of the programmes shows that you are planning to reduce the prison administration's appropriations by €57 million in 2018 compared to 2017. We are very surprised: in your reply to Mr Larive, you have already mentioned the existing needs in prison matters. It is therefore inconceivable to us that you will reduce payment appropriations by 57 million euros in 2018 compared to 2017, especially since, as INSEE announced this morning, growth is starting again, which gives you a little more room for manoeuvre than last year or previous years. The aim of this amendment is therefore to increase the appropriations of the prison administration by EUR 50 million, in order to compensate for the EUR 57 million proposed for 2018 compared to 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u70	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u71	The committee did not consider this amendment, which, as Mrs Rabault pointed out, is intended to allow for the recruitment of an additional 1,000 prison guards. While we can understand such a measure, we must, however, reflect on the development of prison policy, a debate which must be based on a necessarily multi-annual perspective. We will come back to this issue in a short time under the Multiannual Programming Act. You guarantee your proposal on the 310 programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u72	Headquarters.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u73	You are aware that the Court of Auditors and several of us have been in favour of strengthening the central administration of the Ministry of Justice for the past two years to enable it to carry out cross-cutting tasks. That is why I personally express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u74	Too bad, I was counting on your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u75	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u76	Madam Member, I do not share your analysis. In 2018, €136 million of funds for the health of prisoners were transferred to Social Security. Perhaps that is the reason for your observation. If this effect is neutralised, the increase in appropriations amounts to 3.9%, as I have previously announced, with an additional EUR 329 million on the Justice mission. The increase in appropriations for the Prison Service programme amounts to €77 million, including pensions, or 2.1%. I have an unfavorable opinion on your amendment. The 2018 budget provides for the creation of 480 supervisory posts to allow the opening of the prisons that I mentioned in my reply to Mr Larive. If the previous government had planned additional job creation, it did not succeed in recruiting staff for the reasons I developed. I prefer to be realistic in providing for the means of personnel that we actually need and that we know how to recruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u77	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u78	The purpose of this amendment is to provide you with resources, including in your discussions with trade union organisations. I would like to take the example of the prison in Le Havre, which is brand new: since it was built, it has never reached its intended strength in a sustainable manner. As soon as it is reached, the institution has to deal with requests for transfer, so that it is again understaffed. The number of trained personnel is insufficient. To train them and, above all, to attract candidates, it is necessary to make this profession attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u80	However, for decades, successive governments have been skinning public servants by explaining that there is too much and that it is necessary to degrease to achieve savings. In addition, the least considered public service is the prison service. It is therefore necessary to reconsider this profession by putting in place means to make it attractive and value it, in particular through wages and working conditions. I repeat, the purpose of this amendment is both to give you the means to make this profession attractive and to provide you with a tool in your discussions with the trade unions, to which you can state that Parliament has given you the means to work with them to improve this profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u81	I put to the vote Amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u82	The right has an opposition problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u83	Above all, it has a quorum problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u84	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u85	As a symbol of the worrying situation in French prisons, Fleury-Mérogis deplored an occupancy rate of around 180% in September 2016. In 2017, France reached an alarming record with 69,430 detainees for only 58664 operational places. This explosive overpopulation is a breeding ground for all excesses, violence and deals, as well as Islamic radicalization. Prison staff, on the other hand, are at a standstill. His agents or their families are sometimes threatened with death. The attacks are numerous, too numerous. The latest one, reported by the press, took place on 19 September in Amiens. The words of one of the guards in this prison are hard, but fair: "We must make these bandits understand that they are at home and that it is now blood for blood. You don't touch one of us with impunity. It is time to stop the hemorrhage and this requires severe disciplinary sanctions." If the prison of Fleury-Merogis is emblematic, it is that it is the largest in Europe. But the issue of overcrowding concerns all prisons, including the one in Béziers, in my constituency, which has about 1000 inmates, although it is planned to contain 809. While it has been built for just five years, the overpopulation rate is already 120%. Even more worrying is the fact that the more prisons are full, the less staff there are sometimes. In Béziers, there were only 183 guards in 2016 against the 203 regulations. The former seal guard, Jean-Jacques Urvoas, recognized the urgent need to build between 10,000 and 16,000 additional individual cells. Where are we? In the face of a situation that is not exaggerated to call deplorable, I propose that you give us the means to build a sufficient number of prison places, because an offender behind bars is an offender whose French are safe. For this reason, I propose a transfer to the construction of 25 million euro prison places from the social action for the staff of the Ministry of Justice, which envisages spending 4.6 million for housing and 6.19 million for holidays.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u86	That's a far-right proposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u88	Nor has the committee considered this amendment, which aims to reduce the appropriations for Action 10 of the "Driving and piloting of justice policy" programme, in order to provide the necessary resources for the construction of prison places. Our colleague justifies his initiative with the observation of a persistent, real prison overcrowding. However, this transfer is questionable. The reduction in the resources of the proposed 310 programme will not solve the major problem that you are referring to. Beyond the necessary strengthening of institutional capacity and possible reflection on alternatives to confinement, we need to think of a coherent prison policy that will draw lessons from the implementation of prison-building programmes launched over the past 30 years. The nation's effort must be continued over the long term: simply redeploying funds within the mission is not the right solution to the real difficulty you mention. That is why I personally express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u90	I also express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment, which seeks to abolish the appropriations from social action to transfer them to the prison administration, when we have at the moment established the difficulty of recruiting prison staff and the low attractiveness of this profession. That is why we are also counting on the funding of social action to combat this low attractiveness. These funds are used to set aside housing in regions where the supply of housing is strained, such as the Paris region or the PACA region, to offer it to prison staff, of whom we know and the low remuneration and, I repeat, the difficulty of recruiting them. It would therefore be a serious mistake to make the new distribution that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u91	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u92	Madam Keeper of the Seals, the draft budget you are presenting provides for budget support of EUR 395 million for legal aid. The increase in spending is therefore lower than the nominal growth rate provided for in the Finance Bill, which is 2.9 per cent if one adds 1.1 per cent inflation to the 1.8 per cent planned real growth. Amendment No 312 is therefore intended to give a small boost to the legal aid budget line, bringing it to EUR 415 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u95	Again, the committee has not voted on this amendment, so I will speak in my personal capacity. As Mrs Rabault said, Amendment No 312 proposes to increase the budget allocation for legal aid from EUR 395 million to EUR 415 million. However, as the special report shows, the PLF for 2018 already foresees an increase of 8.71 % in the appropriations for legal aid, which has reached an unprecedented level since 2013. This programming clearly takes into account the effects of the reform initiated in 2015. At the time, many observers had already expressed doubts as to the budgetary sustainability of the expenditure they were almost mechanically inducing. In December 2016, the Court of Auditors concluded that there was a need to review the financing arrangements and the legal aid scheme itself. I very much agree with this view, which I have developed in my report, and I do not think that this public policy can be based on an endless increase in budgetary resources. I will defend an amendment to reform legal aid, which the committee unfortunately rejected. Personally, I give an unfavorable opinion to Amendment No 312, because I believe that the entire legal aid system needs to be reformed instead of continuing to increase its budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u97	I fully agree with the Special Rapporteur. I have already announced the establishment of an inspection mission on this subject: we will therefore wait until we receive the findings of this mission, in a few weeks' time, to completely review the legal aid mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u98	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u99	I would like to draw the attention of Mrs Custody to certain abuses in legal aid, particularly with regard to legal persons and associations. I have an example in mind. People with significant financial resources joined forces to attack a building permit; Since the amount of contributions is very low, this association is entitled to legal aid. However, the contested building permit was issued by a municipality in 2008 for an investment of 20 million euros with some 50 jobs at the key! After successive judgements by the first instance court, the Administrative Court of Appeal and the Council of State, the proceedings are still pending. All these appeals are made at the taxpayer's expense, while the claim is manifestly unfounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u100	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u101	While the payment appropriations for the Justice Mission are on the increase, which I welcome, I am concerned about the decrease in the allocation of the Prison Service program. Indeed, the French prison park is known for its old age and its conditions of detention contrary to the most fundamental of human rights. In a great country like ours, it is not worth living twenty hours a day, sometimes three, in a cell of 9 square meters often unsanitary and old. The last report of the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty highlighted the fact that overcrowding remains the main challenge faced by the prison administration. What are the specific intentions of the Government in this regard? That's the question! In our budgetary debates, let us take these problems into account by focusing on improving conditions of detention. Let us not forget that all prisoners are destined to leave prison and reintegrate. Successful reintegration must even be the primary objective of prison policy! This is why the humanisation of prison conditions, which makes this reintegration a priority, must be a priority. I urge the Government to keep in mind that investing in this area also helps to prevent the risk of recidivism. The introduction of video surveillance and often indispensable security tools will never replace investment in human rights. Amendment No 264 is therefore intended to abound the prison administration's budget by just over EUR 1.7 million in order to improve prison conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u103	My dear colleague, your amendment has two parts. First of all, you refer to the difficulties facing the prison community today: it is a reality that no one here will deny and that I myself will not deny as Special Rapporteur on the credits of the Justice mission. Nevertheless, in line with the budgetary year, your amendment makes a redeployment of appropriations: in order to increase the resources of the prison administration, you reduce the allocations of the programmes "Direction and control of the policy of the justice" and "Superior Council of the Magistracy". As the Court of Auditors' report points out, the Ministry of Justice must encourage cross-cutting actions between its various Directorates-General, which must involve strengthening its Secretariat-General. However, the Ministry of Justice is probably one of those with the weakest function of the General Secretariat, which in recent years has led to a number of significant budget drifts, particularly with regard to Cassiopee and Portalis software. Not only would your amendment not solve the problem of the prison administration, it would also risk amplifying existing problems elsewhere. The committee has not voted on Amendment No 264, but I personally give it an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u105	Disadvantaged too. Here again, I share the arguments of the Special Rapporteur. I would add that the effort for the maintenance and maintenance of prison buildings increased in 2017 and will continue in 2018. A budget of EUR 81 million is foreseen to finance maintenance and major maintenance or securing operations of the establishments. To this will be added major renovation or reconstruction operations: I had the opportunity to mention earlier the health detention centre, but let me also mention the demolition and reconstruction of the prison centres of Bordeaux-Gradignan, Lille-Loos and the detention centre of Basse-Terre. So you can see that many operations are planned. We will of course continue this work of renovation and maintenance of real estate. It also seems to me that the transfer of appropriations that you are proposing is not sustainable, since I find it difficult to achieve a reduction of more than 15% in the appropriations of the Higher Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u106	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u107	Of course, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary may not be the right place to recover credit, but our country must give itself the means of the rule of law it claims to be. You may recall that we have been condemned by the Council of Europe because of the delays in our prison policy – this is not a challenge to your own policy, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Following this condemnation, a first wave of considerable investments was made, but it was almost a "Marshall Plan" of justice that was necessary, in order to use a phrase passed in common language. However, there is a sense that justice is still being managed in the same way as another ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u109	We're leaving from afar! The situation is deteriorating, but it is a matter of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u111	We must not be content with failure – failure is when we are forced to put individuals in prison. People in detention must be able to go out in good condition, if I may say so, to lead a normal life again. The best way to do this is to put staff in prisons, but also to open penitentiaries to outside life in order to start preparing for the reintegration of prisoners. This requires resources, not necessarily in terms of staff, but in terms of budgetary appropriations, because it is necessary to pay for associations or outside actors who come to bring prisoners into contact with external life. We are both looking for credits, but we must keep this state of mind in mind. I noted that the Republican Group was in opposition but that, as an individual, its members were a little in the majority. The Special Rapporteur should support amendments aimed at improving the functioning of justice and empowering it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u113	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u114	The figures are unchallenged, unquestionable and disturbing. Four out of five French people feel insecure. According to the Council of Europe, France has 10.7 professional judges and 2.9 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, while the European average is 21 judges and 11.8 prosecutors. You understand: we have twice as many judges and four times as many prosecutors as the European average. At the end of 2016, thirty-four TGIs took more than a year to deal with civil proceedings; Forty-eight other courts took almost a year – eleven and a half months on average – to deal with ever more technical cases. In my department, Hérault, the magistrates tried 76821 crimes, offences and acts of delinquency last year. How is this possible when 14 per cent of civil servants are vacant and 22.5 per cent of magistrates are not filled in my constituency in the TGI in Béziers? The courts and the justice system must no longer be in a state of shortage, old age, understaffed people, slowness, poor treatment for depression and what do I still know... "Asking for victory and not having the intention of fighting, I find it poorly elevated," said Charles Péguy. I therefore propose the opposite: we must fight this justice out of breath, so that the long time of justice is no longer a long time for the delinquents, so that justice is given to the victims, so that our magistrates are no longer the great forgotten of the Republic. Amendment No 106 is therefore intended to transfer EUR 1 million to the 166 "Judicial Justice" programme in order to meet Objective 1 "Improving the quality and efficiency of justice".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u116	Once again, this amendment has not been discussed by the committee, so I will speak in my personal capacity. Mrs Ménard, you have no doubt heard the arguments that I was developing at the moment in response to Amendment No 264 by our colleagues Michel Castellani, Jean-Félix Acquaviva and Paul-André Colombiani. The argument is the same. Personally, I give an opinion against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u118	Disadvantaged too. I would just like to clarify the vacancies. We estimate that 400 judicial posts are currently vacant and that approximately 850 clerk posts will be vacant. Our ambition is that at the end of the period covered by the programming law, no more posts will be vacant. To do this, we must take into account the judges who will come to court in 2018 – who were recruited in 2015, given their training time. Taking into account the number of judges recruited in 2015 and the retirements – which can only be estimated –, 163 additional magistrates are expected to be present in the courts. So we are starting to gradually fill the holidays – which are obviously, despite all the efforts made, the result of the previous quinquennats. Similarly, 1225 directors of the judicial registry services and intern clerks are being trained. Their arrival in court will help, by reducing retirements, to reduce vacations. Our ambition is, therefore, first of all, with the recruitments that are taking place and that are continuing, to succeed in filling the vacancies. This phenomenon will be accentuated by the other measures we have also indicated: digitization, dematerialization and diversion, which help to refocus judges and clerks on the core of their tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u119	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u120	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u121	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u122	I will withdraw this amendment after the discussion, but I would like to see a clarification from the minister on the computer programme, which has a budget of EUR 191 million. It is well known, in order to take examples in other ministries, that the experiences of Louvois software or personal medical records have not always been very conclusive in terms of computer realization. The purpose of this amendment is, Madam Minister, to ask you for some clarification on how the EUR 191 million will be committed for 2018, including the guarantees that this computer system that everyone needs can work by avoiding the pitfalls that we have encountered with other systems – such as Louvois at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u124	Dear colleague, you're pointing at a real difficulty. It is true that, given the sums involved, this amendment is rather an appeal amendment allowing for discussion. It is clear that the computer question is essential and you are raising it quite rightly. There are a number of us who find that this is the weak point of the Ministry of Justice, which is also very late at the international level. You yourself said that you wanted to hear the Minister's opinion. For my part, since the committee has not spoken on this amendment, I rely on the wisdom of the House or give a favourable opinion, because the sums redeployed are not enormous and we are many who consider that the Ministry of Justice should take this problem in arms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u126	Yes, Mr Hetzel, I really want to take this problem with my arms. This is really a crucial issue for me. It is also a question of credibility because, among the work of the judiciary, Mrs Rabault, I would like, as I have already had the opportunity to say, to work on the simplification of civil procedure and criminal procedure, but it will only make sense if this simplification leads to digitised procedures that will really save time, energy and readability. To answer your question very precisely, at this stage – but things are getting better from day to day – the portal of the single reception service of the litigant, which exists in the courts, will be deployed from April 2018 and will allow the agents of the reception services of the litigant to access directly online to the status of all civil or criminal proceedings of an applicant, which will obviously be important. As of September 2018, the litigants themselves will be able to access their proceedings directly from the justice.fr portal and follow their status. Through this portal, they will be able to access the schedule of hearings that concern them and the notification of certain events, such as the filing of submissions. They will also be able to receive summonses, with – which I think is very useful, as I have had the opportunity to say elsewhere – alerts and reminders of calls for SMS hearings, which allow, as experience has shown, to prevent some people from going to hearings, resulting in loss of time and referrals. Finally, in 2018 we aim to develop a secure platform for the exchange of voluminous documents, which will also facilitate dematerialised exchanges, including access to the dematerialised sending of recommended mail. We therefore have very concrete objectives. I would also like us to be able to reach a conclusion in 2018 with regard to electronic signature, which is absolutely essential. We therefore have very specific ambitions, which require massive investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u127	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u128	I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u129	I have before me a number of amendments, including additional articles after Rule 57. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u130	This amendment concerns the financing of the High Council of the Office of the Auditing Commissioner – H3C. Following a European audit reform that took place in 2016 and transposed in France the same year, the aim is to provide this institution with adequate funding to carry out its new tasks. Indeed, the H3C has always been financed by the auditors in a rather complex way. A new system has therefore been introduced, which is now based on contributions: a first one due by all auditors on the fees they charge to the entities whose accounts they certify and a second one due on the fees charged to public interest entities. This new method of funding has been the subject of extensive consultation with the profession. The amount of these contributions will, of course, be capped, like all assigned revenues, when we consider the first part of the finance bill in the Senate. That is the amendment that I would like to see adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u132	The commission had expressed an unfavourable opinion on the amendment and asked the Government to present the arguments justifying the new mechanism. I, for my part, had indicated during the discussion that, as rapporteur, I was not in a personal capacity opposed to this amendment on its substance, but that clarification was needed. These clarifications have been made in the meantime. The only point on which I still had a doubt was whether the scheme had been drawn up in good consultation with the professionals concerned. However, the minister has just indicated to the bench that this consultation with the professionals had taken place. In my personal capacity, therefore, I now issue a favourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u133	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u134	I would point out at the outset that, when the committee examined this amendment, the committee delivered an unfavourable opinion. In accordance with the rule, however, I will present it: legislative translation of proposal 103 of Philippe Bas's report, it aims to restore the contribution for legal aid, deleted by the law of 29 December 2013. This question prolongs the debate we had a few moments ago with Mrs Rabault: if we agree with the diagnosis that the funding of legal aid is a problem, the answers we are giving are, on the other hand, not exactly the same – it is, to answer the honourable Member who was asking me earlier on this point, the reason for my opinion against the amendment which she defended on the subject. In this case, Mrs Rabault proposed an increase in the legal aid budget, while our amendment tends to restore a contribution. Financing was provided for in the past: it is a matter of restoring them here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u136	Madam President, Mr Hetzel, I am sending an unfavourable opinion because, as I have already indicated – forgive me for repeating myself – I really want to wait for the conclusions of the double inspection mission to examine all the available tools and palette, including the measure you are referring to. We will see how the issue will be dealt with and what can lead to a truly structured and consensual proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u137	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u138	The Act of 29 July 2011 introduced a lump-sum contribution for litigants, in any case for those who do not receive legal aid. This provision was deleted in 2013. It is important to recall today that we must preserve the principle of free justice, in any case as much as possible, because it allows access to the judge in particular, which is expected by the litigants. Another important element is that, at the time, this measure had aroused intense debate in the judicial world. It would therefore be very unwise to go back to the detour of an amendment. Indeed, I agree with the minister's remarks: the legal aid issue requires a substantive reflection, that is, a real reflection, which must take into account the work entrusted to the General Inspectorate of Justice and the General Inspectorate of Finance. We must therefore wait for the outcome of the work of these bodies, which can tell us concrete steps, which we all expect. It is not by voting today that we can take such steps.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u139	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u140	The debate is about whether or not legal aid should be free of charge. However, the scheme that previously existed was in the range of 20 to 50 euros: this is, you will agree, a rather symbolic contribution. The will it expresses is to warn that a logic of total gratuity can also have certain perverse effects. Above all, we can see the drift, which has been reported by other colleagues in the Chamber. You are therefore right to say that the debate must continue and it is certain that we will have the opportunity to return to it when we examine the multiannual programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u141	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u142	The committee objected to this amendment. This is again a translation of Philippe Bas's information report in the Senate. Its purpose is to consult a lawyer in advance of the filing of an application for legal aid, with the exception of actions for which the defendant is a defendant or, in criminal matters, applications for provisional admission to legal aid because of their urgency. It aims to make effective the filter currently provided for in article 7 of the Law of 10 July 1991 on Legal Aid, which is currently not applied. This article provides that legal aid shall be granted to a person whose action does not appear manifestly inadmissible or unfounded. Such consultation would be remunerated as an act of legal aid, provided that the applicant for the aid fulfils the conditions other than those relating to the merits of his action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u143	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u144	Unfavorable opinion. A lawyer's consultation, why not? We even recommend it, if necessary. Mandatory consultation seems to me a little more delicate: it does not necessarily fit into a vision of simplifying access to the law. I therefore hope that, in the context of the general reform of legal aid, the overall picture will be reflected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u146	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u147	I hear the arguments put forward by the minister. This subject must indeed be discussed in detail, which is why I agree to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u148	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u149	This amendment is also a repetition of a proposal made by Senator Bas. The aim of this proposal is to improve the application of the subsidiarity principle, whereby legal aid is granted only if the costs of the applicant's action are not already covered by assuring legal protection. The aim is to avoid mobilising public funds, while there is also funding. That, in my view, could help reduce the taxpayer's contribution to legal aid. In order to be fully transparent, I would point out that when we debated this amendment in committee, it gave an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u150	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u151	This amendment gave rise to a negative opinion of the committee. This is a translation of proposal No 109 of the Bas report: it aims to improve the rate of recovery of sums paid to the beneficiary of legal aid as a result of a decision to withdraw the aid or to the party ordered to pay the costs or who loses his trial, since the latter is not a beneficiary of legal aid, by entrusting this recovery to the Treasury. In practice, the withdrawal of legal aid is only rarely ordered – it represents about 0.1% of the annual number of admissions – and, when it is, the sums are recovered in only 3 or 4 % of cases. This therefore raises a problem of sound management of public funds, which is why I tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u153	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons as those announced earlier: we must carry out a complete reflection. I would like to pay tribute to the honesty and transparency of Mr Hetzel, who, on the one hand, quite rightly tells us that his amendments are recaptures of the Bas report, an extremely interesting and valuable report, and, on the other hand, points out that the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion. I therefore salute the double honesty, but I still express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u154	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 193.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u155	When trade unions such as the Syndicat de la Magistrature, such as the Syndicat de la Magistrature, denounce the particularly degraded human and financial situation of the French justice system – to the point of speaking of "paupérisation de la Justice" – this must make us react. Indeed, the figures are already very worrying when we compare French justice with that of its European neighbours. According to the latest Council of Europe statistics, and more specifically the European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice, France ranks thirty-seventh out of forty-five for the share of GDP devoted to justice, with about 0.2% of GDP compared to 0.33% on the European average. Our country also has twice as many judges per capita as the European average: 10.7 professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants, as against 20.92 on the European average and 24.7 for Germany. This calls on us and should also challenge you. Justice is clearly under-educated. The most shocking examples are obviously the degraded and unsanitary courts: the Republic has abandoned these territories and the citizens who are there. In this context, the proposed report aims to take stock of the current situation of justice and the means that must be allocated to it in order for the third power to carry out its constitutional tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u157	The purpose of this amendment is to provide a report on the lack of human and financial resources for judicial justice. I will reply, in a somewhat trivial way, that this situation is already widely known, alas. As you know, a body within the Council of Europe is working specifically on this issue; Several of you, both in the drafting of the amendments and in the debates we have had, have referred to the Council of Europe's rankings on this subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u159	I also express an opinion against the proposed amendment, firstly for a general reason: we cannot multiply the reports in the finance law. The purpose of the law is to have an effective normative scope and not to multiply reports on different subjects. That is why I do not find it desirable in general; My comment will also be valid for the forthcoming amendments. Furthermore, on the substance of the question put by the honourable Member, we are of course aware of the difficulties facing the courts – I will not go back to that point. The current government's ambition, along the lines of previous governments, is precisely to empower justice to cope with the difficulties identified, but also to transform itself in depth. One will not go without the other and the law of programming that I will present to you will reflect this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u160	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u161	The minister has just told us that she had a position of principle. The same applies to me: we are considering a number of almost identical amendments: all lead to a request for a report from the Government, with each amendment focusing on a specific subject. My point of principle will therefore be valid for all the amendments concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u162	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 192.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u163	We request these reports from the Government because the exercise of the budget debate forces us to do so: we do not have the means to make more concrete proposals under article 40 of the Constitution. We also believe that it is necessary, on a number of issues, to assess needs and costs fairly accurately, in order to anticipate a number of proposals which we do not think are sufficient; This is the subject of the report we are asking for in this amendment. France was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the inhuman and degrading treatment of its detainees; Several speakers recalled this during this debate, deploring the overcrowding and the burden this places on staff. We must give ourselves the means to assess urgently the investments needed to ensure that the prison system respects basic human rights, in accordance with the principles that we all defend. The purpose of this report is therefore to obtain precise figures, since the various existing reports do not answer this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u165	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u167	Very briefly, without the need for a new report, I invite you to read the speech that the President of the Republic delivered today before the European Court of Human Rights precisely on the issue of prison overcrowding and the means that we are going to implement to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u168	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u169	I guess the opinion will still be unfavorable, but it's no big deal! An emergency plan for the financial and human resources of justice is needed. In comparison to our neighbours, France is a bad pupil and a cruel lack of magistrates. The courts are being shut down and the proceedings are dragging on. The 2018 Justice Budget tends to neglect and under-evaluate real needs and challenges. We are therefore presenting this amendment in order to have the opportunity to assess these needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u170	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u171	The President of the Republic has certainly already responded this afternoon, but, locked up in the Chamber and working from committee to committee, we have not been able to read the content of her speech, Madam Minister. The purpose of this amendment is to raise awareness of the problem of the public prison service. There is a need for a clear overall view of the workforce problem as the number of overtime hours is exploding. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to highlight the working conditions of employees and the service provided in our prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u172	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u173	First of all, I would like to say that the reports we are requesting from the Government are not intended to compete with the work of the National Assembly but to complement them. What we want are precise and quantified elements on the budgetary dimension of a particular subject – justice in this case. This amendment aims at producing an information report on ill-treatment, inhuman and degrading treatment of prisoners and all prison staff, which also reflects the deplorable health conditions of some prisons. Violence in detention – harassment, blackmail, physical and moral violence – has become commonplace, to the detriment of prisoners as well as prison staff. This situation does not allow the State to carry out its task of rehabilitating and preventing recidivism. In addition to this climate of violence there are degraded health conditions, which are similar to inhuman treatment and which generate additional costs for lack of good management – I am thinking of the cost of deratisation contracts for example. France has been repeatedly condemned for the state of its prisons and everyone agrees to denounce these unacceptable conditions. We want to respond effectively to this problem, the solution of which is not the increase in the number of places. The objective of this report is to enable an assessment of the cost to public finances of an integral set of standards for the prevention of such violations of human dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u175	The committee did not deliver its opinion, but in my personal capacity I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u177	I also express an unfavorable opinion. I would simply like to point out that the prison administration is one of the most controlled administrations, either by the Defender of Rights or by the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty, which, when one or the other observes malfunctions, immediately seizes extremely detailed reports to which we respond as soon as possible and with great concern for precision. We are extremely controlled and monitored. This does not exclude the difficulties you raise, of course, but disciplinary sanctions – even criminal ones, if necessary – already apply. However, I do not question the difficulties that you have raised, which are related to overcrowding in prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u178	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u179	As in previous years, this amendment is intended to produce an information report, in accordance with section 34 of the Financial Laws Organization Act. Pending the fulfilment of President Macron's promises, we hope to have at least a cost estimate for public finances of the use of public-private partnerships. We are very pleased to learn that we will no longer have recourse to it, but it seems to us important to have a precise account of the cost of this type of procedure for public finances. That is why we want Parliament to have objective and clear information that can be used in other areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u181	The committee did not speak on the matter, as the amendment was not submitted to it. I would simply like to invite you, my dear colleague, to take note of the analysis note on the budgetary implementation of the "Justice" mission relating to 2016 which was published in 2017 by the Court of Auditors: there you will find the information you are asking about PPPs, which are largely dealt with there. Since your request is satisfied, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u183	Same comment as Mr. Hetzel's. Your wishes are orders, Madam Member, since we will probably have, by next month, a thematic report from the Court of Auditors on prison real estate, including a specific section on PPPs where you will find the information you want and which will obviously be very useful to us. [["Congratulation! » on the benches of the GDR group]] I reiterate here that we will no longer use PPPs in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u184	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 187.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u185	The purpose of this amendment is to produce an information report on the lack of recourse to mechanisms to enforce its rights before the courts. Many people do not have access to justice, not only because of lack of resources but also because of lack of information. The report should make it possible to assess the phenomenon and create all the conditions for everyone to have access to a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u187	In my personal capacity, the committee has not given its opinion, and it has not given its opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u188	On Amendment No 186, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u189	The purpose of this amendment is to produce an information report on the recruitment and retention of the prison administration's supervisory staff and its command body. Cascading sickness, burn-out, resignations, suicides, the ills affecting prison staff have been numerous for too long. The status quo is no longer possible. For too long, successive governments have forgotten the essential nature of the rehabilitation mission carried out by prison supervisors. They are the first artisans because they are in daily contact with convicted persons. To change the power relations that exist in detention, it is necessary to renew the approach and to conduct a real reflection on the supervisory and supervisory professions. It is no longer possible to leave a young supervisor barely out of school to handle movements of more than 130 inmates. With this system, we are endangering civil servants and, beyond that, our ideal of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u191	Work is under way on this issue, which has obviously attracted the attention of the prison administration, and we will probably soon have an opportunity to discuss it in the context of the review of the Multiannual Programming Act. That is why I would like to propose that you withdraw this amendment, otherwise I will issue an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity, since the committee has not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u193	The question you are asking, honourable Member, is extremely serious, and we have had the opportunity to say so on several occasions this evening. To recruit and retain the prison staff we need, the administration is putting in place a strategy to strengthen the attractiveness of these professions. It is based on five pillars: a more active communication and public relations strategy to improve the image of these professions and attract candidates; the continuation of statutory and compensatory reforms, which are an extremely important issue and are aimed at ensuring, again, greater attractiveness through better recognition of the difficulties in the exercise of these professions which you yourself have identified; the development of a process of retention of agents in territories that are in difficulty for various reasons; better forecast management of jobs and skills; the recasting of initial and continuing training. We hope that all these measures will provide sufficient incentives to pursue these jobs in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u194	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u195	We know too much about what "compensatory measures" mean. Why not talk about basic salaries, rather than promise bonuses to compensate for such or such difficulties? This is also the problem of prisons: the salary scale is not the most attractive in the civil service, whose jobs are not already the best paid in the country. That is also the point of this amendment: that the issue of salaries is the sixth part of your draft discussion with trade union organisations on attractiveness. With regard to such a difficult occupation, it is necessary to start with a good salary and not only by means of bonuses that we recognise the difficulty of this occupation because everyone knows that bonuses are not taken into account in calculating retirement. We need to be able to make real careers in this profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u196	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u197	I agree with Mr Lecoq on the substance, but I do not agree on the form. Since Mrs Ménard's amendment, there has been a succession of amendments which have nothing to do with a PLF. We are content to deplore the situation of the prison, the shortage of staff and to deliver speeches which I think are very utopian. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Neither I nor all Members of Parliament on the March will vote in favour of these successive requests for information reports, which are sometimes used only to set up cabinets. I invite all depositors of these amendments to look at what is being done and what will be done, particularly in the context of the next programming bill, and to trust our minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u198	Ah! I'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u199	There wouldn't be much left of our control mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u200	I put to the vote Amendment No 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u201	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u202	It seems that a small reminder is necessary. The exercise we are carrying out this evening is part of the budget debate, since Article 34 of the LOLF allows Parliament to request reports from the Government on a number of budget issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u204	If we have to ask for these reports, it is because Article 40 of the Constitution deprives us of any possibility of making more concrete proposals. It also seems to me that Parliament's role is to monitor the Government's actions and ensure that the laws are properly enforced. I therefore believe that we are fully in our role in this extremely serious budgetary debate. And it is still an extremely serious issue that integration and probation counsellors and the impact on public finances of the need to recruit counsellors. As you know, the tasks of the integration and probation services are structured around three essential areas: the integration of convicted persons, assistance in judicial decision-making with a view to individualising sentences and the monitoring and monitoring of obligations imposed by judges. The continuity of the follow-up between detention and what is known as the "open environment" is one of the major challenges in the fight against recidivism. This link between the "inside" and the "outside" must be at the heart of the Government's security policy. However, the fulfilment of this mission is compromised by the reality of the burden of the integration and probation officers, which is a denial. As a reminder, it is not uncommon for an agent to follow more than 140 people on his own. You will agree that, as it stands, it is not possible to talk about a true accompanying work. This also leads many agents to turn away from these professions, which are essential for our democracy in that they ensure the social and human rehabilitation of the people indispensable for the success of the prison project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u206	As you know, the committee has not voted on this amendment, which we are now discussing in the House. We know that a multi-year programming law will be presented to us in the coming months. This will be an opportunity to benefit from an impact assessment comprising a number of indicators, including those of this type. Again, my proposal is very simple: we know that this law will be presented, that the debate will take place, that the information will be communicated to us. Your request is therefore already met. I propose that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will personally issue an opinion against its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u208	Opinions were also unfavourable. Madam Member, for your information, I would like to remind you of the importance I attach to the work carried out by the integration and probation staff – I have had the opportunity to speak on this point. Also know that we are working with these staff to redefine the framework for their interventions. A first work will be subject to a thorough dialogue with them on 7 November and will continue thereafter. We therefore collectively undertake a real construction project. In addition, the programming law will provide for new job creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u209	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u210	We come to the end of the debate and I would like to stress that the real democratic opposition is still present in the Chamber. On the other hand, that which occupies all the seats, including those of the Vice-Presidents in the near future, is almost absent – except for the Special Rapporteur – which is a bit regrettable on a subject as important as justice. The minister, who says "programming law" says time staggering, but this evening we have shown each other how urgent it is to act. A programming law can contain a lot of devices in the first year, then, as things are complicated to achieve, eventually sluggish – something we can understand. How do you envisage it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u211	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 184.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u212	Perhaps you have read the explanatory memorandum for this amendment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I arrived this morning at the National Assembly after ten hours of flight. At La Reunion, it is currently three o'clock in the morning. You will understand that it is not a sinecure to come here, tired, to play his role as an opponent: we do it, with my colleagues, because we were elected by the people for it. It is not utopian to play its role as a defender of the interests of the French population! It is never utopian to defend those who suffer, those who demand better working conditions! It is never utopian to defend the poorest and most disadvantaged of us even though you do not belong to this world! It is never utopian to carry out the work for which we were elected, my dear friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u214	The same causes with the same effects, again, I propose that our colleague withdraw his amendment, otherwise, in my personal capacity, I will deliver an opinion which is unfavourable to its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u215	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 183, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u216	Which will play its role as a member of the opposition. The purpose of this amendment is to publish an information report presenting the budget management for each sentence adjustment measure and alternative to incarceration. The Government claims to pursue a policy of developing sentencing arrangements and alternatives to incarceration by arguing for an increase in the budget of the "Justice" mission, but the one presented to us is in fact on the decline with regard to sentencing arrangements, which is the most effective policy to combat recidivism, thus ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens. Evidence of this is the decrease in the out-of-pocket investment budget by 35% between the 2017 and 2018 FLPs. More generally, this budget does not allow Parliament to control the Government's action in favour of this policy in a budgetary way: no comprehensive elements on measures to adjust sentences, nothing on alternative measures to imprisonment such as community service – the TIG – and what about forced release? There is a need to emerge from outspoken discourses that give the leaders that we are well aware of in order to assume the reality of the inadequacies of the current policy on the development of sentences.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u218	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] My dear colleague, this amendment has not been discussed in committee. In addition, the minister spoke a few moments ago and said that we will be debating a multi-year programming law on justice and criminal policy in a few months' time. Therefore, the elements you mention will obviously be on the table and supported by an impact assessment. You now propose to adopt an amendment to produce them; Perhaps it is a failure to trust the Government, which I understand very well, being like you in the opposition. However, at some point, there is no need for systematic distrust of our institutions – of which we know how to operate – even when we are part of the opposition! That is the opinion of the Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u220	If you will allow me, Madam President, and as we are discussing the last amendment tabled this evening, I would like to reply to Mr Larive, whose comments on the budgetary management of measures to adapt sentences and alternatives to detention seem to me to be quite satisfied, which is why I am not in favour of adopting his amendment. If, at EUR 17 million, the budget for the development of the electronic bracelet has indeed fallen a little, it is because – I have had the opportunity to say so in the enlarged committee – we have changed our market and we have thus won a few hundred thousand euros. On the other hand, the provisions on the electronic bracelet still allow 11000 people to be placed under surveillance, which seems satisfactory to me. It is 7 million that are spent on external investment, which is perfectly suited to the number of measures currently being taken, even if we will probably have to change things. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, since I have the floor, I would like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Lecoq on the continuation of the financial effort – if I have understood the meaning of his question. I had the opportunity to say this: the increase will be 3.9% in 2018, 4.3% in 2019 and 5.1% in 2020. I hope that this way, Mr Lecoq, you will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u221	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u222	I'm going to play my role as a member of the majority. I, too, took the train this morning at six o'clock, and it was very long. I too, like all of you, have seen many debates in committee, in group meetings. I did, too, my dear friends. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In addition, I am not questioning your role as opposition members – which I welcome this evening, in contrast to the total absence of Members sitting in front of me – but rather the way in which you describe the Members of the majority. Basically, we're the bad guys, we don't understand anything, we're against everything, and you're the great humanists! The French have understood very well what is happening: we are 313 and you are 17! That's the most eloquent answer we can give you tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u223	Beware of hegemony!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u224	We completed the review of the Justice Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-31-O1035.u225	Next sitting, Thursday, 2 November, at 9:30 a.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: review of the appropriations of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs"; review of the appropriations of the special account "Agricultural and rural development". The meeting is adjourned.
