ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u1	The next item is the discussion, on a further reading, of the 2017 amending finance bill (No. 371, 376).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u3	Madam President, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, if we are meeting in the Chamber today for a new reading of this first amending finance bill – PLFR – on the introduction of an additional contribution to corporate tax – IS – this is because, as you know, the Senate did not vote on Article 1 of this text. I know this is a difficult political decision. We call on our large companies to make a significant effort, but this effort is necessary to ensure the stability of our public finances and the fulfilment of our European commitments. When it comes to EUR 10 billion and the nation's accounts, it is legitimate to question the maintenance of a tax that has been the subject of a European Union notice since February 2015. When the absence of liability results in the loss of such a quantity of public money, it is legitimate to initiate an administrative investigation, so that this does not happen again. All responsibilities must be established. I had therefore instructed the General Finance Inspectorate to shed light on everyone's role and responsibility in this matter. The findings of this investigation were given to me this morning by Marie-Christine Lepetit, Head of the Department of the General Inspectorate of Finance. This report is of course at your disposal. It establishes a strict chronology to understand the process that led to the adoption of this tax in 2012, the reasons for its continuation for five years and the reasons for its cancellation by the Constitutional Council on October 6. It highlights administrative and institutional weaknesses in the identification of litigation risks. It seems to me important to draw all the lessons from these weaknesses without delay, in order to avoid the recurrence of such a situation. We want to secure our taxation and protect the French taxpayer. To that end, it seems to me important that we set ourselves together, Government and Parliament, three main objectives. The first is an objective to strengthen the security of the procedure for drawing up the tax law. Like the vast majority of our European partners, we could take the time to ensure the legal robustness of the voted arrangements. To this end, all stakeholders could be more involved in the drafting of the tax law – businesses, taxpayers, the Council of State and the European Commission. This development has been initiated for the 2018 Finance Bill and the Social Security Financing Bill. Unless urgent, a consultation on the main tax provisions of the Finance Act would make it possible to better identify any weaknesses. The second direction I propose to you is more transparency on the risk of litigation – we have talked about it throughout our debates and it seems to me that it is a lesson that we can learn from it together. The alerts of the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the most significant tax provisions cannot remain a dead letter and must be the subject of information from Parliament's Finance Committees. Finally, I propose that the administrative mechanism for monitoring tax disputes be re-established and that an effective alert procedure be introduced to enable us, in the event of disputes and major risks to our public finances, to be alerted and to draw the consequences. Given the major issues at stake here and the role played by Parliament in the drafting and voting of the tax law, it seems to me essential that the two chambers, and in the first place their Finance Committees, be closely involved in this work and the three objectives that I am presenting to you today, in their practical implementation and in the definition of the concrete consequences that we are drawing from them. I am therefore, ladies and gentlemen, listening to your proposals to ensure the security and stability of our tax law. We must guarantee our compatriots the security of the tax law, so that such an event does not happen again, and its stability, in order to protect the taxpayer. I would also like to stress that this surtax is not intended, at the level of each company, to correlate with the amount of reimbursement that may be collected under the dividend tax dispute, because it would be tantamount to circumventing a decision of the Constitutional Council which has the force of res judicata. We will repay the loans of 5000 companies concerned and ask 320 companies – which I would remind you have a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion – to help us maintain our fiscal trajectory in 2017. I am told that this surtax is unfair, because many of the companies concerned would not benefit from an equivalent dividend tax refund or even have none. On the contrary, it is the correlation of the two that would be illegitimate and...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u4	Illegal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u5	...illegal. I didn't hide anything from you. I told you, in this House, with the concern for transparency that has animated me since the beginning of this affair, that there would be winners and losers. We know that, but I would rather tell you today in full transparency than take the slightest risk of a new illegality. We have already paid too much for the legal and European risks on this subject. Once again, I prefer transparency: in the National Assembly, at first reading, I gave an opinion in favour of an amendment by Gilles Carrez, co-signed by all the members of the group. The Republicans, providing for the submission, on 1 December, of a report taking stock of the losing companies and the winning companies of the removal of the 3% dividend tax and the introduction of this exceptional corporate tax contribution. This report will provide a breakdown of the profits and losses by decile of the undertakings concerned, with due regard for tax secrecy. This amendment has been adopted, which I welcome, and the Government will present its report in due time on these losing companies and winning companies, as the national representative wanted – if I remember correctly, the amendment by Gilles Carrez was adopted unanimously by the Assembly. These are the last things I wanted to bring to your knowledge. The one-time surtax we propose is a measure dictated by exceptional circumstances. It does not in any way call into question the fiscal policy set out in the 2018 Finance Bill: a policy to better finance businesses, promote their development, growth and job creation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] This exceptional contribution also allows us to fulfil our European commitments and to aim for an exit from the excessive government deficit procedure from 2018: it is an imperative for our voice in Europe. This is the interest of France and all its companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u6	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u7	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to the circumstances which led us to be seized of this draft amending finance law, designed to guarantee the trajectory of the public balance and the fulfilment of France's European commitments in the face of a budgetary need of EUR 10 billion. We are here today, a week exactly after the first reading, because the Joint Joint Committee convened last Friday, November 10, following the amendments made to the text last Thursday by the Senate, at first reading, failed. While the Senate passed the amending finance bill, it rejected section 1, which is the essence of section 1, since it provides for the creation of the two exceptional corporate tax contributions, allowing the necessary revenue to be collected as early as 2017. The Senate has therefore amended Article 3 by setting the 2017 budget deficit at 81.7 billion euros, which is 4.73 billion more than expected in the text adopted by us at first reading. The members of the Joint Joint Committee quickly became evident: the differences of position between the National Assembly and the Senate were irreconcilable. A consensus to re-establish Article 1 in its drafting adopted by the National Assembly was beyond reach. Even assuming that an agreement could, by miracle, be reached, a subsequent adoption of the text by the Senate seemed to be excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised if I invite you to adopt the text in the text voted by our House last Monday and, in order to do so, to adopt two amendments. The first re-establishes Article 1. Of course, it incorporates the amendments we adopted last week: eight editorial amendments, one coordination amendment and five substantive amendments. Let me remind you of the purpose of these five substantive amendments. First, we adopted an amendment that I had tabled providing for a smoothing mechanism, in order to mitigate the threshold effects of each contribution. This equity measure is intended not to increase the burden on companies whose turnover is only slightly higher than the thresholds for new contributions. Secondly, we have adopted an amendment by the committee extending the deadline for payment of advance contributions to all companies that will have to pay their final corporate tax advance on 15 December 2017. The purpose of this measure is to treat companies in the same situation in the same way with regard to the timing of the payment of corporate tax, on which the payment of contributions is based. Thirdly, at the initiative of the Government, we have lowered the threshold for triggering penalties in the event of a clear underestimation of contributions due. Fourthly, at the initiative of the Government, we expressly excluded contributions from deductible corporate tax charges – the Government's amendment took over the operative part of one of my amendments adopted by the Commission. Finally, on the initiative of Gilles Carrez, we adopted a request for a report to compare the amounts paid for the proposed new contributions with the amounts reimbursed for the invalidation of the contribution of 3 per cent on the amounts distributed. I will also propose that you adopt a second amendment to Article 3, which will affect the budgetary balance for 2017 of the re-establishment of Article 1. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will invite you to vote in favour of the amended text. The calendar has been a little tight but rarely the formula has worked better, both clean and figurative: "necessity is law"! I would like to return for a moment to your comments, Minister, on the drafting of the tax law. It would be good if we could have the clauses in the finance bill and the finance bill a little earlier, so that we can all work not hard, but better on all of these pieces of legislation: it is a necessity for our assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I would like to present you with my remaining six minutes of speaking time, which need not be, except to overburden this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u8	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u9	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I myself will be quite brief. We are meeting again to discuss this text. On the form, we have challenged the need to convene the Assembly as a matter of urgency on an amending finance bill, knowing that the end-of-year collective is coming in a few days: we could have placed this text in the collective, without any special or negative consequences on the 2017 balance. I said that I saw a desire for communication: if this is not necessarily negative – one may want to communicate to learn from the mistakes made in the past – there is a fiscal theatricalization on the part of the Government on this text. I heard what the minister said about the report of the IGF – General Inspectorate of Finance. We have not read this report, but we are first of all sensitive to the idea that Parliament should get it immediately: it is a good way of doing things. In addition, Bercy's services, led by the minister, will be able to draw all the lessons from it, both on tax decision-making on such complex matters as the inability to amend or remedy the consequences of errors, as long as it is beginning to be realized that this is a mistake. So we will have to go through these lessons to consolidate our institutions in the face of such uncertainties – I would remind you that 10 billion euros are at stake! However, isn't the repayment schedule a little surprising? Yes! In the Public Finance Programming Bill, you had planned to repay $5 billion in four years. Now, to repay $10 billion, you're planning two years. One can regret that this is not 20 billion: it would have taken only one year to repay! In short, I am surprised that the solution is easier to find when the amount to be reimbursed is twice the original amount. I see three weak points – even if, being in the opposition, I could see a little more. First weak point: as soon as you singled out a collective budget on this subject, you should have told us how you will repay the 5 billion of 2018. It was necessary to make a package, explain to Parliament how companies would pay the 5 billion in 2017 and how you would integrate the 5 billion in 2018 into the finance bill, beyond the only deterioration in the balance and the use of borrowing for those 5 billion you didn't expect. You will reply that this can be dealt with in the year-end collective: of course, but since you are presenting a specific text, it was necessary to propose a comprehensive solution on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u11	You probably rely on growth, which falls so well. We all know that it is easier to reform with 1.8 growth than with zero or even in times of recession. But what additional revenues do you expect in 2018, and how will they be used? We really have the feeling that you're calling on the taxpayer because you don't want to waste your room for manoeuvre from growth to solve problems of this nature – certainly it's unpleasant, but they exist! You refuse to admit that it is not up to the taxpayer to pay and that growth allows you to deal in part with these problems, even if it forces you to do less on other issues. But nothing is certain because these two subjects are untied, a little as the PLFSS and the PLF are sometimes: they must be seen as a whole. In short, you don't say anything about the $5 billion, nothing about what you really want to do in 2018. Second weak point: the blow to the attractiveness of our country. You want to pursue, like all previous governments, a policy that makes us economically attractive. Attractiveness hates instability and uncertainty, and you create instability and uncertainty. You want to remove part of the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – to bring back the taxpayers who left France. Good: it's a good goal, which we share. But the message that you send by a very considerable and brutal increase in corporate tax is the opposite: the taxpayer who left France because of the ISF may fear that, in the next crisis, one may, we know, create a new property tax or significantly increase the income tax of certain taxpayers... Instability is the enemy of attractiveness! Third weak point: there are losers and winners. You have accepted Gilles Carrez' extremely important request for a report on this subject. However, it is quite incongruous that companies should be reimbursed a little while paying a lot more taxes: this has a rather surreal side. Of course, I know that it is complicated, especially from the point of view of law, and it is probably extremely difficult to find a solution just for everyone. But to pay back a taxpayer who has unduly paid a tax, we create another tax, much more important! Just to remind him, in short, that he's only here to pay... All this gives a feeling of considerable injustice. This is regrettable from the beginning to the end, from the problem to the solution. We can only regret it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, and I imagine that you will be sensitive to it because you want to simplify and combat abuses and excesses – I understand and agree – I will point out to you that the state always has the right to error, by catching up with taxpayers who are not responsible for it, but that the taxpayer, businesses, are not entitled to any error with regard to tax services. In general, attempts must be made to determine more honest rules vis-à-vis taxpayers and businesses when the state is wrong. That is what I wanted to say at the beginning of this new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u12	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u13	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen – not many in the Chamber for this important text, it is a pity – we are again considering, a week after the first reading, this draft amending finance law for 2018 concerning the exceptional corporate tax surtax for large companies. For me, this return remains a scandal both from the point of view of inequalities and injustices at stake and of national sovereignty. I will quickly come back to the real causes requiring us to legislate urgently on this compensation, namely a European directive adopted to guarantee free tax competition between major groups and intra-European tax dumping between states. Of course, we disagree with this text, as with the Senate text. The scandal remains complete and I do not have the impression, but perhaps we will have surprises on this side, that the IGF has lifted the veil on responsibilities – I am thinking in particular of Mr Macron, whose responsibilities were known to us at the Elysée when this tax was voted and who did nothing when he was Minister of the Economy. It is the political responsibility of the Government, as well as all those in charge of these financial matters. Of course, we are opposed to the state, that is to say, all of us, taking over the repayment of half of the proceeds of this tax, with delusional moratoriums: 4.8% is 0.4% per month, or the annual interest rate on our debt! That is what the text of the National Assembly provides for. Nor, of course, are we in favour of the Senate text, which has removed this exceptional corporate tax surtax, leaving the $10 billion to be repaid entirely by the state. This PLFR is a condensation of all that is more indecent and more dangerous on the democratic level. First, it is a bill drafted in haste following a complaint filed against the ministry by the French Association of Private Enterprises (AFEP), one of the largest employers' lobbys. Seventeen of the largest companies in financial capitalism in France are demanding $10 billion from the state: Axa, Michelin, Danone, Engie, Eutelsat Communications, LVMH – remember that Mr.Arnault's name was recently cited in the Paradise paper business –, Orange, Sanofi, Suez Environnement Company, Technip, Total, Vivendi, Eurazeo, Safran, Scor, Unibail-Rodamco, Zodiac Aerospace. These seventeen groups have chosen the interest of their shareholders rather than the general interest, since the repayment of these 10 billion will largely weigh on the nation if we adopt this PLFR. After all, they might not have filed a complaint. They could have – one can dream – once the tax was cancelled not to ask for its refund, or to negotiate the terms of it with the state, they constantly asking for money on the pretext that they will create jobs in return. These 10 billion could have been used for the benefit of SMEs, investment... Didn't they receive billions from all of us, from the nation, from the CICE between 2013 and 2016? As we prepare to give them new gifts it is good to recall the figures: Axa has received 60 million euros, Safran 150 million, Orange 380 million, Total 110 million, Sanofi 50 million. In 2016, CAC 40 companies distributed €55.7 billion in dividends and share buybacks. Only the companies I mentioned paid more than 50% of these dividends. Let's not worry about them! Especially since they will receive a good share of at least 9 billion as the Government is about to subtract from the revenues of the State to give them to the richest of our shareholders through the suppression of the ISF or flat tax. It is a bill that has been drafted in general panic; Once the Constitutional Council's decision had been known, the Government had not even taken a few weeks to consider other solutions that could put an end to this psychodrama. I have just heard Mr. Woerth welcome Parliament's final ruling, but the least we can say is that this bill was introduced in haste to parliamentarians, in the midst of discussion of the original finance bill, without any serious debate in committee. You have left parliamentarians only a dozen hours to amend this text at first reading and make proposals: it is neither acceptable nor respectful of democracy, and all the less so when so much public money, which could serve the general interest, is at stake. The speed with which this reparation is proposed is worrying: these 10 billion are almost as quickly returned as they were requested! This eagerness to "repay" money to shareholders who would have deserved to pay such a tax bothers us. The parliamentary debate is stifled. On Friday, we had only 30 minutes to table amendments! The meeting of the Finance Committee lasted less than five minutes since no one, except the rapporteur general, had had time to amend the Senate text. A real caricature! I admit that as a new Member of Parliament, I had another idea of our right to amend a bill that will cost the nation 10 billion euros! We are therefore meeting today for a session whose sole purpose is to restore the original text of the Government – I am not doubting for a moment what the majority vote will be – without taking the time to really think about how to repay those 10 billions. There are, however, many examples where reparation does not take place so quickly. For example, for the CICE, 100 billion has been given unconditionally to businesses, apart from the MEDEF's promise to create 1 million jobs. We are only 100 000 jobs, at best... One could have imagined that the Government would look at this proof of the insinuity of the budgets since the creation of the CICE, since this money given to the companies did not have as a counterpart the productive investment that was promised to us. And how many local and regional authorities claim in vain the sums corresponding to transfers of powers not financed by the State? There, too, these repayments do not occur with the same speed. I was just in Bercy with the employees who were dismissed from the GE Hydro site in Grenoble, who were surprised at the abolition of 345 jobs while the agreements with GE provided for the creation of 1000 jobs. Here too, a promise from the state has not been implemented, and there too one can wonder why the state takes so long to stand by the employees! Your unrepair also leads you to create inequalities in reimbursement. You are asking companies that are not going to benefit from this $10 billion rebate, since they had not paid or paid little dividends, to pay this exceptional contribution. This is the case for many mutual societies, for example. We can fear that this de facto inequality in the face of taxation will render the text that we are going to vote today unconstitutional. If it is considered legitimate, because the directive is fair and the dividends should not be taxed, then we understand the willingness of the Government to distribute cheques and the overbidding of the Republicans. Indeed, we are witnessing a race to the stallion between the on-road majority and the Republicans, to know which one will be the most liberal of the two. But those who, like us, believe that dividends must contribute to the national effort because polluters must pay, in this case the world of finance which not only inspires such directives but also has the power to claim EUR 10 billion at the very moment when it is filled with gifts, these can only see the harmfulness of the text that will be voted on today. You have referred to the need for a flattening, Mr Le Maire, but the first flattening should aim to restore the freedom of our country to impose capital rather than to suffer this kind of constitutional constraint once again. Is not the European directive we are talking about finally what the directive on seconded work is about to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u14	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u15	The latter makes it possible to subject a foreign worker in France to the social regime of his country of origin – and the renegotiation proposed by Mr Macron will not change anything. Similarly, the directive at issue today allows French subsidiaries of a foreign company not to pay the ordinary tax. Such a tax dumping premium is still aberrant. I would therefore like to know whether France intends to question this directive as it claims to limit the disadvantages of the directive on secondment. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You explained to us, Mr. Le Maire, that practices such as those revealed by Paradise Papers were in violation of democracy. On this point I agree with you, but it seems that you have not found a better way to fight fraud, or against tax optimisation – let's call it legal fraud! – to reduce their taxes. Don't bother cheating, there's no reason, we'll put the taxes as low as possible! It's kind of like giving the key to the safe to bank robbers! So I, too, believe that there are things to be done, Mr. Le Maire, but I doubt that we have the same conception. I believe that these incessant gifts to capital and this urgent repayment of $10 billion violate the principle of equality in the face of taxation, which I recall is the basis of Republican consent to taxation, and which once again benefits the income of capital to the detriment of those of labour. But since you're talking about flattening, I'll take your word. Do you want to go through a litigious set-up? Then blow Bercy's lock!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u16	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u17	Because this special jurisdiction of Bercy is really problematic in a rule of law and in a democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] A second setback – but again, I do not have the impression that the Government is taking this path – would be to lay down as a prerequisite for any new stage of European construction a social and fiscal harmonisation. For what we are paying here is the price of widespread dumping that cannot continue. We cannot continue to tax businesses and capital less and less, knowing that there will always be another state to offer even lower rates! This is total injustice! Because we believe that these gifts to capital will not create more jobs than they have created in the last 30 years than this mechanism is in place, we propose that the companies concerned pay in full the 10 billion they ask for reimbursement, in consideration of all the gifts you have already given them. We could also, like the Republicans, offer them to do it over two years – 5 billion a year. We could still give them $5 billion as you expect, but by cancelling the gifts you give them through the finance bill – PLF – for 2018, i.e. the removal of the ISF for personal income and flat tax – a saving of $5 billion: so the cost would be zero! Mr. Mayor, you said there would be losers and winners. I believe that there is only one winner in your policy: the financial oligarchy, to whom you are eager to repay $5 billion after giving him 9 billion extra gifts – and I don't even count the CICE. The losers are all the rest of society, all the producers, all those who tow an increasingly heavy rope, that of the financial rent which captures an ever increasing share of the wealth of this country; all these managers of SMEs, employees, artisans, farmers who can no longer bear the weight of the privileges of financial rent, which you increase once again today. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the committee chairmen, Mr.Minister, we are calling for the prior rejection of this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u18	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u19	Of these 10 billion euros, 5 billion will weigh on our fellow citizens, as we are examining a deeply unjust finance bill, a budget of the rich: reduction of the APL versus abolition of the ISF, increase of the CSG versus abandonment of the tax on financial transactions... [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Of course, the government is not responsible for the situation, but it is responsible for the way in which it fears it: it has decided, in keeping with the spirit of the PLF for 2018, to have these 5 billion paid back to our fellow citizens, those who are not responsible for the crisis or the introduction of this tax, while being much more correct with the multinationals, which, I recall, have distributed this year another 300 billion dividends. Our group will therefore vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u20	Mrs Dominique David, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u21	Strictness, transparency and balance: These values led to the development of this PLFR. Yet the Senate is referring him to us today. The situation we have to face is exceptional: an unexpected debt of EUR 9 billion, subject to moratoria which are a long-term threat to the deficit reduction targets set out in the fiscal trajectory we voted for a few weeks ago. Yes, it is an urgent response, because this situation requires us to react quickly, within a time frame unfortunately forced, in order not to jeopardize a precarious balance. As we all know, our room for manoeuvre is limited. Life is like a bicycle: one must move forward in order not to lose balance. Like Albert Einstein, we know that we must not compromise our chances by marking the stop too long, not delaying what we can do today until tomorrow. We need to balance the past to take advantage of the wind – the breeze I should say – that the global situation is blowing in our sails. So it is once again that we return to our balance: the project we are defending today is a surtax that will be called only in 2017. It is not a new tax that would add to the complexity of our tax environment. It is a well-known tax vehicle, already implemented in the past, which protects us from any breach of the Constitution and European legislation, a simple mechanism that calls for the solidarity of 320 companies – those that generate turnover of more than EUR 1 billion. Most of these companies, which aspire to a return to the balance of our public finances, are sufficiently responsible not to be insurgent against the call made to them. To take the image of the bicycle, they pedal in the same way as we do because we have released the brakes a little in recent weeks, and they know it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] Of course, some will find it necessary to maintain this surtax, others will find it unfair, others will think it takes time. But the time of what? To accumulate interest and to increase our deficits, our initiatives, our minds? Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, without delay we shall vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u22	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u23	We understood that the majority presented the measure to us as an exceptional measure. But precisely, what guarantees do we have with regard to the remedies already filed and which suggest new disputes? We must work without delay to analyse the causes that led to this situation. You referred, Minister, to the report that was delivered to you this morning. You have proposed leads, and I thank you for them, but we cannot consider them sufficient. It needs to be debated and implemented. We're talking about billions of euros, and we'd like to pass this on like a letter to the post office? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] On the other hand, I have little taste of the method of having Parliament ratify the decree of 20 July 2017 opening and cancelling appropriations in advance. It endorses absolutely iniquitous measures, especially for territories experiencing difficult situations – as many attacks on purchasing power as you confirm in the 2018 budget. For all these reasons, we will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u24	Mrs Clémentine Autain, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u25	We shall vote on this motion of rejection for a simple reason: we are standing up against this budget, a budget in the service of the richest. You have aligned yourself with this doxa, this implacable logic promoted in particular on a European scale, with the golden rule. But I see that you are able to do a few sprains when it comes to giving money to the multinationals, to the richest. When a department like the Seine-Saint-Denis is simply unable to honour the rights to the RSA, we are told: debt, budgetary restrictions! We are deeply opposed to your logic, because it falls on the poorest. With you, Robin Hood constantly takes in the pocket of most of the population to give to the richest. That's your logic, that's what you're implementing. Immediately, we will oppose it. You are reforming the ISF, a gift to the richest; you continue the pact of responsibility, money given to large companies, without compensation in terms of jobs; you are introducing flat tax and other measures that are favourable to those who have the most. On the other hand, you take in the pockets of pensioners, with the rise of the CSG, in the pocket of young people, with the decrease of the APLs, in the pocket of the local authorities that can no longer do it – the most difficult are now strangled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u26	And in the pocket of CAC 40!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You know it well, don't you, the CAC 40 pocket!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u28	Not personally, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In this House, we had a very exciting exchange with Mr Darmanin. While we were proposing to lower VAT on basic necessities, the minister told us that we had failed to be cautious in omitting caviar. No, we don't think about caviar! We believe that we must introduce new taxes for the richest, end VAT, create fourteen tax brackets and finally tackle the rent, the capital and the financial world that falls on the head!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u30	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u31	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I ask that this bill be referred back to committee. Indeed, I believe that the two frameworks that organize the thinking of this budget are wrong. Many believe that the budget is a particular creation, resulting from the imagination of the government in place. No, Minister, you follow without originality, let me tell you, the road map which the European Commission issues every year at the end of the famous European Semester. Moreover, in the recent past, this is what all French governments, whatever they may be, have done – more or less well. Thus, the reform of the country's administrative framework, which did not meet any kind of necessity, was made by Mr Hollande only because Europe had requested it. As his first copy was not yet complete, he himself reformed his own reform, which had not entered into force: it was the organization of the regions. Since then, the Commission has consistently called for reform of the Labour Code. In every European semester, it asks us to fluidise, to flexibilise, and what do I still know about labour relations. That's what you started with. I give only these two examples because I must turn to the fundamental criticism that I want to address to this thought inspired by the Commission and its ideological prejudices. Let's start with the absurdity of the 3% rule. If this is the right figure, it applies, whatever the situation, whatever the context. It has therefore become impossible to take counter-cyclical measures, while France, because of its organization, has for decades been characterized by its counter-cyclical economy! Of course, you can always get serious with that 3%. But it's a joke! When the deficit limit was set, the Germans proposed 5%. It was the French who proposed 3%. It's a finance inspector, Guy Abeille, who is the author of the 3%, a man in his office who found that 5%, it was way too much, 1%, it was ridiculous, and that 3%, in the middle, it was serious... It's serious, but it's not! Just look at the record of the country to which this horse remedy was applied against any common sense: Greece. When the crisis began in 2010, debt accounted for 146 per cent of GDP. Six years later, after GDP fell by a quarter, like wages, and retirement pensions fell by 20%, after the unemployment rate rose to 22.5 % and 400,000 people emigrated because they could no longer live in their country, Greece's debt represents... 186 % of GDP! Nothing's been settled. So what do you expect from horse remedies that don't cure anything and tend to kill the beast? If we want to look more closely, we will be surprised to learn that Greece releases 3.9% of the primary surplus each year. In France, we are far from it! But this means that it will take the Greeks another fifty years to lock their debt in its present state. Fifty years! What the Commission is doing is telling the young Greeks that their country's only political objective for the next 50 years will be to repay the debt! And all this on the basis of calculations of which I question nature, and even existence. Finally, why should one compare the level of debt to the production of wealth for a year, minister? What does that mean? What objective relationship does this describe? Who of us has his debt assessed against his annual income?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u32	Me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u33	Come on, sir, not for private debts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u34	Look at my banker, he'll explain it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u35	[[Smile]] Take it easy, please, and don't interrupt me. Or wait till I give you permission! If you bring France's debt back to the average duration of a debt obligation concluded by the State – 7 years and 31 days – France's total debt is, in relation to the GDP of the years considered, 12%: nothing justifies the sacrifices and destruction to which we are called! In short, the intellectual and conceptual framework of the economy as the Commission thinks it is absurd, which will not be able to cope with the events that are about to take place. Second frame of your budget, the runoff theory: you pile money up, and the big crumbs end up falling down on those below. That's an idea you objected to, minister, I remember it very well. Yet you have explained that the 10 billion you are going to give will result in investments, which will produce jobs themselves, which will earn taxes and taxes – creating the better world to which you aspire, but which you will not see happen with such methods. There is one point in this theory: there is no evidence anywhere that the extra money that is given to capital goes to work and investment. There is no evidence of this. It sounds like you're having fun, Minister. I'm sure you have a good reason, but for my part, I take this very seriously. After all, you might be right... But the fact is that no one criticizes this point of economic doctrine. You told me earlier that common sense wants money to go to production. But nowhere can we see that common sense! While the measures contained in the finance bill for 2018 are almost acquired, L'Opinion newspaper reported last week that investors had decided to slow down their investments in France for 2017 and that they had no plans for 2018. They believe that production tools are already being used to the maximum of their capacity. This means that they do not expect anything from the decision just taken to return them EUR 10 billion. This theory starts from the idea that the market, at the bottom, naturally places resources in the right place, at the right time. This is the old capitalism, the Rhine capitalism, the one we've known in the last decades of the last century. But he doesn't exist anymore. Capitalism of our time is first and foremost a disproportionate accumulation in the financial bubble, unrelated to actual production. This phenomenon developed dramatically from the 1970s, and precisely from Mr. Richard Nixon's decision on August 15, 1971, to suspend the convertibility of the dollar into gold. The United States of America then began printing banknotes without any limits, and its currency to regulate world trade. Between that time and 2016, financial trade increased from $20 billion to $5,000 billion a day, or 115 times, each day, the annual amount of world trade. If this does not demonstrate the existence of a financial sphere absolutely cut off from the reality of the productive economy, what will ever prove it! The resulting stock market bubble, i.e. an accumulation of wealth without cause, is also considerable. We went from 1400 billion in 1975, a few years after Nixon's decision, to 65000 billion in 2017. Hear this figure: it is higher than the peak reached by market capitalization on the eve of the 2008 crisis! This crisis, caused by the bursting of the financial bubble, has been the most serious since 1929 according to the statements of our politicians, President Sarkozy and the then President of the United States, but today we are at a higher level! It is enough to open an economic or financial journal to see that we are in an over-critical state. And this is the time we have chosen to go, with our small buckets, to further enlarge the ocean of this fictitious money! While the stock market value has been multiplied by 45 in 30 years, real output has only been multiplied by 3.5. Let's be clear: an ocean of paper floats above our heads. A huge bubble encompasses the real economy. It is it, and not real production, that sets the pace. The danger is therefore extreme, and it should not be increased. Now, as I told you a moment ago, investors are not preparing to invest the money we're going to give them. Moreover, in recent years they have not invested more, on the contrary. And that's understandable! It's not a conspiracy, it's just that it's easier to accumulate in the financial bubble than in the real economy. Formerly – in the year 2000, it's not that old! – CAC 40 companies distributed 33% of their profits to shareholders. Today, they distribute 57%. This means that they rely on people to place their money in a timely manner. We know, from Paradise Papers and, before that, Panama Papers, what these people do with their money. If those who should invest don't invest, if the rich prefer dividends, if the stock market bubble threatens us, then we need to see if there are economic theories or practices that lead to a reverse result. That's what we're interested in. I will look for proof of my demonstration at the European Central Bank – ECB – even if it may seem curious at first glance. The ECB began by announcing that it would give 400 billion to the banks, on condition that they give, in exchange, real estate loan securities. What's the result? Nothing. It was barely 60 billion that was consumed. Banks preferred to take nothing but to let go of what they considered to be a safer investment than money to invest in the real economy – because that is the second condition that the Central Bank imposed. Mr Jean-Claude Juncker proposed 300 billion recovery plans. What happened? Nothing. This amount was not used either. The central banker had to adhere, with a bit of humor, to Mr. Keynes' most crazy theory, which said that everything was good to restart the machine, including throwing bags of tickets from helicopters, because it forced people to immediately spend the money, so that they would not be taken back. What I'm telling you is not an invention: that's what he said at a press conference, with humour, in response to a journalist asking him what was the limit of what he was willing to do to revive the economy. He replied that there were none, and made this assumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u36	It was a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u37	One day, it was understood that when conditions were laid down, banks did not place their money in the real economy. What have we done? We told them we'd give them all the money they wanted, for nothing. We gave them 80 billion a month. After only four or five months, when the economy had entered a depression in the euro area, which is the total disaster, the money began to flow and European production was seen rising upwards, so that we now consider that there is a "better". The best is a 2% growth. More than 2000 billion euros had to be injected into the European economy free of charge, which corresponds to a year of total production in France, so that as soon as the machine was revived! This is proof that it is enough to inject money into the real economy for the machine to restart and for taxes and taxes to return budgets to square. Yes, this question arises with absolute urgency. Public debt is always mentioned, and everyone forgets private debt. In France, however, this is higher than the public debt. The French not only owe 2200 billion public debt; They owe a little more than the same amount in private debt, which makes a total of 4,500 billion. The only way to treat private debt, especially when you have a financial bubble, is to revive the real economy, because it is it that will allow, at least to those who have borrowed, not to be failing – because that is where the bubbles burst. This is the first point I wanted to make, which is nowhere in the economic assumptions that have been used to build this budget. Of course, the issue of debt is a matter for the whole of Europe, and I therefore propose a measure which I believe is indispensable. If we do nothing, if we continue with the absurd golden rule, which takes no account of the effects of the economic cycles, if we do not end all this, what will happen? Tensions between nations will increase, because everywhere the state and public services are receding, which deprives of its very meaning the existence of the nation, which cannot be anything other than a community of solidarity. The debt issue needs to be addressed, because it is on his behalf that these policies of clear cuts on public services are carried out. It is because of it that the absurd demonstrations of these 60,000 right-wing thugs in Poland take place...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u39	... or the emergence of national identity crises such as the one currently taking place in Spain. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We must stop this machine to lose and kill, by organising a debt conference at European level. I ask that I be denied if what I am saying does not hold or if my addition is not fair: if all the public debts of the European States were purchased directly by the European Central Bank instead of being bought on the second market, as it has been until recently – which has led to this ridiculous situation where Greece has provided 8 billion to the European Central Bank – in the worst case we would have 5 to 6 % inflation. Well, I'm telling you, I prefer 5 or 6 % inflation and a Europe that lives in peace and prosperity, rather than the war that is taking place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u40	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We will, of course, vote on this motion to refer it back to committee for the same reasons that led us to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. There is a kind of rush, almost panic, to want to pay off the multinationals so quickly. Many proposals have been made to bring about this tax fiasco while respecting social justice. This is another way you take, faithful that you are on your budget for the rich. We will therefore vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u43	Mrs Stella Dupont, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u44	I hope I convinced you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u45	Section 6 of the Financial Amendment Act for 2012 introduced an additional contribution to corporate tax, paid by businesses and calculated on the amount of income distributed. This draft law on amending finance is very specific, as it seeks to draw the consequences of the Constitutional Council's censorship of this additional 3% contribution on dividends. The text before us is intended to act as quickly as possible so that this censorship will cost the State budget as little as possible, hence a certain urgency to adopt it. I note that we will re-examine the issue of moratorium interests when considering the next amending finance law, since their level does raise questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we wish to break with a 40-year-old habit of spending what we do not have. It is therefore necessary to respect the budgetary path and to recover more rigorous management. This text is in line with this logic. No, Mr. Mélenchon, you didn't convince me. We do not share the same political project. For our part, we believe that our country's activity, development and wealth come from businesses, public services and associations, which must be supported. The obstacles to economic development are real, in particular the undercapitalisation of enterprises. We have a project that aims both to restore purchasing power to those who have the least – people with disabilities, those with small incomes or small pensions – but also to support the business world and businesses. To return to the text before us today, I would like to welcome the transparency with which you have dealt with this issue, Minister. We will carefully analyse the report that you will submit to us on the application of this text and its impact on the companies concerned, both in terms of the surtax paid and the refund received.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u46	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u47	Therefore, in view of these elements, we are opposed to the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u48	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u49	We will vote on this motion for referral back to committee, and I thank our colleagues in La France for their tenacity. We did not have enough information, but we also lacked time to discuss this text. At the first reading, only three days elapsed between the examination of the text in the Finance Committee and the public sitting. The deadlines were even shorter at second reading. We could still have imagined, reasonably, that the Government would take advantage of this shuttle to provide us with the figures we were asking for. We have, of course, obtained a few figures, but in a way that is too partial. We cannot accept that the Government is giving such little attention to requests for information from Parliament, and we are still awaiting the report of the General Inspectorate of Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u50	He's here, we've got him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u51	You have mentioned, Mr. Minister, an improvement in the functioning of our Assembly, an overhaul of procedures and greater transparency, to the benefit of the security of our taxation system and, beyond that, of our citizens. But this is not enough, and we are missing a good opportunity to correct the serious mistakes that were made during the summer, and aggravated during the fall. Your budget, in the end, was built on two prerequisites: the introduction of the flat tax and the abolition of the ISF on personal income, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in return – or "at the same time", as you usually say – for keeping our deficit below levels deemed excessive at European level. Obviously, this equation is difficult to solve and you had to compensate. You have done so in two ways, first by creating new taxes – the CSG for small pensions and an increase in ecological taxation, which particularly affects the rural world – and by making savings, which affect the territories in difficulty more – lower LPAs and eliminate many assisted jobs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We wish to return to committee to correct these great human and territorial injustices. We will therefore vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u52	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u53	The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote on this motion to refer the matter back to committee. As President Mélenchon and Éric Coquerel have shown, we are opposed to this amending finance bill, both in form and substance. As far as the form is concerned, we believe that Parliament has not had the means to properly examine the text, given the time constraints. In substance, above all, we believe that this is not just an accounting and budgetary debate, but a debate on the meaning of expenditure and the meaning that we want to give to the economic trajectory. What's a budget for? What is the purpose of the expenses? Not to satisfy the European 3% rule, to satisfy markets or the economy, but above all to serve the general interest. For us, this budget should serve the ecological transition, a major challenge for humanity as a whole. It should serve to revive and develop public services, which are the common heritage of all citizens. It should be used to share wealth, which is produced primarily by employees, in enterprises. The opposite is proposed by the Government and the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This is the general meaning of what we insist on and will continue to insist on, without any disruption. We hope to convince you of the need for a political debate on the general interest, on the use of the economy and finance for the benefit of the general interest. We have developed an alternative project, a counter-budget. If we have convinced you to vote on this motion for referral back to committee, we hope that we can continue to discuss this counter-budget and convince you of its merits. That is why we will vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u54	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u56	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u57	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 10 billion in public money to be spent on behalf of the major groups, that is, in one sentence, what brings us together this Monday. As a matter of urgency, not to say panic, the legislator is required to adopt, in a record period of time, a draft budget that combines political-fiscal fiasco, areas of multiple shadow and characterized social injustice. To see public authorities have to pay EUR 10 billion when the Paradise paper case has just illustrated, if necessary, the tax practices of these large French groups is not croquignolesque but indecent. We are talking about these multinationals, sometimes little driven by the patriotic fiber you are calling on, Minister. In view of the budgetary guidelines that you have chosen, it is equally distressing to make a contribution of EUR 5 billion to our citizens in 2018. It should be noted that the additional contribution of 3% on dividends had a dual purpose. On the one hand, it made it possible to find funds to finance a previous tax dispute: it was worth 2 billion euros a year. On the other hand, it responded to an economic and social logic that we shared: faced with the illegitimate explosion of dividends, it seemed essential to adapt our tax system by setting up a mechanism favouring self-financing over the ever-increasing increase in shareholders' income. Of course, this contribution of 3% on dividends was not the panacea, it was far from making the revolution, but it had at least the merit of going in the right direction. Undoubtedly, our country today suffers from an ever greater capture of the wealth created by the company for the benefit of the holders of capital and to the detriment of employment, investment and sustainable development in our territories – which we are in principle responsible for defending here! Unemployment, precariousness and poverty affect an ever larger number of our citizens, while nearly EUR 300 billion of dividends have been distributed by businesses over the past five years. It's dizzying! When companies distributed 30% of the wealth they created in the 1980s in dividends, they now distribute 60% – and the masses are no longer the same! This capture is detrimental to our economy: it contributes to chronic underinvestment in the productive apparatus and feeds the financialization of the entire economic fabric. By increasing inequality and feeling – and not just feeling – of injustice, this capture is also harmful to the social pact, and particularly toxic to our lives! A simple contribution of 3% on dividends was already too much for the major groups of the CAC 40: they quickly multiplied the legal remedies to bring it down, which they obtained last May before the Court of Justice of the European Union, arguing that this tax was incompatible with the mother-daughter scheme. I would like to point out that, in view of the effects of this mother-daughter directive, it is now essential to have public information on the transnational activities of major groups. We must also shed light on the turnover achieved, the location of profits, and intra-group financial flows. Country-by-country reporting is more relevant than ever in the fight against aggressive tax practices. Europe and France must move forward on this point. Finally, the major groups will recover their bet: 9 billion which they had, according to the law, unduly paid to the State when, at the same time, they distributed 300 billion euros of dividends. And to that 9 billion, we must add no less than 1 billion euros of interest – I will return to that. To settle these EUR 10 billion, which is an upbuilding figure for our public finances, you propose the following scheme: 5 billion financed by a temporary corporate tax surtax for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion; 5 billion funded by the deficit in 2018, as you told us. As much as we can share the first option, which we believe is relevant, it seems to us deeply unfair to make our fellow citizens contribute $5 billion to the repayment of this tax fiasco. All the budgets since 2008, including the initial finance bill we're currently looking at, make them pay for a crisis they're not responsible for, and we're adding a layer here! Minister, the review of this bill has not yet been completed. Why not sustain the contribution you offer, even at a lower rate, as early as 2018? This solution, which we proposed, would cover the cost of litigation, provide a concrete response to the possible tax optimisation practices of large groups and compensate for the loss, for the State budget, of the removal of this 3% dividend tax. You could also extend the scope of this tax by applying it to companies from 500 million euros in turnover. These are, I believe, large companies in a position to absorb the cost of the device. Another budgetary option was possible: the one-year carry-over of the abolition of the ISF and the implementation of the single flat-rate levy – PFU. Coincidence: The combined cost of these two schemes is 5 billion euros. You would have a good way to pay for this tax evasion in social justice. I now turn to the issue of the interests to be settled in connection with this dispute. No one is talking about a "state scandal", but let me judge that this is all about: EUR 1 billion in interest on a 9 billion dispute, ladies and gentlemen! One billion is a little more than the budget of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission. Spectacular! This is a great deal for the major groups, who have made an interesting financial investment there, to the detriment of our public finances and our ability to act and carry out policies of social transformation. You have indicated that you want to divide the legal moratorium interest rate by two in the near future, with a minimum proposal that we made in the Chamber last Monday. This is a positive first step for the future, but it does not solve the problem of the current litigation. In reality, given the cost of litigation and the financial health of large groups, a moratorium is needed, all the more so in view of the budgetary guidelines for 2018, which are deeply unfair: you have made the very clear choice of setting up a "budget of the rich", the very ones who will recover the settlement of this dispute. On the one hand, there is the abolition of the ISF, the introduction of the single flat-rate levy on capital income, the dislocation of the tax on financial transactions, the cumulation of the CICE and the permanent abolition of employer social contributions in 2019, the reduction of corporate tax, tax relief on free shares, the abolition of the 3% contribution on dividends and the repayment of the present dispute of 10 billion euros. The list is long, but it deserves to be set out. On the other hand, there is the abolition of aided contracts, the decrease in LPAs, the increased financial constraints for local authorities, the increase in the CSG, particularly for pensioners, official development assistance in the dark, hospitals under pressure and an increased deficit of 5 billion for 2018. This list is also long; It deserves to be stated, but not to be lived by our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the end, Minister, we have little illusions about a hypothetical change of brace on your part, especially with regard to the timing of national representation and the elements that you bring to the debate. So, just as at first reading, the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not vote for this bill on amending finance, which makes our fellow citizens the big losers of a tax fiasco in which they have not only not taken part but will experience in a particularly harsh way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u58	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u59	We are meeting again in this Chamber, and before the French, to discuss the draft law on amending finance after the Senate rejects its Article 1 and the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. Rest assured: I will not go back to the history or the decisions that led us to this situation, because it is no longer time to restate the past. Nor will I go back to the technical arrangements for responding to them, as they have already been sufficiently debated on these benches. Rather, today, it is a question of taking a step backwards in order to arrive at an overview of the issues we face, which go far beyond any question of tax theory. Last Thursday, 9 November, the European Commission published its economic forecasts for autumn 2017. The message was clear. On the one hand, it welcomed the reforms undertaken and our efforts. For the first time in a long time, it reported positive prospects for the French economy, with solid growth and declining unemployment. It therefore revised its forecast for the government deficit from 3 to 2.9%. On the other hand, it clearly explained that these forecasts did not take into account the necessary repayment of the dividend tax, which posed a "clear risk" on the correction of the deficit and its return below 3% of GDP. The choice of words in an official Commission document is anything but neutral, and we must not ignore them. So what does the Commission tell us? She tells us in essence: "You are about to leave, for the first time since 2009, the excessive deficit procedure, because the measures you are taking are in the right direction to put the French economy back on the path of growth, competitiveness and progress, but the repayment of this dividend tax risks calling this into question if you do not act. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: let us not stop in such a good way! Let's do it! Let's not be irresponsible! Our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, is also to read in detail the report that the Inspectorate-General for Finance has just presented today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u60	That's right! It's a very good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u61	He has the merit of proposing that we review in depth our budgetary work, from the first outline of the budget to his vote, to ensure that all of us, much more actively, upstream and collectively, are consistent with tax measures. Consistency with our Constitution, with the possibility to refer certain measures or amendments to the Constitutional Council in advance. Consistency with the European framework, with in-depth work on the consequences of European case law on our tax framework, in order to draw all the consequences, both at national and European level. Consistency with budgetary guidelines, with strengthened expenditure and revenue reporting obligations, as well as much more robust tools to achieve it. During our last discussions in committee and in this same forum last week, we have already outlined ways of working so that we, as parliamentarians, can take over our constitutional role in monitoring and evaluation. In the coming days, we Members of the La République Group will make specific proposals on the parliamentary and budgetary procedure. How can we better use our parliamentary time? How can external expertise be valued and mobilised in Parliament? How can we receive and analyse all the data, figures, followed by disputes and opinions expressed by the French and European courts, independently, with real means, as, for example, the British and American parliaments do? [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Because we are responsible, in the face of urgency, for our rights and duties as parliamentarians at the heart of an institutional system where, as we can see, there are many elements to evolve, modernise and make sincere, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to join your voices in re-establishing the version of the text which will enable us to act quickly and to draw all the consequences with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u63	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u64	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our examination of this " turbo-collective", of this "Blitz collective", as the rapporteur-general calls it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u65	Ja wohl!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u66	...and I hope that the speed with which we examine it will not alter the quality of our work too much. I would like to refer briefly to the few problems posed by the application of the exceptional contribution on corporate tax and, above all, to draw some lessons for the future from this unfortunate affair. The first problem, mentioned earlier by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, is that of fiscal instability and unpredictability. Three weeks ago, a trajectory to reduce the SI rate to 25% was claimed, and today, a text is being adopted to increase the rate to 45% for the 2017 fiscal year. We thus send a very bad signal to the outside. In addition, we are amending the provisions for fiscal year 2017, on November 13, as the fiscal year ends. I know that the "small retroactivity" of the tax law is allowed, but still! Secondly, the list of 320 companies covered by the new tax clearly does not correspond to the list of companies benefiting from the refund of the dividend tax that has been cancelled. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for accepting the amendment providing for a report on the so-called winners and losers on 1 December. I am thinking in particular of very big losers – we will talk about it in a moment – such as the three networks of mutual banks, or all companies that have not, or few, distributed dividends in recent years, and which achieve a very good result in 2017. By the way, Minister, I repeat my proposal to work on two fiscal years: 2017 and 2018 – we will come back to that. I have a question for you, which joins that of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. You estimate the repayments to be committed to accounting or to be paid in 2017 at about 5 billion euros, and the return of the exceptional contribution that same year to just over 5 billion euros. But, since this exceptional contribution is calculated by increasing – by 15% or twice 15% for the largest companies – the corporation tax normally due for the 2017 fiscal year, and it is possible that the 2017 results are better than expected, given the return to growth – we will see this especially when the fifth instalment is paid, in mid-December – I wanted to know if you could commit to giving us the information immediately, because we will then look at the last collective at the end of the year. Moreover, what will you do with the surplus? Eric Woerth rightly asked the question of the consequences for the 2018 fiscal year: will there be a transfer for 2018? As Mr.Jean-Paul Mattei said, the introduction of the UFP in 2018 may result in less revenue. We would like an answer on the subject, because your vision, which is limited to fiscal year 2017, is too narrow. Between the "plus" and the "less", we do not see it very clearly. I come to the teachings for the future. Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, I would like to see an information mission set up quickly on these problems of litigation. First of all, there are the disputes already tried: I am thinking of the one relating to UCITS, or the Steria and Ruyter disputes. Secondly, there are the disputes that are currently pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Above all, and this is a new element, there are the risks that these disputes pose in domestic law, in particular through priority issues of constitutionality, with the reason given by the Constitutional Council, in a recent decision, of "discrimination backwards". Minister, this leads me to a more general reflection: I really wonder if our budgetary sovereignty is not being called into question. Article 13 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights states that "for the maintenance of the police force, and for administrative expenses, a joint contribution is indispensable: [...]". When, in 2012, the previous government had to replace the withholding tax on UCITS – which was expected to raise nearly 2 billion per year – after its invalidation by the Court of Justice of the European Union, it had two objectives: first, the one, perfectly legitimate, of return, since it was necessary to replace an invalidated tax; Then, a more political objective, in the logic of the Bourget discourse, which was to penalise the distribution of dividends. At the time, I had only intervened on a technical level, because I thought that the generalization of withholding was a better solution. This proposal was also included in the impact assessment. I did not mention at all the risk of incompatibility with the mother-daughter directive which, moreover, had just been published. But I had already been objected to at the time that the solution I proposed might run the risk of violating the principle of the free movement of capital, not only in Europe, but internationally, which I had, moreover, difficulty in understanding. The previous government considered, until the end of the procedure, until the beginning of 2017, that it could win the dispute and that, in these eyes, there was no violation of Article 4 of the Mother-daughter Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u67	He wasn't very wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u68	After the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in May 2017, there was a series of events which oblige us to reflect: transmission by the Council of State of a QPC to the Constitutional Council; finding a break in equality, "discrimination down" ; Finally, the constitutional judge, in application of his recent jurisprudence "Metro Holding France SA", simply invalidates a recipe, for a budgetary cost of 10 billion euros. In this context, I wonder whether budgetary sovereignty, an integral part of political sovereignty, is not called into question. It should not be forgotten that, in accordance with article 13 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, the primary objective, the natural purpose of taxation, is to finance public expenditure, the expenditure necessary for the life of the nation. However, this objective is no longer considered a priority, and there is a risk of a breach of equality and discrimination "in the place" or "in the place". This is all the more shocking in the light of European regulation, since there is paradoxically no tax harmonisation in the European Union, as illustrated by the example of the optimisation behaviour of GAFAs – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – which play on the disparity of rates or even bases, making it increasingly difficult for a State, in particular ours, to lift tax correctly and with any legal guarantee, in particular that on companies. This is a real problem of fiscal sovereignty. Mr Minister, you, who follow the European debates very closely, must also ask the question in these terms. If we were to achieve real tax harmonisation, we could accept all these constraints and the developments in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which we have a great deal of difficulty in predicting. But there is no such harmonisation. We are therefore faced with a situation of instability, which profoundly affects our public finances. In this connection, I would like to look back on what Mr Amélie de Montchalin has just said, which has referred to the constitutional judge. We, members of the opposition, will perhaps do you a great service by seizing the Constitutional Council of this collective – if Charles de Courson has the courage, he will return to it in a moment. In this way we may be able to avoid many difficulties, because if the Constitutional Council validates the almost single article of this collective, it will be difficult for it to invalidate the tax in question at a later stage, in the event of a QPC or a European decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the fact-finding mission which I would like to call on you will focus on litigation, but that the reflection will also be extended to the philosophy of taxation and budgetary sovereignty, which is part of the country's sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u70	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u71	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will once again support this first amending finance bill for 2017, which introduces an additional contribution to corporate tax aimed at partially offsetting the additional deficit of around EUR 10 billion on the state budget following the Constitutional Council's invalidation of the 3% dividend tax, censure itself following a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union which considered this tax not to be in conformity with the European Treaties in May. This decision creates a real difficulty. Indeed, this censorship of a budget text voted by the national representation, which comes several years after the entry into force of a finance law – I understand that the decision would be quicker for this text – puts us in a budgetary position as urgent as it is complex from a legal point of view. Gilles Carrez mentioned this, and it would be interesting to have a real reflection on the problems of budgetary balance caused by the partial censorship by the Constitutional Council of provisions relating to the revenue of a text such as the finance law. In my previous life, I have had the opportunity to comment on finance laws on many occasions, and I have found that the decisions of the Constitutional Council can completely unbalance the revenue provisions. Minister, you are referring to the report you requested, which I have not yet been able to analyse. Several avenues are emerging: securing the drafting of the law – one can only subscribe to it; risk analysis of litigation; follow-up of the tax dispute, with the issuing of alerts. But our tax legislation should also be stable, especially for reasons of attractiveness. We are approaching the new reading of this text, after the failure of last Friday's CMP, carried out very quickly. I regret this failure as well as the outright rejection of the bill, at first reading, by the Senate, which, by deleting clause 1, leaves the Government in front of its responsibilities, without proposing an alternative solution to the collection of supplementary revenues. Without this PLFR, the impact of the reimbursement of this tax on the state budget would be dramatic, and it is in the spirit of responsibility that the MODEM Group is committed to supporting it. This text, which is exceptional both in terms of the situation it intends to correct – the censorship of a tax and its repayment of EUR 10 billion – and in terms of its response – two exceptional contributions to corporate tax for an estimated return of around EUR 5 billion – provides for a balanced solution that remedyes the expenses incurred by the refund of this tax while proposing a temporary, temporary arrangement, since the increase in corporate tax should only marginally affect businesses, and be generally neutral. Indeed, although there will obviously be winning companies and losing companies in 2017, the corporate tax rate will decrease from 2018 onwards to 25% by 2022, which will benefit all the economic actors concerned. We recall here that, if the proposed solution is not optimal, it seems to us, in view of our willingness to leave the excessive deficit procedure as early as 2018, the most balanced. Last week, we had the opportunity to stress our commitment to respect the path of reducing the public deficit, as well as the need for concrete responses to the reform of the legislative procedure. While this reform must be able to give us tools to work on our laws and budgets in a less time-consuming manner – this has already been stressed – and with reflections and proposals ahead of the texts, and thus avoid the consideration of thousands of amendments at night sessions that are not conducive to the serenity of the debates, it is also our responsibility to bring forward bills and amendments in the direction of greater tax justice. Thus, on the budget texts, our group believes that consideration should be given to a simpler and more legible taxation: France is one of the OECD countries with the largest number of so-called "low-yield" taxes, such as the flour tax, the grain tax or many different taxes on production. Among these tens of low-yield taxes, many have very high management and recovery costs in proportion to their performance and whose objectives are indefinite or contrary to those of other taxes. Faced with this multiplicity of taxes, we have, perhaps by French tradition, a large number of exceptions: what are called tax niches. As such, the 239 pages of Volume II of the Annex Assessment of Ways and Means demonstrate, if necessary, the French inventiveness on the subject. The lack of legibility and complexity resulting from this situation have the effect of increasing the administrative burden on businesses in order to make the declarations necessary for each tax, and, for households, to favour those who are the best informed or most able to use the services of professionals who can inform them, thus increasing the risk of tax evasion or complex arrangements aimed at avoiding taxation, not to mention the risks of unconstitutionality of the texts when drafting the law. We are now obliged to respond to this constitutional risk and I believe that we are responding to it in the best possible way. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group as well as on several benches of the REM group]] If a ceiling and a time limit on tax expenditure were passed in the Public Finance Programming Act for 2018-2022, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement calls for a strong desire to monitor and evaluate tax niches and low-yield taxes, with a view to simplifying our taxation, which would lead to greater readability and thus to more justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u72	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u73	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this ten-minute speech I would like to update the speech I delivered a week ago. Minister, the procedure used does not respect the rights of Parliament or the procedure laid down in the Organic Law on Finance Laws. This point has been raised little. It seems to me that we are witnessing a violation of parliamentary procedure, since we are dealing with two amending financial laws, not successively but simultaneously. We have never seen this, since the draft amending finance bill that the majority will certainly vote, as usual, to regret it later – this is another debate – will be referred to the Constitutional Council. You will be presenting next Wednesday a new law of amending finances while the previous one has still not been published. It's a rather curious procedure! In addition, this practice violates article 32 of the Financial Laws Organization Act, which provides that "financial laws present in a sincere manner all the resources and charges of the State". Neither the amending finance bill nor the initial finance bill for 2018 – I will come back to that – are sincere. This is the case with the draft amending finance law, for example, for which you have not updated the revenue according to the information you have, nor the expenditure, except for the opening of the reimbursement lines. I will develop the same argument with respect to the original finance bill. Moreover, the High Council for Public Finance refused to give an opinion on this PLFR considering, quite rightly, that "this lack of updating does not put it in a position to give an overall assessment of the macroeconomic framework and the forecast of public finances associated with this PLFR". These are already two reasons for unconstitutionality based on form. As far as the substance is concerned, you have multiplied the legal and constitutional problems, first of all with regard to budgetary law since, as I said, it is not only this first PLFR for 2017 but also the PLF for 2018 that are insinuating. When we started discussing the latter, you were already familiar with the Constitutional Council's decision. But you haven't updated the recipes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u75	You could table an amendment. Now, while in your forecast, which I am challenging, the budgetary impact is €4.4 billion on the 2018 deficit, you have not tabled an amendment! The text also appears to be contrary to three constitutional principles. First of all, it seems to be contrary to the principle of equality. By creating two taxes, increasing one of the 318 companies with more than EUR 1 billion in turnover by 15%, and the other of the 110 companies with more than 3 billion turnover by 30%, the text leads to a break in equality between companies, as the amount of profit, a relevant indicator of their contributing powers, within the meaning of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, is not linked to the amount of turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u77	Secondly, the turnover retained is not the consolidated turnover for the consolidated groups, whereas the parent company will pay these new taxes on the base of its consolidated IS. On the other hand, for foreign groups, it is the subsidiaries established in France that will settle them. This brings back to a problem raised in the IGF report, namely the breakdown of equality between French companies, or those based in France, and those based on companies based abroad. The breach of equality also exists when a company, which did not distribute dividends between 2013 and 2016 and therefore did not pay a 3% dividend tax, is a beneficiary in 2017 and will therefore have to pay the new taxes, while a company, which has distributed many dividends between 2013 and 2016 but is in deficit in 2017, will be reimbursed the amount of taxes paid on the dividends paid, while being exempt from the new taxes. The breach of equality is evident for mutual insurance companies which, by statute, cannot distribute dividends, and were therefore exempt in nature from the 3% tax, and which will have to pay this new tax. These could include listed real estate investment companies that were exempt from the 3% tax and will be liable for these new taxes. One could also mention the case of the three mutual banking networks which often do not distribute or very few dividends, and which will be hit by these new taxes for a balance of more than EUR 1 billion. The second principle is non-retroactivity. The principle of non-retroactivity does not apply in tax matters, except for what is called "small retroactivity". However, the Constitutional Council has formulated two cumulative reservations in this regard. If this text respects the first, it does not respect the second, namely the existence of an imperative ground of general interest. On this point, the Constitutional Council does not accept that a purely financial reason can justify the infringement of legally acquired situations. Now, that's what you're doing. The Constitutional Council will have to decide on this point. The text also appears to be contrary to the third principle of property rights. One may wonder whether the accumulation of these taxes does not lead to the exceedance of the acceptable limit for levies, set by the Constitutional Council between 70% and 75%. I take, among the more than 300 companies concerned, the example of a real estate company submitted to the IS: for 100 euros of profit, in 2017, under the IS, of the two new taxes in question and of the additional contribution to the IS, it will pay 44.4 euros. Therefore, only EUR 55.6 remain. However, considering that the shareholder of a real estate company is still taxed on the "new formula FSI" and that the combined cap on the FSI, the CSG and the RSI is 75%, there is only 25% left of €55.6, or about €14. The proposed scheme therefore impacts the constitutional ceiling if the Constitutional Council expands its jurisprudence to include IS and the two new taxes, not to mention the additional contribution, which is still not abolished in 2017. Finally, this text is contrary to European law, a point raised by the IGF in its report. In the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the compatibility of these two taxes with the two principles of freedom of movement of capital and non-discrimination between companies within the European Union can be questioned. In fact, the French tax-integrated groups can offset the deficits of their subsidiaries with the profits of their other subsidiaries located in France, since your new tax is calculated on the consolidated IS, whereas this is not the case for the groups whose parent company is located in another European country and which cannot charge on the profits of their French subsidiaries the deficits of their subsidiaries located in a third country. This project also affects France's attractiveness policy, since we are doing exactly the opposite of what the other countries are doing, starting with a massive increase in the IS rate, even though the Government, like the previous one and, indeed, like almost all members of the right-wing and central opposition, is saying that this rate, which is the highest in Europe, must be lowered. Another solution was possible. The member of the Constructive Group that I am once again tells you this: in the face of this difficulty for which you are not responsible – you have inherited it – you have never brought together the various political currents, to present them with the three or four possible solutions in order to determine the best or the least bad. That's what I would have done for you. We have never been consulted on the subject. We're surprised after the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u78	We discussed it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u79	Well, in order to protect you, Minister, we will refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. If I were you, I would seize him myself for not having to undergo, in two or three years' time, if we did not make this appeal, a new annulment following a priority question of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u81	It's a matter of caution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u82	Indeed, much of the mechanism that you are proposing to us can be subject to the same criticisms as the 3% tax on distributed dividends, which are the source of the Constitutional Council's censorship. Will I have the cruelty to reread the synthesis of the IGF report that we discovered in the session? I do not resist the pleasure of quoting from you a chosen piece: "The construction too fast, in the self, unstable of this standard [the tax standard] has led to a waste for companies and a massive budgetary stalemate and has made it difficult to meet the political commitments made to the French and to our European partners". We can't say better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u84	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u85	Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have met again this afternoon to discuss the draft amending finance law for 2017. This new reading follows the failure of the Joint Joint Committee on Friday morning, 10 November, particularly in view of the Senate's deletion of Article 1. For all purposes and to enlighten those who look at us, I would like to point out that this text aims to create a corporate tax surtax for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion. This proposal is intended to compensate for the refund of the 3% dividend tax that has been in effect for the past four years. This tax, the Court of Justice of the European Union, found it to be contrary to the Mother-daughter Directive. And it was in the context of the consideration of a priority issue of constitutionality that the members of the rue de Montpensier declared it contrary to the Constitution. I do not go back in detail to the various steps that lead us to debate the introduction of this tax. Let me refer you to the comments of my colleague Valérie Rabault, who took up the chronology perfectly last Monday. Since we must legislate in absolute urgency, in spite of the clarity and respect that should prevail, let us at least take advantage of this moment to ask ourselves some questions in order to fulfil our task as legislators concerned with control and good information. The main one is: how can we be sure that such a situation does not happen again? Mr Minister, you have provided us with suggestions and I thank you for that: you will agree that their study and the conditions for their implementation can only be carried out on the basis of a discussion which cannot be confined to the Chamber. The framework of the Committee on Finance seems more necessary than ever. These provisions are based on good intentions. In the meantime, what can we say today to our fellow citizens, who will have to pay part of the EUR 10 billion we have to repay? And what to tell them, tomorrow, if such a situation arises? You're sweeping this question with a back of your hand, as if it were absurd. But if we insist so much on our benches as on other benches in this House, it is good that the question is important! You have still not answered us about the exact impact of this measure. Who, precisely, will be the payers? Who will be the winners and losers? The mere fact that 95 companies would win and 223 would lose is for parliamentarians only partial and certainly unreassuring information about the future. It should be recalled, however, that some companies are currently filing appeals against the State. In a few months or a few years, the provisions you are proposing could further increase the burden and sluggish the calculation, with billions of euros in addition to the 10 billion that are the subject of our debates. This element of uncertainty would suffice to explain the consistency that we will once again demonstrate in voting against this amending finance bill. However, two other points also motivate our position. I want to come back for a second. The first point concerns the level of the moratorium interest that the State will have to pay. We will also support amendments to reduce the current rate of 4.8%. As you are so quick to grant patents of good management and budgetary sincerity, you admit without brows that this situation obliges France to pay €1.3 million of interest a day if it does not immediately repay its tax debt. Funny design... For our part, it seems urgent to make the level of the interest rate more consistent with the reality of the economic environment. That will be the meaning of the amendments that I will defend. To show you that we are not closed to anything, we will also offer you solutions of withdrawal. I would like to recall that the rate of interest on moratoria has been amended by the 2006 Finance Act. By changing this rate, we remain in our role. What we have done, we can adapt it to the circumstances, and that is very good. I come to our second point of opposition. If I mention it for a few moments before concluding, it is nevertheless essential. Again, it is permissible to question your method – I denounce it – since you take advantage of this text to ask Parliament to ratify the advance decree of 20 July 2017. Without resuming the debate that has now taken place for more than a month in the context of the 2018 review of the finance bill, I would like to take this intervention in the gallery to remind you that this Order-in-Council alone crystallizes all the elements that, in my view, may make your budget sincere – you repeat it to the envious, but this remains to be proved – but also make it a hard budget, which strikes those who are already suffering. With the decline in personalized housing support – APL – the abolition of aided contracts and the reduction of allocations to communities, who are deprived of their support funds, it is the double penalty for our neighbourhoods and our rural areas! It is often said that the beginning measures of quinquennium print the brand for the sequel and indicate a general tone. Your majority didn't wait long, since you acted in the summer. You have heavily confirmed your decisions in the fall, and the consequences of your choices will soon be felt for our most fragile citizens. Finally, a word characterizes this text: injustice. This injustice lies, on the one hand, in the exceptional arrangement that you are asking us to approve and of which we do not know anything about the future – as I said – and, on the other hand, in the measures that you have taken and which are a blow to the purchasing power of the most fragile. For all these reasons, our group will not vote on this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u87	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u88	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, if we are here today, it is because a dividend tax has just been invalidated. In our view, taxing dividends further is legitimate and indispensable. In fact, in 30 years, the ratio between dividend distribution, investment and wage levels has largely reversed to the benefit of shareholders. Today, capital is much better paid than labour. It's more profitable to have money than to be qualified. It is more profitable to buy shares than to get up every morning to put on a blue work, go to the office, drive a bus, teach in front of a class of thirty students, treat patients or ensure the protection of our fellow citizens. In order to combat this deadly financialization of the economy, we propose to further tax the payment of dividends. For us, this 3% tax was legitimate – we would have even wanted to double it! If it does not comply with European rules, then it is the European rules that need to be changed. If the Constitutional Council rejects such taxes, then it is necessary to amend the Constitution, as we proposed in the context of the establishment of a Sixth Republic. We keep repeating this: the share of profits made by companies and taken over by shareholders reaches peaks. However, encouraging dividend payments means discouraging investment and preventing wage increases. It is to limit the capitalization of companies that need it. It is depriving the real economy of much of the national wealth. It is not the shareholders who create wealth by the strength of their arms and the activity of their neurons. They are not the ones who suffer from hard work either. The profitors are not those who are regularly pointed at. More than ever, we must limit the obscene financialization of our economy. The removal of the 3% contribution on dividends is therefore unjustified, if not immoral. In addition to the EUR 10 billion that we need to repay today in an emergency, such a measure will cost us EUR 2 billion a year, since it is the annual amount that this tax could have brought back. However, our solutions are not limited to restoring such a tax. The 40% dividend reduction should also be removed, as we proposed in an amendment defended during the discussion of the first part of the 2018 Finance Bill. Our goal is to limit the interests of shareholders in order to serve the general interest, which is the exact opposite of what you propose by making the State contribute, so all of us, to the amount of 5 billion euros to repay the shareholders. In addition, a comprehensive reform of corporate taxation should be undertaken. You are reducing taxes on business and capital more and more. Your only solution to fight tax evasion is to propose ever more tax cuts and tax niches. So, as you bleed public services, put local authorities on the diet, and rid yourself of industrial florets, you're planning to do without tens of billions of euros in revenue by lowering the corporate tax rate a little further, since that's what you're proposing in the 2018 Finance Bill. This rate has been falling steadily over the last 30 years, with no effect on job creation or private investment. Its increase from 50 per cent in 1985 to 33.3 per cent in 2010 has led to an increase in the distribution of dividends. This is outrageous! In 2016, 46 billion euros were distributed by large French companies in the form of dividends, which is a European record. In 2017, this record will again be broken as dividends are expected to reach EUR 100 billion, or two thirds of the profits of companies. To pay so many dividends, multinationals hire hundreds of tax lawyers and circumvent taxes. The Council for Compulsory Deductions indicated in 2009 that CAC 40 companies had an actual tax rate of 8%. The State must not be powerless in the face of these societies. We therefore hope that the Government will tackle the tools of optimisation and tax fraud, and that it will help SMEs rather than large groups. Thus, we are not opposed in principle to the reduction of corporate tax, but all unnecessary tax niches should be removed, which are only used to allow large groups to lower their effective tax rates. These niches would be easily identified since the Court of Auditors regularly denounces them. This is the case, for example, of the "Copé niche", which introduces a corporate tax exemption for capital gains received by natural or legal persons, especially holding companies, in the case of the sale of their subsidiaries or equity interests held for more than two years. This tax niche, unnecessary and extremely costly for the state, benefits a small handful of very large companies. It is only justified by the tax dumping which is taking place in the European Union, blackmail in which we do not want to return. That is why we have already tabled an amendment to delete this provision. This is also the case with the reduced exemptions and taxation of products attached to capitalisation and life insurance vouchers or contracts, which we also proposed to abolish. These tax exemption schemes encourage financial investments, which are however totally unproductive for the country. Indeed, the aim of life insurance is absolutely not to support investment in the real economy, in our industries, in the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us remember, however, that these schemes cost the state 1.8 billion euros, which is far from negligible! By removing the two tax niches we have just mentioned, we could easily have found the EUR 5 billion of repayments that remain at the expense of the state. But in order to find those 5 billions, we could also abolish – or at least postpone for a year, as we proposed in an amendment at first reading – the single flat-rate levy and the abolition of the ISF. First of all, let's talk about this flat tax that will benefit the richest, like any single-rate taxation. Here, this flat tax even concerns the income of capital: it will therefore benefit the ultra-rich holders of shares. Its cost to the State will be exorbitant: the Government is talking about a cost of 1.3 billion euros, but some economists, like Gabriel Zucman, are talking about a cost that could actually amount to more than 10 billion euros, a figure that we did not fail to question the Government, on several occasions, during our interventions. The Government explains to us that this levy will not make any losers, but it will indeed fuel what our country has suffered for many years: the profitability of uninvested capital. For years, all these mechanisms have given capitalist rent something to waste and have no effect on investment. On the contrary, investment is falling and dividends are exploding. Indeed, the distribution between dividends and investments has steadily deteriorated in favour of dividends, and the same policy is still being pursued. Is it just a matter of giving gifts to friends and loved ones? If this is not the case, why should the ISF's revenue be reduced by EUR 3.2 billion – a cost that should be added to the 1.3 billion flat tax – while productive investments will not be realized as no counterpart is imposed? That policy had failed for thirty years, but the Government was pursuing it. Let's just talk about your reform of the ISF, which is nothing but an obscene €3.2 billion tax gift for the 1 % of the richest French. You are talking about reform, but in reality you are "emptying" the ISF: you want to exclude more than 70% of the wealth of the 1 % of the richest Frenchman, and even 80% of the wealth of the small club of the 30 000 most affluent households. You claim to encourage the ultra-rich in this country to buy shares, allegedly to finance companies. It makes no sense: you will only encourage speculative practices that are unrelated to the needs of companies for fresh money. Cajoler the millionaires and billionaires never stopped them from doing anything to escape tax, through tax optimisation or tax evasion, by setting themselves up fictitiously in tax havens, as we have just seen very recently with the Paradise Papers scandal. The purpose of the tax is normally to ensure a redistribution of wealth guaranteeing republican equality. In the current state of affairs, however, the very rich make little contribution to the national effort. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking for an additional EUR 5 billion to repay companies. Why not charge the richest in this country? In this sense, during our consideration of the first part of the 2018 Finance Bill, we argued for an amendment to restore real tax escalation. Since 2002, the ISF has been diverted from its meaning by multiple derogations. Its current base already excludes many goods. As it stands, the ISF is paid by households whose assets exceed EUR 1.3 million; In view of a 30% discount on the principal residence, it concerns only 300,000 households with a property only millions of French can hardly imagine. The ISF must therefore be strengthened. We have proposed a clear, progressive, non-confiscatory scale, allowing large fortunes to contribute to the national effort to redress public accounts. It distinguishes the wealthy, who would be subject to a marginal rate of 0.1%, and the very large fortunes, beyond EUR 5 million, for which the marginal rate would be 2%. In addition, we foresee a flat-rate reduction of 400,000 euros on the main residence, which would favour the upper middle classes but penalise the most wealthy. We recall in passing that this scale was defended by the Copernicus Foundation and economist Thomas Piketty, which could end up convincing the most refractory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u89	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You refused to vote on this amendment during the examination of the first part of the 2018 Finance Bill. But it was before we learned that there was an urgent need to find an additional EUR 5 billion. We will therefore repropose this solution in the context of the discussion of the second part of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u91	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u92	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, it is in difficult, unforeseen times that a majority is judged to be determined and solid. But we are living a difficult time. Without reaction from the Government, we would be the only country in Europe to remain in an excessive deficit situation, i.e. not to comply with its European commitments. The latest forecasts from the European Commission show that we cannot take any freedom with the trajectory we have set ourselves. France is expected: it must demonstrate its budgetary credibility in order to gain the right to be heard by Europe. We have repeatedly stated this in this rostrum, but we will never say it enough: if we do not regain this budgetary credibility, then we will undermine our reform capacity – that of the President of the Republic – on the European scene. That is the issue we are facing. We discussed widely in this House at first reading the technical issues of this amending finance bill. We have heard the arguments put forward by Members sitting on all the benches of the House; Minister Bruno Le Maire replied. Why not wait until the PLFR at the end of the year to vote for this exceptional contribution, which would have made it possible for us to avoid working in an emergency? It is true that we are working urgently, but if we had waited for the initial review of the PLFR we could not have adopted this surtax until 20 December – which would have led us to break the deficit nails. Why not weigh all the EUR 10 billion that the state has to repay to companies on these same companies? In other words, why do we have to respect the Constitutional Council's decision? Ignoring this decision voluntarily did not seem to us to be democratically responsible or economically feasible, as such conduct could seriously destabilize our country's businesses. Why not perpetuate this surtax in time? This suggestion, which we refuse, allows us to reiterate that our economic trajectory, the one we have chosen, does indeed include a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 33% to 25% over the five-year period. Our majority is not afraid to say that it is firmly on the side of companies when they create value and jobs. Conversely, why have we not chosen alternatives to this corporate tax surtax? Because none of the other options, however attractive they might seem, would have allowed us to maintain our fiscal trajectory for 2017. The decision we must make, informed by our discussions, is a political decision. Indeed, the dividend tax itself made a political choice, a questionable political choice that became a culpable stubbornness. Now we have to make a responsible decision while learning from this episode. One of the lessons we can learn from all this is that we should listen a little more to the wisdom advice given in this House. This was recalled: voices had been raised in 2012 to warn about the risks of this tax. I have the feeling that such wisdom advice was heard during the first reading of this text. This is evidenced by the adoption of amendments by several groups, concerning the smoothing of the thresholds for the application of the surtax, the additional period for companies, or the submission of a report by 1 December on the losing and winning companies of the scheme. Despite the urgency, we have worked – you have worked – to improve this PLFR. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Now is the time to decide. A majority of senators, whether Republican or Communist, chose not to vote on Article 1: we regret it. But if the hand of the Senate trembled when it came to making a decision in the general interest, I would like to tell you again here that the hand of our majority will not tremble.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u93	Brilliant display!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u94	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u95	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we meet this Monday to consider this amending finance bill again, one week exactly after its first reading by our House. My remarks will be organized in three points. First point: how did we get to this point? How can we explain to our fellow citizens that the French state introduced in 2012 an additional contribution to corporate tax that is not in conformity with the Constitution? How can we understand, moreover, that it was necessary to wait until 6 October 2017, the date of the decision of the Constitutional Council, to see – by taking full advantage of them – the consequences of these five years of improper levies? Why has there not been a reaction to the signals, the alerts, the questions of the few people who, at that time, reacted, expressed their fears, their doubts? I am thinking, in particular, of Gilles Carrez and Charles de Courson, who had intervened in 2012 on this subject, alerting against the risks. What are the reasons for the lack of analysis, at state level, of the "Steria SCA Group" judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2 September 2015, which delineates the main objective of the tax integration regime and the direct advantages attached to it? You yourself, Minister, have described this as a "state scandal" – these words are strong. You have commissioned a report from the General Inspectorate of Finance to shed light on the matter, which I thank you for. This report was submitted to us today. I was only able to go through a few passages; I am surprised, however, by some points. For example, on pages 30 and 31, we learn that "By a note to the Minister dated June 19, 2015, the DLF [the Directorate of Tax Legislation] alerted the office of the Minister of Finance and Public Accounts" but that "despite the alarmist nature of this note [...] no adaptation of the scheme is envisaged". I insist that it is Marie-Christine Petit herself, head of the General Inspectorate of Finance, who calls this note "alarmist". However, there will be no reaction until 11 October 2016, almost 15 months later. Why this fifteen-month inertia on a major problem? In view of the size of the sums involved, this question must not remain unanswered. You have mentioned, Minister, ways of working so that a situation of this nature does not happen again: I welcome it. I also welcome the proposals included in the IGF report, in particular that legal certainty should be strengthened by means of an inventory and follow-up of tax disputes. Second point: the extreme speed of the procedure adopted for this amending finance bill for 2017. In order to pay the €10 billion, the Government, which had already provided €5.7 billion, decided to introduce two exceptional corporate tax surtaxes. In a few days, in great haste, a draft law of amending finance plans to involve large companies in order to find 5 billion euros in the emergency. We had less than two frank days to amend the text at first reading, and only thirty minutes, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, to amend the text of the Senate before it was considered by the Assembly's Finance Committee. Gilles Carrez said it and repeated it: we have never known an examination carried out to such a point at the pace of charge! These are really not the conditions for Parliament to do serious work. The Government did not show the same speed to update the macroeconomic scenario underlying the draft amending finance bill, while you, Minister, said on 2 November last that the latest growth figures are very good, and added that cumulative growth is already 1.7 per cent. A 1.8% growth assumption is therefore likely, which would result in a positive effect of EUR 1.4 billion on the government balance. But you are imposing, without taking into account this beneficial effect, an exceptional surtax on the 320 largest French companies, which should bring in 5.4 billion euros. Minister, there is still time: are you prepared to review macroeconomic forecasts and assumptions before setting the rates of these exceptional contributions? The third point is that this contribution will be profoundly unfair for some companies. Besides, she's not sending a good signal. While companies are asking for readability and stability, while they want to be able to anticipate, predict, the Government is changing the rules of the game in the course of the game. Finally, I would like to ask you a question, minister: will the introduction of a contribution valid for a single year not have an influence on the accounting and tax choices of companies for the 2017 accounting order? The LR group had proposed to smooth these two contributions over two years, in order to avoid excessive taxation in 2017 and to reduce the effects of tax optimisation. Minister, have you considered the accounting factors by which companies could optimize their tax bases between 2017 and 2018? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the hope of having answers to my questions, I would like to point out, in conclusion, that the tax must be fair, fair, stable and balanced: more than ever, we must ensure that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u97	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u98	Madam President, the rapporteur-general, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are obliged to put back on the job this "super-tax" that you want to impose on the 300 largest French companies to repay the some 10 billion euros that the state has wanted – wrongly, according to the Constitutional Council – to punctuate on the dividends of these same companies. It's a show you'd have done well with, and so would we. But he is no stranger to you, as you try to make us believe! I know – we know – that you do not like to be reminded of it, but it is some of your people who are at the origin of this huge blunder, of this monumental failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u100	It is too easy to talk about "state scandal" as you do, Mr. Minister of Economy, or about "amateurism" as proclaimed, from television set to radio studio, the government spokesman, Christophe Castaner. It's too easy when, at the same time, you ignore your own responsibilities, your own amateurism, your own incompetence! Because it's all about that. You said that last week in this House, minister: when this tax was adopted in 2012, it might be possible to imagine, despite the warnings, that it would pass between drops. But that was no longer the case after 2015: you have emphasized it yourself several times. After 2015, in fact, after the warnings of the European Commission, it was no longer permissible to ignore the serious doubts about its legality. And since the National Assembly has a power – I will even say: a duty – of control, which the Head of State would like to strengthen, what interests me, today as last week, is responsibilities. Who was in charge then? Any strangers? Missing people? Of course not! They are the same people who, today with memory disorders, denounce what they had put in place! You want names? I'll call you back. Alexis Kohler, the current secretary general of the Élysée, was then the cabinet director of the Minister of Economy. Amélie Verdier, responsible today for finding these famous 10 billion euros, was none other than Jérôme Cahuzac's chief of staff, minister delegated to the budget, who, decisively, cannot be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u102	But there is no question of stopping at the lampists – if I dare to say, even though they are, in this case, luxury lampists. As you pointed out, minister, it is the ministers who are responsible, not the public servants. So, who was above all this little world? Who was at the very heart of power, in the holy of the saints of decision-making? Our current Head of State! Who can imagine that as Deputy Secretary General of the Elysée, responsible for economics and finance, Emmanuel Macron was totally alien to the adoption of this tax? Who can imagine that as Minister of Economy and Finance, in 2015, when doubt was no longer allowed, he was alien to his continued existence? No one! None of this, of course, exempts socialists: Pierre Moscovici, Jérôme Cahuzac, Michel Sapin... We owe them so many mistakes, so many risky decisions, so many unfulfilled promises that, out of Christian charity, I will refrain from adding to them. Electors also made them pay quite a price! And now what are you doing? You're doing it again. You're minting, you're concocting a new tax, a surtax, this time on profits and more on dividends – at the risk of being very unfair and being recaptured once again by the Constitutional Council. At risk, too, of pretending to be pitres, to be incompetent. At the risk, above all, of weaning companies that need so much – they keep saying it and saying it again – of an administrative, economic, fiscal framework known, stable, in short: anything but unpredictable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u103	And you, what are you proposing as a solution? Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u104	Prudent, the Senate did not want to tempt the devil – in this case the Constitutional Council – and rejected this new tax. After the troubles we have experienced, this caution seems to me to be struck at the corner of common sense. But we're going to have to pay the bill. MM. Carrez and Courson pleaded to divide by two the State's rate of 4.8% of the State's interest payable on this tax. The potential savings are in the order of 500 million: it seems to me that we have a good lead to explore. Let's not rush again. Let us take the time to examine the various solutions available to us. In 2016, Minister, you won the Press Club Grand Prize for saying, "My intelligence is an obstacle." It was the price of political humour. But we shouldn't end up taking this little joke seriously!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u105	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u106	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Government is under an obligation to promptly repay EUR 10 billion to companies. He proposes that we vote for a new tax targeted at the 320 largest companies, which is expected to raise about EUR 5.4 billion. This leads to two legitimate questions: Is that the right amount? Is that the right timing? Let's talk about the amount first. By reason of the limitations, the Government could have either failed to propose a tax at all or proposed a contribution of $10 billion. The limits ranged from 0 to 10! But without a new tax, what would we have heard in the Chamber: "gift to businesses", probably to the left; "budgetary laxity", on the right... But increasing our deficit and increasing our debt is simply an impossible option! Putting the deficit below 3% of GDP as early as 2017 is an imperative. This is the case with respect to our European commitments, the credibility of France and the proper conduct of the nation's accounts. At the other end, creating a tax of EUR 10 billion would have severely penalized our businesses as we regain their trust. At this level of levy, we should have brutally affected very many companies at a dizzying level of taxation! I know that some people dream of taxing businesses infinity, or even that this new tax is perpetuated, but I confess that I do not understand this aggressiveness, this distrust, the vehementness they manifest towards the company: we cannot at the same time scream when they earn money and scream when they do not earn any more and they must close! Lowering corporate taxes means giving them the opportunity to invest, export, conduct research and development, and improve the working conditions of their employees. Who in this House has another solution to reduce unemployment than to allow businesses to grow? So, halfway between these two unrealistic solutions, the measure proposed by the Government, an exceptional tax of 5.4 billion, seems to me balanced not only by its size, but also because it is concentrated on the largest and most profitable companies and, moreover, is not based on turnover, which could have penalized firms in difficulty, but on profit. And let us stop comparing it to the 3% tax on dividends that is not constitutional, therefore cannot be renewed and moreover should never have existed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u107	Tell Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u108	No excessive nostalgia about this because taxing dividends is imposing profits already taxed on corporate taxes, I would remind you. To bring the deficit below the 3% of GDP mark, as we have made a contribution to all departmental budgets this summer, this time we are asking companies to make an exceptional contribution. It is not a matter of gaiety as much as we know the central role that companies have in our economy, but it is the least bad solution. Let me turn to my second question. We're being blamed, I just heard it here or there, the calendar, the urgency! But did we have a choice? To spread this new tax over two years or three years was to run the risk of taking away its exceptional character. But let us not allow doubt to be instilled in the heads of the players in the world economy: this tax is one-off, unique, it is one shot! Our road map is to permanently reduce the corporate tax rate so that it is only 25% at the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u109	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u110	Doing so now is also minimizing the risk of optimising profits in 2017 – too late for large manoeuvres...! ; Doing so now, without spending weeks in reports and discussions, is also to warn companies as soon as possible, which seems to me to be the least of all given the effort required of them. Finally, delaying the payment of part of the 10 billion due by delaying the expected receipts of this new tax would increase the amount of interest moratoriums. To act quickly is therefore the right solution, the only solution! I will end by thanking the companies for this exceptional effort...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u111	They don't have much choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] ...and when I see their reactions rather contained, their sense of responsibility. After the 2017 budget, the many under-budgetings – on assisted jobs or on territories with positive energy for green growth for example – and now this 10 billion slate, let's agree that the legacy is heavy! But it will not distract us from our goal of re-establishing our economy and public accounts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u113	The last speaker on the list is Mr Pierre Person.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u114	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the Joint Committee obliges us to reconsider this text. This amending finance bill is imposed on us by a concern for seriousness, responsibility and sincerity. On the one hand, the Group of the Republicans explains to us that asking for an additional tax effort from a company would be unfair at a time when we intend to ensure that the whole economic fabric is preserved: we should not at the same time touch the economic actors and not aggravate our budget deficit. On the other hand, some left-wing groups ask us not to reimburse companies for an unconstitutional tax that they have had to pay, thus flouting our rule of law and the constitutional principle of the legality of taxation; In addition, it is even proposed that this tax be sanctified even though our country already has one of the heaviest taxes in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u115	That you're going to worsen again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u116	Still others are proposing that we wait and take action tomorrow that can be taken today, even though we need to act quickly and effectively to avoid paying moratorium interest. We assume our choice, that of acting in responsibility and to break with previous methods by resolving the residuals of the past. We take note of a $10 billion charge that we inherited. In contrast to what has been done, we reject ostrich policy, even though this political choice is difficult. We need to purge the passive and stop procrastination. Taking responsibility means meeting our commitments to our European partners as early as 2018: we are the only country, together with Spain, in a situation of excessive budget deficit, our country must respect the Stability and Growth Pact and the Budget Treaty to finally regain its political and economic credibility on the European scene. We must break with the methods of the past, those of a France unable to comply with the European rules which it itself has negotiated and approved. While on a large part of the benches of our Chamber we want a re-founded Europe, we cannot continue to do so. France has already been granted three additional deadlines in order to meet its commitments: the first commitment to go below the 3% mark dates from 2012, it was postponed for the first time in 2013, a second time in 2015, once again in 2017... This year will be the last time! Taking responsibility means meeting our commitments to economic actors: the two exceptional contributions that the Government is asking us to vote on do not hinder our objective of reducing the tax burden on our companies and thereby improving the competitiveness of our SMEs, since they will target only the 320 largest companies and the rate will be adjusted according to turnover. Thus, an exceptional contribution equal to 15% of the amount of corporate tax will be paid only by companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion, and an additional contribution of 15% by companies with a turnover of more than EUR 3 billion. In addition, the transformation of the CICE into a reduction of long-term contributions, the reduction of the SI rate to 25% in 2022 and the removal of the contribution of 3% on the amount of dividends distributed, the companies will be clearly winning at the end of the quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, taking responsibility means giving itself the capacity to improve the quality of the law a priori and to monitor the action of the State more effectively. The dividend tax series is, I believe, deeply indicative of the difficulties facing our Parliament: lack of resources reserved for control activity, heavy dependence on administration, an over-year legislative procedure which means that we are not always in a position to fully assume our role. This episode gives a poor image of our parliament and refers to the eyes of the French a form of amateurism. As anti-parliamentarianism grows, we have a duty to reform our institution so that it fully fulfils the role conferred on it by the Constitution of the Fifth Republic. Censorship of the dividend tax reminds us that our rule of law has evolved since 1958 towards a more posteriori control of the constitutionality of the law, and we must welcome this strengthened control. On the other hand, we must note that the means devoted a priori to improving the texts are far too weak. After the adoption of this amending finance bill, which proposes an effective and responsible solution to a problem which has unfortunately not been anticipated, we must make a commitment, ladies and gentlemen, to do everything possible to strengthen our institution's means of control so that such a situation does not happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u117	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u118	I am not going to repeat the whole argument on the finance bill and the amending finance bill, because it seems to me that the debate has sometimes gone astray on matters other than what brings us together today. I will focus on the comments on the legislative procedure, the annulment of the 3% tax and its consequences. First of all, with regard to the legislative procedure, and I say this particularly for Charles de Courson, the Government strictly respects it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u119	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u120	All the choices we have made are marked by sincerity, rigour and transparency. We can challenge some of these choices, it is all the merit of democracy, but the procedure we follow is indisputable. We have seized the High Council for Public Finance, followed the formal rules on the content of the text – introductory article and balancing article. This amending finance bill is sincere: it updates the state's revenue on the basis of the public forecasts of September and draws the consequences of the cancellation of the dividend tax linked to the censorship of the Constitutional Council on 6 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u121	This is not the filing date of the PLFR!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u122	I do not dispute the need for additional revenue and expenditure adjustments: they will be included in the next amending finance bill, which will be discussed after the final vote. The Government has been completely transparent. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have had lengthy debates about why the Government was adopting the procedure for a bill on amending finance: it is a matter of recovering revenues before 20 December so that they can be recorded in the 2017 fiscal year, with the objective always being to keep the nation's public accounts well and to honour our European commitments. I would point out that if these revenues were received later, they could not be credited for 2017, in which case we would not be able to meet our European commitments. This is where the bottom line lies: there are those who want to respect them and those who consider these commitments to be ancillary. We believe that this is essential and we draw all the consequences in terms of procedure. I would add that if the PLF for 2018 could not obviously draw the consequences of censorship, which was not yet known at the time of its submission, I confirm that the Government will propose during the shuttle to coordinate the balance of the PLF for 2018. All of this should respond to the questions that have been raised on this subject. Some have told me that the revenues should be much higher than expected given the very good growth, we should rely on additional revenues... I'm sticking to my prudence. I refuse to rely on shirobolic recipes for 2017. We will see what will happen, but I believe that what has happened in previous years shows that prudence in the management of public finances is a good advisor and will avoid decisions that can then be denied by the facts. With regard to transparency, I have proposed that a report on the companies concerned be submitted to you in December. At that time, however, we will not have all the figures. So, Mr Gilles Carrez, if we have to complete the information in this report and bring new information from the filings of applications made in the meantime, we will be happy to do so. We will provide you with all the additional information regarding the claims that have been filed by the companies. The report will be submitted to you in December, and all additional information will be available in January. Transparency will continue to be my policy, as it has been with regard to the ISF, the dividend tax and the exceptional contribution. It seems to me that this is a guarantee of confidence vis-à-vis parliamentarians but above all vis-à-vis all the French. With regard to listed real estate companies, the CISs, I would like to point out a point of detail which is important: I would point out that these companies are not subject to corporate tax, so the dividends they distribute do not benefit from the 40% reduction. There is no risk that these companies, which will not have to pay the exceptional contribution, will be taxed at exorbitant rates, as Mr de Courson expressed his concern. Mrs Ménard, you have been pleased, if I may, by questioning Emmanuel Macron, but you have confused the dates, the duties and the responsibilities. You said that in 2015, the latter was "in the saint of the saints", where all the decisions are made: at the Elysée.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u123	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u124	For the sake of intellectual rigor, I do nothing but quote you word for word. But it turns out that in 2015, Emmanuel Macron was no longer stationed at the Elysée, in "the saint of the saints", as you say: he was minister of economy and finance. However, the Minister of Economy and Finance has no responsibility for public finances. In particular, the management of tax legislation is not under his authority: Emmanuel Macron therefore did not have to deal with these issues. Madam Member, I recommend that you remain strict as to the administrative reality of our state. Public finances are under the authority of the Minister of Finance. If it happens that he is also Minister of the Economy, which is my case, it was not Emmanuel Macron's in 2015: so he cannot be held responsible for what happened from 2015 onward with respect to this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u125	And in 2012?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u126	Let's go to 2012: as I told you, I have made total transparency my course. Read the report, Mr. Member of Parliament. If you had taken the time to read it, you would not exclaim: 2012, 2012, 2012! I am the first to recognize that in 2012, it is impossible to establish a responsibility, not more that of the Government than that of Parliament. But I'm not saying it: it's the report. From this point of view, it is extremely clear. It highlights an interesting point for all of us: in 2012, both the Government and Parliament went on a wrong track. Indeed, while the question of the compliance of the 3% dividend tax with the European Mother-daughter Directive was raised, as Charles de Courson and Gilles Carrez pointed out, the point of compliance raised by Parliament, as by some experts, was not the right one. Some – let's say few – have questioned the compatibility of the tax with Article 5 of the Mother-daughter Directive, which provides that profits distributed by a subsidiary company to its parent company are exempt from withholding tax. It turns out that this was not the problem raised by the tax: the real problem was that it was compatible with Article 4 of the Directive, with the breach of equality in relation to the taxation of distributions of dividends from subsidiaries, depending on whether they are established in a Member State of the European Union, in France or in a third State. In 2012, as the report makes very clear, no one – I say no one – raised the question of the compatibility of the dividend tax with Article 4 of the Mother-Daughter Directive: only a few, however few, raised the question of its conformity with Article 5 of this Directive, concerning withholding tax, which was ultimately not accepted as a ground for non-compliance either by the Commission or by the Court of Justice of the European Union or, of course, by the Constitutional Council. On the other hand, on this point too, the report is without appeal, it shows that the weakness is there – as of 26 February 2015 and the European Commission's notice to France, corrective measures should have been taken. From the moment France was notified by the Commission for non-compliance of the tax with the mother-daughter directive, the Government should have taken corrective measures. However, no such action was taken on or after that date. On 19 June 2015 – as I say for those who have had the temptation here to question the tax administration – the management of the tax legislation drafts an "alarmist" note – the term appears in the report, which I am just quoting. The note establishes that there is indeed a risk of litigation, that the outcome appears uncertain and that it would pose a significant risk to the State budget. However, according to the report, there was no reaction to this note. In addition, and I see it as an extraordinarily convincing element, from the end of 2015, the litigation opened by the companies concerned by the dividend tax exploded, since if until 1 January 2015, there were only 23, for the month of December 2015 alone, there were 429! Between the European Commission's notice of 26 February 2015, the management's note of 19 June 2015 and the explosion in the number of disputes at the end of 2015, there was sufficient evidence to ensure that the necessary political decisions were taken in order to counter the risks associated with this dividend tax: this was not the case. Gilles Carrez has raised a major problem: that of European case law, which must question us all. How will future litigation be dealt with? What difficulties of interpretation can the Directives raise with regard to tax differences between Member States? There is a real debate here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u128	This debate is major because it creates legal uncertainty. There is nothing worse about taxation than uncertainty. You have, in this debate, given a first answer to which I believe deeply and which joins the concerns of many Members, on many benches: tax harmonisation. It is clear that this harmonisation between Member States, in particular those belonging to the euro area, is a means of consolidating legal certainty in the face of the risk of litigation before the Court of Justice of the European Union. We will work in this direction: we will move forward in the convergence of corporate tax between France and Germany in the course of 2018. I once again had the opportunity to discuss this with our German partners in Berlin last week: this approach seems to me to be one of the answers – even if it is not the only one, because it is also up to Parliament to make proposals in this area – to this problem of legal uncertainty. It seems to me essential that, together, we draw the consequences of this case in order to strengthen the security of tax legislation for our compatriots. In the end, it is always the taxpayer who loses. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We must also draw all the consequences in order to strengthen the security of the decisions taken by the Government and by Parliament. Ultimately, it is about preserving what is essential for the effectiveness of tax legislation: its stability. I would point out that this dividend tax was a response to the difficulties arising from the taxation of UCITS. Over time, we accumulate bad decisions and mistakes: we create instability in tax matters, precisely where our compatriots need security and stability.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u129	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u130	I now call the clauses in the first part of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill in the text passed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u131	The Senate has deleted rule 1. I have before me four amendments, Nos 8, 18, 7, and 1, which are intended to restore it and which may be subject to a joint debate. Amendment No 1 is the subject of thirteen sub-amendments, two of which are identical. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u132	There is nothing worse in life than believing that there is only one solution to a problem. As for the Builders, we are opposed to the two new taxes that the Government wishes to create. On the other hand, we are proposing an alternative arrangement that aims to ensure that the State acknowledges its debt – which would in a way have the effect of crystallizing it – and that an interest rate, identical to that of the 10-year-old TSOs, is allocated to it, and that repayment takes place every tenth over ten years. That is our proposal. It would avoid any problems that the government text, again, raises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u133	Mr Gilles Carrez, in support of Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u134	This is something I mentioned earlier in my speech during the general discussion. And this amendment has already been discussed last week. It would be wiser to spread the exceptional contribution over two exercises. Véronique Louwagie has developed earlier – this is a subject she knows particularly well – the possibilities for a company to change its result over a single fiscal year, notably through the provisioning of provisions. Therefore, the amendment is to provide for a spread over the two fiscal years 2017 and 2018. On the other hand, as Charles de Courson explained earlier, in the 2017 fiscal year, we are facing a problem, not retroactivity, but so-called "small retroactivity". The solution is therefore to take into account the two years, 2017 and 2018, and, of course, to divide the increase amounts by two, from 15% to 7.5%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u135	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u136	The purpose of this amendment is to restore Article 1 deleted by the Senate: we do believe that the 318 largest companies, which account for 0.09% of the total French companies, must be charged. I recalled earlier, when defending the motion to reject beforehand, that in 2016 CAC 40 companies alone distributed some €55.7 billion in dividends. As far as we are concerned, we are not only in favour of the restoration of this Article 1e r but also of doubling the amount of this exceptional contribution. I said earlier: if for this, you have to go through a spread over two exercises, why not? Why not if it is estimated that this would make it easier for the companies concerned to pay and that, in the end, it is they who pay the EUR 10 billion, instead of halving their taxes and putting the other half of the nation's budget under control? I would point out that taking over from the nation's budget €5 billion of additional expenditure increases the level of debt by 0.2% of GDP. As I have already had the opportunity to say, it is easier to play with public debt when it comes to defending capital – and not any in this case, uninvested capital! and let us not forget the bailout of the banks in 2008 – only when it comes to meeting the needs of the population. In the latter case, we are opposed to the brass rule in terms of the public deficit, whereas here there is clearly no problem with increasing the public debt by 0.2%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u137	I have before me an amendment No 1, which is the subject of 13 sub-amendments Nos 25, 31, 22, 26, 23, 27, 24, 28, 19, 21, 20, 29 and 30, with the same sub-amendments Nos 23 and 27. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 1 on behalf of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u138	It simply aims to re-establish Article 1 in its amended wording voted last Monday by our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u139	We come to the sub-amendments tabled on Amendment No 1. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support sub-amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u140	It is an amendment of reflection. Why did the Government choose to set the threshold for the introduction of an exceptional corporate tax contribution at 1 billion? I would again like to draw his attention to the fact that the concept of turnover has nothing to do with profit, and that by providing for two taxes – a tax and a progressive supertax based on turnover – it takes an additional constitutional risk. I insist on it, minister: why did you hold that $1 billion threshold? You may tell us that it's for performance reasons, but it's not an answer. What's your real reason?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u141	Mr de Courson, I now propose that you support sub-amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u142	Minister, it seems that you are inflicting a double penalty on companies for which the return to profitability would be recent. Isn't that paradoxical? If, in order to carry out major investment projects, they did not distribute a dividend money between 2013 and 2017, and they decide to pay in 2017, not only will they not receive any repayments, but they will be taxed. Admit it, it's surprising to say the least! For our part, we propose to exempt companies that did not distribute anything between 2013 and 2017, which amounts to rewarding those that capitalize to ensure rapid growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u143	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u144	We propose, without changing the return on the exceptional contribution to corporate tax, that the contribution should cover not 2017 alone, but both 2017 and 2018. To do this, it is enough to double the tax rate this year and apply the same rate next year. The advantage would be twofold. A sudden tax would be avoided, just a few days before the appeal, on December 15, of the last advance of the corporate tax, and the temptation of tax optimisation would be reduced. Let us recognize this: taxed companies may choose certain accounting or tax options, which could change not only the tax bases in 2017 but all the tax revenues. By allocating the contribution over two years, one would avoid the temptation of optimisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u145	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support sub-amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u146	It seeks to improve, by introducing a reduction, the smoothing mechanism adopted in committee by voting on the amendment tabled by MM. Giraud and Carrez. I'm reporting a shell. You have, moreover, all corrected: in the last sentence, read "70 million" instead of "70 billion". In other words, we propose a reduction of 40 million for the first tax and a reduction of 70 million for the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u147	I have two identical sub-amendments, Nos. 23 and 27. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support sub-amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u148	Everyone knows the problem of mutual banking groups, such as Crédit Agricole and Crédit Mutuel. We met him five years ago. Indeed, one cannot speak of a mother-daughter relationship: in their case, it is the girls who own the mother! The central body is the property of banks, regional or interregional, as the case may be. Under the bill, they will contribute $1.2 billion out of $5.4 billion, and they will only be reimbursed, according to the figures they have given us, $120 or $170 million, since mutualist groups distribute very little. In other words, these groups will contribute 1 billion net: it is impossible! I would add that these are integrated groups only at their request, according to a very specific scheme, valid only for corporate tax purposes. We therefore propose to get them out of the scope of these two new taxes, as we did when we voted for the 3% dividend tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u149	I call Mr Gilles Carrez to support sub-amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u150	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u151	I call Mr Eric Woerth to support sub-amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u152	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to clarify the calculation of the turnover of the groups concerned, as some of them are taxed, which justifies certain corrective measures. The text mentions a consolidated turnover, including the internal relations of the groups. These relationships include the possibility for tax integrated groups to value turnover at market or non-market prices, taking into account relations within the same legal units, which obviously changes the concept of turnover. In order to avoid this difference in treatment, as well as a difference between French and foreign groups, I propose that you consider only turnover, without taking into account the turnover generated within the group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u153	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support sub-amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u154	It is a matter of solving a somewhat technical problem which concerns companies which have experienced deficits, therefore having recorded large and successive deficits. They could not distribute dividends on their earnings during the period 2013-2017 and therefore could not in any way pay the 3% dividend tax. If they return to a better fortune this year, they should not be doubly penalized: by paying a tax and not receiving a refund! To this end, they should be allowed to use the entire carry-forward deficit for the exceptional contribution and the additional contribution. The Government's text obliges us to consider only the 2017 profit before carry-overs. I would like to warn you once again against this writing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u155	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support sub-amendment No 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u156	It is purely editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u157	The Minister has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u158	It concerns the draft report proposed by Mr Carrez. In our view, the notion of "losers" and "winners" should be avoided, and further details should be provided on the respective effects of the elimination of the additional contribution in respect of the amounts distributed and the introduction of the exceptional contribution on corporate tax provided for in Article 1 I and II. The deletion of the notion of "losers" and "winners" would give the draft report more precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u159	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u160	This is an editorial sub-amendment that is included in the sub-amendment that has just been called. I therefore withdraw it for the benefit of the Government's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u161	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support sub-amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u162	It aims to break the system of non-profit social economy enterprises, which by definition do not pay dividends. Some have referred this matter to Members of Parliament, to all groups. By the way, I would point out that on all these issues, including the fate of mutual banks and social and solidarity economy companies, I had believed, minister, that you were open. However, to my astonishment, I have not seen any amendment or subamendment on these matters by the rapporteur-general or the Government. Would you definitely have given up amending the text on these issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u163	You have the floor, Mr de Courson, to support sub-amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u164	We propose that the article does not apply to non-profit social economy enterprises. Some believe that none of them have a turnover of more than 1 billion. That's not true, Minister! Cooperative and participatory societies – SCOP – are among the 320 companies initially covered by the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u165	What is the opinion of the committee on these various amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u166	Amendment No 8 proposes a debt recognition that can be immediately mobilised by companies by one tenth for ten years. However, this debt recognition would be immediately integrated into the national accounts, thus taking into account the deficit, in the maastrichtian sense of the term, as early as 2017. As the measure would undermine the objective we set ourselves on the balance and the fulfilment of our European commitments, I express an unfavorable opinion. For Amendment No 18 and Subamendment No 31, linking new contributions to the fact that companies have paid dividends or not presents a proven constitutional risk, recalled earlier by the Minister. Deficit companies before 2017 will be able to attribute these deficits to their profits under ordinary law. The adoption of the amendment or sub-amendment would remove all the enrichments adopted last Monday, such as the smoothing mechanism or the report requested by the Republican Group. Unfavorable opinion. Amendment No 7 envisages doubling the planned contribution rate. More than half of the profits would thus be taxed and the rate never seen would be 54.43 per cent, which is not desirable. The objective of the contribution is to meet European commitments and to exit the excessive deficit procedure. The amendment goes far beyond this, which is not necessary and risks weakening large companies. Unfavorable opinion. I would remind you that Amendment No 1 was adopted by the committee. Subamendment 22 tends to divide the tax rate by two, which undermines the contribution's return target in 2017 and thus the fulfilment of our country's European commitments. Unfavorable opinion. The identical sub-amendments Nos 23 and 27, which concern mutualist groups, are, I repeat, inconsistent with the tax integration of these groups. In these, only the central body is accountable to the IS. The sub-amendments would make girls' societies bear contributions based on taxes that they do not pay. In addition, they would create a breach of equality vis-à-vis other tax-integrated groups, which would pose a high risk of unconstitutionality. Unfavorable opinion. President Woerth's sub-amendment No 24 also risks creating a breach of equality vis-à-vis other groups that carry out transactions with related companies without being taxed. In addition, it could reduce tax returns. Fiscally integrated groups will also benefit from neutralisation of intra-group transactions for the calculation of taxable results. Therefore, they will not be disadvantaged. I am in favour of the Government's sub-amendment No 21, which incorporates the clarifications made by my sub-amendment No 20, which I have withdrawn. Sub-amendment No 25 seeks to create a new contribution from EUR 300 million in turnover. It therefore includes 300 ETIs – mid-size companies – in addition, which I do not think is appropriate. Sub-amendment No 30 exempts non-profit enterprises, which are already, in principle, exempt from IS. Few, moreover, have a turnover of EUR 1 billion. Mr de Courson's sub-amendment No 26 seeks to introduce two reductions, one of EUR 40 million and the other of '70 billion' – but I assume, my dear colleague, that this is a shell.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u167	Yeah, I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u168	Forgive me, I had not heard you, lost that I was in reading the sub-amendments... This sub-amendment would compromise the return of the contribution, even with only 70 "millions", as well as the smoothing mechanism adopted at first reading. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. Sub-amendment No 28 derogates from the rules governing the imputation of deficits; In addition to compromising performance, it would also lead to a breach of equality with other companies. Finally, Subamendment No 29 is unconstitutional since it binds new contributions and the dividend tax. Unfavorable opinion. [[Smile]] That's it: I don't think I've forgotten any!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u170	[[Smile]] In order to simplify this complex debate, I shall confine myself to saying that the Government has the same opinion as the Commission... Just one comment about mutual banks: we spent the whole weekend looking for a solution. The Government is fully aware of the burden it places on them, although, I would remind you, their own structure excludes them from the dividend tax. All the solutions proposed, including sub-amendments 23 and 27, expose us to censorship by the Constitutional Council for breach of equality in the face of taxation. I will not take this risk, and that is the sole reason for the Government's unfavorable opinion. We have to correct the five-year impact of a dividend tax on which, I repeat, all the warnings had been issued as early as 2015. We pay very much for this; and when I say "we", I mean the French taxpayer. I have explained this to the mutual banks, as I am doing in front of the national representation this afternoon, that it would not be responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u171	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u172	I will make two observations. In the case of mutual banks, the girls hold the mother. In these circumstances, it is a matter of taking advantage of a specific system provided for in the General Tax Code which, in our view, would avoid the tax integration regime, which requires a consolidated assessment of all turnover. With the sub-amendment we are proposing, turnover would thus be appreciated subsidiary by subsidiary, which in no way exempts the target groups from the payment of the exceptional contribution: this would only alleviate their bill, which would be reduced from more than EUR 1 billion to about 600 million. On the other hand, the report that you accepted last week, Mr.Minister, was intended, in my mind, as I think in my colleagues', to determine which of the 320 companies subject to the exceptional contribution are also entitled to a refund for the elimination of the dividend tax. In order to preserve tax secrecy, we propose a decile ranking. This would make it possible to compare the two orders of magnitude. I understand, minister, your concern to avoid any risk, but that is the information we must have! With the Government's sub-amendment, we will have information per decile on the new contribution on the one hand, and on the other on the repayments – which concern 5000 companies – these two aspects are totally disjointed. In the end, therefore, the information will be reduced to very little. Since we are talking about a simple report, we should be able to compare, in my view, the respective effects of the abolition of one measure and the creation of another.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u173	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u174	I want to go back to my sub-amendment No 24. This concerns the calculation not of the tax, but of the turnover – because, since you set a threshold of 1 billion euros, you have to take a good look at it. It is therefore this calculation that needs to be harmonized: it cannot be understood that it is different for each other under different considerations. The Government wants to target large companies; However, for them, the reference is the external turnover, not that of one of the groups they hold. Moreover, the General Tax Code allows for a differentiated calculation for the 95 % tax-integrated groups, and thus a differentiated valuation of the benefits provided within each group. The question asked is, in sum, that of the definition of consolidated turnover itself. In my view, it can only be external turnover, because it is it that gives the measure of the size and power of a group. My sub-amendment deals specifically with this point. Far from introducing differential treatment, it would allow harmonisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u175	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u176	The subamendment Carrez and mine exonerate the central body, not the banks that hold it. According to the figures provided to us, the exemption would amount to EUR 1.2 billion for the central body, but local institutions would pay some EUR 600 million. As the chairman of the committee pointed out, there is therefore no exemption for regional establishments. On the other hand, the rapporteur-general rejects the counter-proposal of the Constructives: it would be impossible, in his view, because it represents an expenditure of EUR 10 billion. He is quite right, but, as I tried to say to the Government – which did not answer me specifically on this point – we have a different interpretation of point 20.189 of the European System of National and Regional Accounts. According to the Government, the last sentence of this article allows for a two-year spread, which is not at all the case. And according to the estimate you gave us last week, minister, we are not at all 5 billion, but already 6.5, or even 7 billion. Finally, you do not provide any response with regard to companies in the social and solidarity economy. There are not many of them involved, you say, the rapporteur-general. You will therefore go and explain to the SCOPs whose turnover exceeds one billion, because there are several, that they will be taxed! This issue cannot be dealt with so lightly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u177	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u178	I am quite sensitive to the sub-amendment on SCOPs, which did not "affect" – the term bothers me, because I was in favour of the measure – the dividend tax. It is a bit complicated to ask them to contribute today. As far as the argument of a break in equality is concerned, Minister, as I understand it, your logic is to set a threshold of EUR 1 billion in turnover and another EUR 3 billion. This implies a break in de facto equality, since it is intended to tax companies that paid dividends above these thresholds, but not companies that paid dividends below those thresholds. Anyway, there's a break in equality, whatever we do. You say you want to avoid a second break in equality between companies that have paid dividends and those that have not done so for structural reasons. This argument, in my view, is hardly on the way. It is not enough to push back the sub-amendments concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u179	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u180	Our discussion is becoming global again, and I would not like us to leave this House without clearly establishing the responsibilities on the blunder we are talking about. It should not be suggested that the responsibility for this lies with Mr Hollande or that those responsible have not been identified. There is a role that I did not expect you to play, minister: that of a lawyer of the previous majority. As you heard, Mr. Macron was never in the right place and cannot be held responsible for anything. As one of my colleagues recalled earlier, he was, however, in 2012 an economic adviser to the President of the Republic, before becoming Minister of Economy! So if I understood correctly, he was never in the room where the decision was made, always in the room next door, so he didn't know. I believe, for my part, that it was a little bit, whether it was sub-budgeting – which my colleagues had sufficiently denounced during the previous legislature – or the serious consequences of this error, which was the dividend tax. Macron did not take this into account in his project, and the majority today pretended to fall naked. Of two things one: either it enters into a lot of bad faith in your argumentation, or our president is very light on budgetary issues, in which case we have a lot of worries to worry about the future of the public accounts of France. It must be said, in any case, that it is 5 billion unfair euros – or even 6 or 7 billion, as Mr de Courson has just suggested – that will weigh on the activity of private companies, and also, we must be aware, on the interest that might be enjoyed by some of their employees. That's a shame. Some of the provisions under discussion would allow for a smoothing of the painful effort imposed on these companies. It's the least we can do for them, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u182	Madam President! I would like to speak on Mr Carrez's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u183	The discussion has already taken place, Mr. de Courson, and you have spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u184	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 2 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u185	The aim of this amendment is to restore the rule of balance of resources and burdens in the version adopted by the Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u186	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the 2017 amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u187	The second part of the 2017 amending finance bill was voted in accordance with the Senate. We have completed our review of the sections of the Financial Amendment Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u188	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u189	The purpose of this amendment is to change the title of the text, which is anything but an amending finance bill. He therefore proposes to call it "a bill designed to partially remedy the financial implications of the decision of the Constitutional Council of 6 October 2017".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u190	It's more explicit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u191	A little long, but very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u192	This is indeed the true nature of this text! This is in no way a draft amending finance law, since the Government does not adjust revenue or expenditure in relation to the information available to it on the date of submission of the text. It was enough for you, Minister, to draft such a text, with a single article designed to create two taxes – because it is possible, as everyone knows, to create tax taxes outside of initial or amending finance bills. You would have avoided all the constitutional procedural problems you will encounter. The opposition members rely on the wisdom of the Constitutional Council, Mr.Minister, but it is important that you take action on this essential amendment, to reveal to us the true nature of the text we are discussing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u194	First of all, I am grateful, Mr de Courson, for correcting the horrific lack of grammar in the first version of this amendment. Before the Minister of National Education who has just joined us, proposing to "compensate with" would not have done very well. But while welcoming its grammatical correction, I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, since this is indeed a draft law of amending finance, which includes an adjustment of the budgetary balance for 2017, with the appropriation of €4.4 billion for 2017 and the ratification of decrees in advance, in accordance with the Organic Law on Finance Laws. It is therefore neither necessary nor desirable to change the name of this bill, even without a lack of grammar.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u196	Unfavorable opinion. I salute Charles de Courson's creativity, as it is never easy to find a title to a book, text or bill. Being sobriety in this matter, I am satisfied with the current title, while welcoming the creativity, ingenuity and quality of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u197	A little poetry, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u198	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u199	Not only is Mr. de Courson creative, but he also pursues a real logic. This could simply have been called "a bill to replace the 3% additional tax on dividends." The Government suggests that this is a draft law on amending finance while it will present the real PLFR the day after tomorrow to the Finance Committee. Are you going to have to give them numbers, Minister? First, second, next, third? It is not serious: there is, as we can see, a real rush in the implementation of this surtax on French companies. The Minister will inform the Finance Committee of the 320 French companies which will be heavily penalized. We already have a first idea: mutual banks will be the first to be involved, while they do not distribute dividends. But beyond that, I would like to know whether we will cross the list of losing companies today with that of structures which are largely surplus because of the repayment made. It would be interesting for Members to receive tax information as accurately as possible. As I am not sure that we will get it, I would have liked to change the title, so as not to suggest that this text is anchored in a correction of a finance law, but rather in a last-minute adjustment by the Government to incorporate a new tax aimed at meeting certain criteria related to the deficit at European level, while it exempts itself from complying with others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u200	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u201	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Presenting two PLFRs is not really an originality: there were four in 2011 and three in 2012. Under various majorities, we have seen multiple PLFRs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u203	You're going to beat the record!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u204	It is the speed with which you adopt them that shockes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u205	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u206	The Government's interesting innovation is the cavalcade: the first PLFR has not yet been published that we have already attacked the second! This astonishing speed may also provide one of the possible reasons for unconstitutionality. Finally, it would be interesting, after the opinion of our rapporteur-general, to receive the opinion of the Minister for National Education, who has the honour of joining us, on the grammatical problem of the title of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u207	I put to the vote the whole of the 2017 amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u208	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u209	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u210	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u211	We are dealing with the examination of credits for school education (No 273, Annex 24; No 274, Volume II). The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u212	Madam President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, the special rapporteurs and draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, the school education budget presented to you today reflects the priority given to education by the President of the Republic and the Government. It is a budget that is able to restore confidence between the French and their school. This theme of the school of trust is, as you know, the one I have chosen to crystallize all the subjects we have to deal with. To do this, it takes several things. In particular, more needs to be given to those who need more. There is also a need for exemplary, demanding and rigorous learning. For the first time, the school education budget raised by the Ministry of National Education will exceed the EUR 50 billion threshold, to reach EUR 50.1 billion, excluding State pension contributions, an increase of EUR 1.3 billion over 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u213	This approach is quite quantitative!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u214	The qualitative approach will follow. This amount allows for the profound transformation of the educational system that the French demand, and gives us the means to fulfil our objectives. Indeed, the additional means are nothing if they are not articulated with clear and qualitative objectives, and that is what we are doing. This begins with the priority given to primary school and the mastery of basic knowledge by all students: reading, writing, counting, respecting others. For nothing solid or lasting can be done without the mastery of basic knowledge by all students. This is why primary school is the first of my priorities, which translates into educational voluntarism, fiscal voluntarism and aid to the most fragile. Attacking school difficulty at the root is a necessity if one wants to fight against the weight of determinisms. This is obviously the meaning of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in priority education, which, after 2500 classes this year, will concern 6000 classes at the start of the 2018 school year. We give ourselves the means of this ambition for primary education, with an increase of almost 3,900 positions before pupils in the first degree during the next school year, and with the funding in 2018 of the start of the rise in charge of the presidential commitment to raise the remuneration of staff in priority education network reinforced by 3000 euros per year. This latter measure is essential to the attractiveness and stabilization of teams in these difficult territories. We also want to support students towards college success. To this end, we have given all the necessary changes to the reform of the college. We have also already taken new measures, including the "Duties Done" programme, which has been implemented since the beginning of this week and is due to be deployed throughout next year, thanks to an overall envelope of €220 million in 2018. Through "Devoirs faits", it is also a free school helper that becomes accessible to all students and college students in France. We want to support the most fragile students – because I am thinking of school fragility; This is also the subject of successful internships during the holidays, which will be more than doubled next year, from EUR 15 million to EUR 35 million. But it is also the social fragility that is targeted, with the upgrading of 25% of college scholarships, awarded on social criteria: it is effective since the beginning of 2017 and financed to the tune of 43 million euros in 2018. We still want to aim at the fragility of disability, with 50,000 people in contract aid this year, 11,200 contracts for accompanying students with disabilities – AESH – and 4,500 new AESH. Finally, it is the fragility of the French language that we want to remedy. The measures we are taking in this area are not only quantitative, but also qualitative. I am thinking about what we will do for allophone students and everything we do for the French language at the moment. National education is therefore the first state budget, and we can be proud of it collectively. We can also be proud of the articulation of these means with purposes, as I said earlier: our goal is to significantly improve the quality of our system. This will be achieved through positive developments in primary school, in particular the acquisition of the French language, but also through all the measures that we will take concerning mathematics, following the reports that I have requested. This will also involve the evolution of the college and the high school – from the general high school and the technological high school as well as the vocational high school. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For these reasons, I thank you in advance for adopting the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u215	Mrs Osson, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u216	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, draftspersons for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to be, together with Mrs Aina Kuric, special rapporteur for the school education budget for 2018, this budget so important for the 12 million pupils and the 880,000 teachers in our country, so important for each of us, as a pupil's parent, as a citizen. As you said, Minister, the resources allocated to the programmes of the "School Education" mission under the Ministry of National Education are, for the first time, crossing the threshold of 70 billion euros: they amount to 70,148 billion in commitment authorisations and 70,078 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 2% compared to 2017. The 2018 appropriations for agricultural technical education amount to 1.452 billion. The credits of the School Education Mission thus show a 2.6% increase over 2017. These developments, which we can all welcome, show us that the national education policy, whose budget remains the first of the nation, is a priority for the President of the Republic and the Government. The Government's work is driven by three concerns: creating a climate of trust in the school, demonstrating real ambitions, and acting with pragmatism. The twinning of CP classes in the priority education area, which is probably the flagship measure of this budget and the latest step forward in the Government's ongoing ambitious action in favour of primary education, is emblematic of this new direction. This measure, which has taken place since the beginning of 2017, will apply by 2019 to all classes of CP and EC1 in the priority education areas. In the college, the "Duties made" scheme, which has been in operation for the past few days, based on volunteerism and freedom, must involve many actors and be an important factor in reducing inequalities. As far as school rhythms are concerned, Mr Minister, you have decided to trust the actors in the field with regard to the organisation of the school week, giving the possibility to the municipalities who wish to do so to opt for the return to the four-day week. A proactive policy is also being pursued in the field of guidance throughout the second level, in order to involve young people fully in the definition of their personal and professional project. The budget for 2018 continues the efforts made under the previous quinquennium in the area of education and values the continuing training of teachers, in particular allowing them to take ownership of the results of the research. Finally, this budget reflects – and I personally attach great importance to it – a special attention to the care of children with disabilities. However, you noted, minister, that at the end of September, about 3500 children were still waiting for appropriate assistance. It is true that, as our report makes the analysis, the challenges to our school education policy are still numerous: the weight of social determinisms in the student's academic success remains a French particularity, regularly highlighted by international analyses. The priority education policy that you pursue, Minister, may be the antidote, provided that you remain ambitious and are regularly assessed and adapted to demographic and social developments. Absenteeism and school looting are another cause for concern and a "hard point" of school education in France. Many tools are used to combat the phenomenon of dropping out; Our report provides an inventory of them. We must continue a relentless struggle, through all kinds of actions – information, remotivation, remobilization – against this phenomenon, which continues to cause considerable human waste. In this regard, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the removal of administrative aids for school principals in the first degree, which are valuable in raising school attendance records. Policy guidance remains insufficiently developed. It must make every effort to make students aware of the existing trades and fields and to enable them to define their own path, in order to facilitate their future vocational integration. Another major challenge is the promotion of vocational education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u217	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u218	... which continues to attract many young people. We note with satisfaction that, at the beginning of 2017, 500 new training courses were created, of which more than one in five were alternating or taking the form of a school course interspersed with periods in business. Vocational education must increasingly be seen as a way of success for all. At the meeting of the enlarged committee, you recalled, Minister, the three principles that must guide our education policy: the Republic, excellence and benevolence. It is the most reliable tools that can guide our thinking and action. I will conclude my statement by asking the Government to continue its efforts in three areas: the care of all children with disabilities; the continued schooling of children under three years of age, which has been the norm in recent years; the promotion of vocational education, which is also a way of excellence. Finally, we would like to stress the need to continue updating the priority education maps and their consistency with that of the neighbourhoods. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The Finance Committee has adopted the credits of the School Education Mission for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u219	May I remind you that the speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u220	We want six minutes, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u221	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u222	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, special rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, "in welcoming you [...], France demonstrates that it is not a blood community, but a community of ideals, [...] values", declared the President of the Republic last July 27 in his speech in Orléans. This republican promise to open our community to those who no longer have it is at the height of our country's tradition of welcoming and humanism. It is in school, in particular, that we need to make it live, by making room for these children coming from elsewhere, by giving them support and comfort, by giving them the opportunity to structure themselves and project themselves into a future, a culture, a language, and finally by allowing them access to the school community and, through it, to the national community. That is what the school of the Republic has always done, and that is what it continues to do today. For all children between the ages of 6 and 16 years, regardless of their nationality, if they reside in the national territory, must be enrolled in accordance with the law. As part of the section on the schooling of migrant children in the report that Bertrand Sorre and I prepared, last week I visited a reception class at Thomas Mann College in the 13th arrondissement of Paris. I have seen the happiness, envy and pride these children have in learning our language. I have also seen the spirit of benevolence that prevails in this class: the teacher's benevolence, remarkable, towards his students; mutual benevolence of these pupils, who help each other and translate words not included into each other; benevolence of the oldest, who have left the class, towards the "new", whom they come back to support to recreation. Here I would like to pay tribute to the teachers, school leaders, CASNAV trainers – the academic centre for the schooling of newly arrived allophone children and children from travelling families and travellers – but also to the parents of pupils and associations whose attention, dedication and professionalism allow these children to be educated in good conditions. I stress this aspect, because it seemed to us that the human factor, the "master effect" and the presence of the entourage played a particularly important role in this matter. More generally, our findings at the end of our work are as follows: the reception and schooling system for allophone pupils, mainly within the framework of CASNAVs and the teaching units for allophone pupils arriving – UPE2A – is well established and works rather well; However, in the face of the unprecedented migration crisis in our country, the risk of embolism in the system is high. Indeed, the current device appears too rigid and unreactive in the face of tension situations. In primary school, the reluctance of some mayors, though illegal, can block access to school for these children. In high school, posting times in institutions are often too long – up to five months. In the case of unaccompanied foreign minors, whose numbers are likely to increase in the coming years, the difficulties encountered by child welfare in the processing of applications deprive many of them of education to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u223	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u224	Weaknesses also exist in the national management of policies for the reception and schooling of these pupils. Each academy tends to operate in a vacuum, which has the advantage of favouring solutions adapted to local particularities, but does not allow good practices to emerge at national level. On the other hand, the department does not seem to have a clear vision of the system as a whole: it was unable to answer some of the questions we asked about, for example, the precise number of UPE2As present in the territory or the exact amounts devoted to them. Moreover, in many cases the families of migrants are spread over the territory without the national education authorities being sufficiently informed upstream: there is a form of unpreparation on the ground. Finally, a 2015 report entitled "Immigrant Students and School: Moving Towards Integration" should alert us to our ability to integrate these students into our school system. It notes that the results of the PISA evaluations of newly arrived students in France are significantly lower than those obtained by the same audiences in our neighbours and that, with regard to the feeling of happiness and belonging to the school they experience, France is the latest in OECD countries. We therefore have significant room for manoeuvre to improve the system, by installing more flexible and responsive reception structures to meet current needs: you will find some very precise examples in our report. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As regards national pilotage this time, we welcome, Mr Minister, the fact that you have received our request, in the enlarged committee, to order a joint report of the two general inspections on the subject. Follow-up of cohorts to measure the quality of the integration of these students after their transition to UPE2A could also be entrusted to the direction of evaluation, foresight and performance. Given your commitment to the success of all students, including the most fragile, we know, Minister, that you will be able to take advantage of these few suggestions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u225	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Testé, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u226	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, education is a priority of the President of the Republic and of his government: a priority that the minister translates into reality such as the construction of a school of trust. The objective remains to tackle the difficulties at the root, in order to ensure maximum success in primary school with regard to what is called "reading, writing, counting". I must tell you, Minister, that I am particularly proud to defend this budget: first of all because I was a teacher from 1993 and then a school principal from 2001 to 2017 and we did not always have the satisfaction of seeing such a budget; Secondly, because this budget will for the first time exceed EUR 50 billion, which does reflect the presidential and the Government's commitment, with primary school as the first priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u227	It's quantitative, not qualitative!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u228	Among the major measures provided for in this budget is the duplication of the classes of CP, carried out in the REP + zone at the beginning of 2017 and which will be continued in 2018 by the classes of CP in the REP zone and those of CE1 in the REP + zone. By the start of 2018, more than 5,600 classes will be split. This represents nearly 130,000 of the most fragile students. In addition, 3,881 new posts will cover these requirements. This flagship measure was unanimously welcomed by the actors directly involved, such as in Clichy-sous-Bois, in my constituency, where the whole territory is classified as a priority area. Split classes or classes in co-intervention with two teachers allow to stick as closely as possible to the difficulties of the pupils. One can no longer accept that 20% of them leave primary school without being able to read, write or count correctly – difficulties that are concentrated mainly in disadvantaged environments. In addition, €35 million will be spent on successful internships for students in CM2 who need to strengthen their basics for the college. The budget has been doubled for these well-named internships, because they give a boost to the most fragile students. At the college, the continuation of the "Devoirs faits" scheme will allow students to accompany in their personal work, relying on voluntary teachers and an increased number of civic services. Of the additional 20,000 planned in the 2018 PLF, 10,000 will be dedicated to it. This device, which has just started in all colleges, is aimed at all college students. It is completely free and its aim is to reach and encourage a third of the students. The commitment is equally determined with regard to students with disabilities. The school of trust is also an inclusive school. The 2018 budget reflects the Government's commitment to support all students with disabilities with well-trained and stable staff for greater efficiency. To this end, the plan for the "DCIsation" of accompanying students with disabilities is a very good thing. In particular, it is planned in 2018 to mobilise 10900 new jobs from AESH. The creation of 100 positions in ULIS classes – localised units for school inclusion – also complements this triptych to help the most fragile and struggling. Education remains a shared responsibility and bringing school and family together must remain a key to student success with a constant search for family involvement. The "parents' briefcase" scheme helps to improve the essential dialogue between parents and schools: EUR 1 million is devoted to this. Another lever of success is the training of teachers. Wounded and then abandoned between 2007 and 2012, then restored, it remains perfectable and a site to improve during this quinquennium. In accordance with the Presidential commitment, each teacher will be able to benefit from three days of in-service training adapted to the needs encountered in the classroom. As such, an additional €25 million has been provided for in the 2018 budget. The attractiveness of posts and the stability of priority education network teams are essential. The gradual deployment of a bonus of 3000 euros for the staff assigned to it should allow this stability and encourage experienced teachers to stay there. The 2018 budget does not forget the municipalities either. In fact, the municipalities maintaining an organisation of school time over four and a half days will continue to benefit from the support fund for the development of extracurricular activities, amounting to €237 million. With EUR 50.6 billion, the national education budget will indeed remain the nation's first budget. It thus meets the campaign commitments of the President of the Republic and the many expectations of teachers, parents of pupils and pupils. Finally, the school of trust is also that of success, the success of all. This is why, if the funding for the "School Education" mission increases by 1.3 billion in 2018, the increase will continue to reach 2.6 billion by 2020, reflecting in fact that education is one of the top priorities of this quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Like the Government, we, the current deputies of the Republic, consider that education is not an expense but an investment in the future. We will therefore enthusiastically vote on this very good budget proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u229	Mr Frédéric Reiss, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u230	The budget of the School Education Mission is the largest government budget, with staff costs accounting for 90 per cent of the 2018 appropriation. That is, the importance of the human resources deployed to enable each student to benefit from quality education and to find his or her place in society. Mr Minister, in the Republican Group, we appreciate the tone, pace and progress in relation to the reforms that we denounced in the previous quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u231	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u232	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I can only share the objective of Program 214 to improve the quality of human resources management. The relaxation of the reform of school rhythms, which had upset the lives of families – and with what result? – is a good thing; the same is true of the reform of the college or of the changes in the programmes. Latin, Greek, and balance classes regain the place they should never have lost. Minister, you have terminated the predicate and we are counting on you to cut short on inclusive writing or changing grammar rules by any pressure group. Mastery of basic knowledge in primary school is essential. Therefore, I will not criticize the efforts made to learn reading in CP-CE1 in REP or REP+. For the time being, however, there are no plans for the rural areas that are lagging behind, where learning to read is as important as in the priority neighbourhoods. There should not be a divide between France's cities and France's countryside, where some town halls face painful class closures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u233	And massive!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u234	Of course, you are fighting against school inequalities with the "Duties made" scheme, which resembles the personalized programs of academic success – PPRE – of the Fillon law, or by deploying additional resources for students with disabilities. Hasn't the time come to give schools more autonomy? The success of agricultural education should encourage us to go in this direction in colleges and lycées, but also in primary schools and intercommunal educational groups, where directors still have no real status. After the enlarged committee, let me stress the importance of initial and in-service training for teachers and the attractiveness of their profession. I am in favour of a salary increase and career plans, in return for a redefinition of working time, divided between teaching in the classroom, attendance in the institution and continuing training. Training is a cornerstone in building a teaching career. The report for an opinion on the schooling of allophone children is a good illustration of this. As shown in the October 2016 report of the fact-finding mission on teacher training, "Teacher, a profession that is learned throughout life" – of which I was a member, as well as the draftsman for opinion – continuing education is now unfortunately reduced to grief. It is vital to develop it in the light of the necessary adaptations to the digital society, the management of school violence or the reception of specific audiences. The latest report by the Court of Auditors is also in line with the developments I have just mentioned: to strengthen the role of principals and principals in organising their institutions, adapting them to the profiles of the pupils they receive, to annuitate services, to make better use of overtime, to create a better pool of replacements or to consolidate the school of the foundation, which would allow exchanges between first and second degree teachers. Finally, Minister, I will have two questions. You said that you used complementary lists, "with discernment", especially in the academies in tension. But what is the point of having long supplementary lists for the competitions for the recruitment of teachers in schools, considering that the persons included in them do not have the required level and if the institution makes priority use of contract workers? Finally, the Minister of Higher Education, by presenting the student plan in committee last week, announced the plan to appoint two senior teachers at the senior level. In fact, 94% of high school students want personalized support for better orientation, in order to better face the future post-bac assignment platform. What will be the cost of this measure and how will it be implemented? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There is undoubtedly a change of course in the educational policy of this government. Our group will defend three amendments: one concerning the human resources management information system – HRMIS – whose cost has exploded and whose effectiveness remains to be demonstrated; Another on subsidies to private agricultural schools; and the last on disparities in school textbook equipment. We will abstain from this budget and follow closely the announced reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u235	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Garcia, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u236	Education is the family that gives it, education is the state that owes it, Victor Hugo taught us. Your action, Minister, has already marked this beginning of mandate and the first steps of the Government. The actions undertaken are already numerous and emblematic. Your personality is installed among the French: you are known and recognized, which gives you confidence and authority to carry out the reforms expected by the school world. The first decisions, as soon as you arrived, marked a break with previous policies, and this break is special since it consists precisely of a non-rupture. In fact, you wanted from the outset to convey the message that in the field of education, in the current context, we must seek the most consensual decisions possible in order to create a real momentum. It is a fair path, for if it is indeed a subject on which the whole nation must come together and meet again, it is the education of our children. Today we are discussing the credits and actions that your department is taking. The significant increase in the budget, as committed by the President of the Republic during his campaign, should be noted. This augurs well, and we would like to greet him. It is pleased to see that your ministry's budget remains the first in the state. For the past six months, you have launched several initiatives that we support and that meet many of the essential expectations of national education. Social justice is expressed with the doubling of CP classes in REP+ to offer the best conditions for learning to the youngest children as soon as they enter elementary school. We know that this period of schooling is paramount, and it is absolutely necessary to extend the measure gradually to all classes of CP. We will accompany you with strength and vigour, for this measure will be a great achievement for our nation. The "Duties Done" scheme for colleges provides homework support within the school with follow-up by teachers and associations. The relaxation of school rhythms will give schools more autonomy to adopt the organization that suits them best. Minister, we also welcome the efforts made with the Ministry of Culture to revive artistic and cultural education. Many other projects are announced, particularly in secondary schools, with the reform of the baccalaureate or the orientation towards the superior, and it seems to us important that national representation be closely associated with this work. It also seems to us necessary, as was the subject of our request in the enlarged committee, that the Government, like Parliament, and particularly the presidential majority, should be able to work towards the establishment of an in-depth evaluation, as soon as laws are enacted, with specific objectives based on clear technical and temporal indicators. The aim is obviously not to increase the number of devices, but to analyse, to compare, in short, to acquire a fine knowledge allowing regular adjustments. This is a new way of doing things that is not rooted in our practices, but should, in our view, be used more. We also note the significant increase in funding under the 230 "Student Life" program, which addresses both school health and school inclusion issues for students with disabilities. This is a salutary effort to catch up with our institutions. The sustainability of accompanying students with disabilities as well as health personnel is necessary to ensure quality follow-up. Similarly, since you have confirmed it to us in the enlarged committee, we are following you in the creation of new ULIS. Minister, there are many emergencies in education, and we are aware of them. The budget you are presenting is an important step in this direction. In the years ahead, more needs to be done for the teaching world. In order to improve its working conditions, we must offer it more freedom and flexibility, as well as the possibility of training more regularly. Finally, you want to open up teaching to the knowledge that today's science and discoveries bring us. Both digital and neuroscience provide us with useful elements for understanding the functioning of the brain in children, especially the youngest. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] To conclude and, if I dare say, close the loop, I will quote Victor Hugo again, this time with the paronomasis of the conjures of Hernani who were in darkness and aspired to light, and whose password was "ad augusta per angusta" – towards the peaks by narrow paths. Well, on these paths to the heights of student support for success, be sure, Minister, that the members of the MODEM Group will be at your side and will therefore vote the credits for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u237	Philippe Dunoyer, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u238	The Constructive Group supports an ambitious and proactive education policy. We are in favour of an open, egalitarian and inclusive school, the aim of which must be to prepare all our children for entry into higher education and adult life. We believe in the emancipatory dimension of the school – the first place to learn about the difference, the living together and the values of the Republic. It plays a key role in the formation of tomorrow's citizens, open to the world and respectful of others. The school we call for is also that of merit. For too long, we have given up this essential dimension of the Republican pact. For the past 15 years, we have been declining in the ranking of inequalities in schools and are among the OECD countries in which the correlation between academic performance and socio-economic background is greatest. In this way, we have allowed a two-tiered school, in which attendance and work do not compensate for social and territorial inequalities. Therefore, we have weakened the original promise of the Republican school and its possibilities for social ascent. We therefore look forward to the new government's commitment to a school of trust and success, and to giving priority, in the first degree, to the acquisition of basic knowledge – reading, writing and counting – while recalling that the cardinal goal remains to lead 100% of our children to success in the first degree. We welcome this pragmatic approach, while on average 20 per cent of students in an age group today leave primary school without mastering these fundamentals, which obviously seriously compromises their academic success and their future professional integration. It is therefore right, as much as the stakes it covers are essential, that the mission "School education" is the most important mission of the State, with almost 51 billion euros committed in the draft finance law for 2018. We can only welcome the increase in the Mission's appropriations by almost €1.3 billion in 2018 and €2.6 billion by 2020. Personally, I would like to thank you for your vigilance in preserving the funds dedicated to the financial compensation due to New Caledonia following the recent transfer of competence in this area; As you know, Minister, more than EUR 420 million is needed to meet the needs of this territory at the end of the world. The policy of strengthening teacher training and the fight against all forms of school inequality, particularly those concerning pupils with disabilities, are also positive signals, which we welcome. We have been sensitive to your comments in committee on the situation of school assistants, the significant reinforcement of their staff and their professionalization. We agree with the launching of inter-ministerial action to secure and sustain the status of these companions. We'll pay attention to it. My question concerns the reform of the high school and the reform of the baccalaureate you announced. A mission was thus entrusted to Pierre Mathiot, the former director of the IEP in Lille, who today started a series of hearings of all stakeholders. The aim of this reform is to create a "less thicker, more concentrated" baccalaureate by strengthening continuous control within schools and reducing the number of tests leading to a common national examination. Can you tell us more about the objectives of this reform and particularly about the new version of the baccalaureate? [[Applause on the benches of the LC and REM groups]] We agree with the spirit of this reform and in particular with the desire to revalue this review, which must regain its relevance. However, even though the Government is showing greater voluntarism in the construction of a richer and more appropriate orientation path, we are concerned that this reform will lead to a strengthening of inequalities between schools. Could you, minister, reassure us on this point? Beyond this question, the Constructive Group will vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u239	Mrs Pau Langevin has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u240	The 2018 Finance Bill proposes to us, for the "School Education" mission, a budget that remains the most important in the nation, and that is a good thing. From what we understand, this budget is built according to the dominant pattern of an effective school that wants every student, at the end of primary school, to be able to read, write and count. We are, of course, all in favour of this objective, but the question is how to ensure that it is achieved. Is an effective school always a fair school? Is it a key problem to make the best people succeed better – we do it quite well in this country – or to help bridge the inequalities that the French education system champions? The orientation of reviving the classes of Latinists or Hellenists or of the classes of balance sheets for a few rather than learning a second language sooner challenges us. Is school efficiency always a guarantee of equity? Is the school effective for the well-being and development of pupils' autonomy? The "100% success plan at CP", with the choice of CPs split in the PN+, does not give rise to any opposition because it is part of a reasoned choice for students and disadvantaged sectors. However, Minister, you, as an expert, forget that in the history of national education, there have already been classes for twelve students: these "improvement classes", with specialized teachers for children in difficulty, have shown that the reduction in numbers is not in itself a sufficient response to effectively address the difficulties of students, and that the methods and choice of teachers are also important. We must therefore maintain the training that some of your predecessors had abolished. In order to divide classes by two, there must also be a sufficient number of premises and staff to deal with the pupils. What we fear is that in order to split the classes, the system "more masters than classes" is dried up, put in place previously and endorsed by the teams. On the other hand, leaving the choice of keeping the four-and-a-half-day week or returning to the four days does not seem to us to be in the interests of the children. All the studies we have consulted on this subject point to the fact that the concentration of four-day learning is harmful for children, especially for the most disadvantaged of them – who are also those who have the most etique extracurricular activities. The OECD had noted that the reform of educational rhythms was in the right direction. This marks a stop point and alerts us to the future of our young people. Moreover, the reduction of one morning does not appear to be offset in the budget by a sufficient increase in accompanying measures. The amount of commitment authorisations provided for educational actions complementary to teaching and school life – a sensitive subject – is more likely to be of concern to us. If in secondary education, a measure such as "Duties made" seems to us to be fair and in line with the reforms initiated before, we wonder, however, whether the budgets necessary for effective support are still at hand. Digital technology is also essential for our education system to be up to the age of the twenty-first century. In 2017, a major effort was made in this area, particularly in the context of the future investment programme, but we do not see what is planned to continue to do so in 2018. And the great forgotten of the PLF is school medicine. We have been struggling for years to cope with this worsening health crisis. Today, we know that positions have not been filled because the situation of school doctors is not sufficiently attractive in terms of income, allowances and expenses. How do you plan to improve this profession so important for the prevention and health of our children? Undiagnosed on time, visual and hearing disorders may oppose academic success. Finally, in the wake of Mrs Lang's interesting report on the schooling of allophone children, how can the school of the Republic make progress in this area? How can we improve the monitoring of dropouts, which are still very numerous, and the prevention of radicalisation? For all these reasons, our group will remain very vigilant about the improvements that need to be made to this budget, which, for the time being, in any case as regards its guidelines, does not seem to us to fully meet the crucial challenges before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u242	Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u243	Last Friday, I was speaking here to explain why I disagreed with the budget for higher education, research and innovation. Today, it is with regard to school education that I intervene, again challenging the budget allocated to this mission. First of all, I would like to point out that neither for me nor for my group is it a question of complacency in a systematic or partisan opposition. Seeing each of our amended amendments doesn't amuse us, know it! But I would like to stress that these disagreements over budgets reveal, in substance, two completely contradictory conceptions, two ways of designing policies: the first, yours, is to determine priorities for action on the basis of a budget already sealed and subject to a cure of austerity; The second, ours, is to affirm that the formation of young people is the priority of priorities and, from there, to find ways to satisfy it by implementing a general policy of recovery, which is strongly recommended by the IMF.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u244	Oh, the IMF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u245	As a result, Minister, as I have already said in committee, this "austerity" framework to which you subscribe leads you to undress Paul to dress Peter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u246	To make-up Pierre!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u247	Of course, we welcome your efforts to ensure classes of twelve students in the REP+, to better support students with disabilities through the maintenance of assisted contracts, which are accompanied by training, or to reintroduce balance sheets, for example. But you do not provide any answers on such fundamental topics as replacements and the role of complementary lists that can adequately address them, or the problem of contract workers, in primary and secondary education. There, we know some really rocky situations! As reported by a report by "Special Envoy", 25,000 contract workers are recruited each year for 1500 euros per month, without having not only teacher training, but even the most basic knowledge of the discipline taught. Minister, how do you intend to respond to this shortage? Another chronic problem is the overloaded classes. At the Jean Renoir high school in Bondy, where I was recently involved, the senior classes do not include less than 35 students – probably a way to prepare students for classes in amphitheater at the university, you will tell me! Finally, let me point out the situation of the local and regional authorities, which are participating up to 20% in the education budget and to whom you are already asking so much. Here, Minister, is some information live from the Seine-Saint-Denis. In the communal schools of Bagnolet and Stains, students had to take the coat classes because of a lack of heating. At Olympe de Gouges High School, in my constituency, there is a shortage of maintenance agents and they are at the limit of the burn-out, for lack of replacements and additional posts. The high school receives 400 more students this year in twelve prefabricated or 600 square meters of surface area in addition to cleaning. That is also the reality. And who do you count on for the "Devoirs faits" scheme, if not for the volunteerism of the AVS, the volunteerism of teachers or local associations, already exsangue? The EUR 1.3 billion increase in the Mission's appropriations does not address the problems I have just mentioned. It is completely out of step with the basic requirements of the mission. In our view, 14 billion more would be needed to meet the challenges of a national education that would have this simple ambition of being free, secular, compulsory and of quality for all. As far as free education is concerned, we have therefore asked for information reports on the cost of setting up organic and short-circuit school canteens, which would be a way of combating inequalities which are also found in the base, and on the cost of school supplies, particularly in the vocational fields. With regard to secularism, we question the increase in the budget for private schools. While the subject remains more sensitive than ever, we know that parents' growing demand for private education is not so much a question of religious education as of quality education. However, we oppose this tendency to privatize the public service on the pretext of its shortcomings. This is a very well described privatization technique by Noam Chomsky: to privatize a public service, we must first reduce its financing. It won't work anymore, people will get angry and they'll want something else. Moreover, our children are not market shares. That is why we reject the partnerships that national education builds with multinationals like Microsoft, in a quasi-monopoly situation. Finally, we are campaigning for a compulsory school of three to eighteen years, taking into account the current qualification requirements, and for a quality school involving qualified and valued staff – which involves the tenure and training of precarious staff, as well as the valorisation of the entire profession. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Minister, for all these reasons, we will again oppose this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u248	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u249	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of work, energy and resources to be mobilised to ensure that the school continues, as Condorcet said, to train citizens who do not let themselves be told, but who want to be held accountable. In recent years, neoliberal reforms have deeply deepened inequalities and austerity has degraded the conditions of study, with an average number of students per class increasing, a regular lack of replacements – we see the inspection being carried out at juggling between the localized intervention zones, the ZILs, and the departmental brigades – and a school medicine in dungeon. After Sarkozy's black quinquennium, and its 80000 fewer posts, accompanied by the abolition of the networks of specialized aids for pupils in difficulty – RASED – François Hollande's promise of 60000 creations, already insufficient, was not even kept. Today, the budget for 2018, which you defend, is above all that of the impossible "Bercy theorem": wanting to do better with less. Every idea, every step that goes in the right direction – I assure you, they will not be too many – is done at the expense of another. How could we be happy about that? This is indeed an increase of façade for this budget of the "School Education" mission. For starters, you are announcing the creation of 4000 positions in primary school. However, these posts will be financed at the expense of colleges and high schools, which will be subject to the abolition of 2600 teaching posts and 200 administrative posts. The doubling of CP classes in REP+, networks whose perimeter had been reduced by your predecessor, alone absorbs 3400 posts, to the detriment of the other levels: what to worry secondary teachers, but also the parents, in view of the increase in numbers at the beginning of 2018, especially at the college, with 30,000 new students. As a result, classes of 30 students in high school and 35 in high school become the norm. An example is that in Nanterre, Paul Éluard College, a priority school, closed a sixth class for this year's school year and the class size increased from 21 to 31 students. What will happen after the vote on your budget? You say that, in order to achieve 100% success in primary school, the duplication of classes of CP in REP+ is the solution. In the long run, the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP+ will have to be split. However, according to the logic of the Government, which constantly wants to do better with less resources, the pupils who are this year in split CP would end up in ordinary EC1 at the next school year, due to the lack of sufficient job creation. I hope you will tell me the opposite, because the effectiveness of the reduced workforce requires continuity, especially at these ages. The same applies to the consequences of the abolition of aided contracts, of which 23,000 disappeared from schools and institutions in that year. In the Hauts-de-Seine department alone, 300 have not been renewed in the national education sector. This mainly affects primary education – although it is a priority, according to the announcements – the support of disabled students and the administrative support for school directors and principals. Since the inclusion law, the number of students with disabilities in ordinary schools has increased, and this is normal. Even today, the transformation of the few assisted contracts into contracts for accompanying students with disabilities – AESH – is too weak. We recommend giving the AESH a status of national education officials, in order to provide them with genuine training and protection. Finally, the abolition of just over 2100 trainee teacher positions officially recognizes the crisis of recruitment among teachers. For the second degree, we will increase from 14450 positions put in the contest in 2017 to 11,000 in 2018. This is a serious signal to teachers, and it is a new turning point in educational policy, which will increase the recruitment of increasingly precarious contract workers. Hiring these staff instead of full-time staff means introducing into national education the logic of lowering the cost of work and starting a form of defunctionalisation, thereby creating the idea that the difficulties of the education system would not be a matter of means, but of good management – and you know that this is not true. Thus, the recruitment crisis can only continue. Let us add to this the announcements made on the matchings requested from the teachers. Minister, teachers, in the face of a recruitment crisis, do not expect advice from you on how to teach, but how best to accomplish their missions. They are asking for measures to improve their profession. This is urgent, as is the pre-recruitment. We see a contradiction between your communication – of course of quality – and the austerity in quantity, which is at the root of a total disruption of national education and the increase of inequalities. That is why we will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u251	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The next speaker is Mr Gaël Le Bohec, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u252	Minister, in ten years, the number of students with disabilities enrolled in regular schools has more than doubled: in the 2016-17 academic year, they were just over 300,000, an increase of just over 7% over the previous year. This increase is the result of the efforts made since the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, as well as the Act of 8 July 2013 on guidance and programming for the re-establishment of the school of the Republic. The latter includes provisions on teacher training and cooperation between national education and medical and social institutions and services, as well as training in digital tools for pupils in medical and social institutions and services. On the occasion of the inter-ministerial committee of 20 September 2017, the Government announced the programming, by 2022, of two very important measures, reaffirming, as you mentioned, the creation of more than 4,500 posts of AESH accompanyers and announcing the creation of more than 250 localised units for school inclusion – ULIS – especially in high school. The 26000 school life assistants, or AVS, have seen their working conditions improve. After six years of contract, they are now eligible for a CDI. However, while their profession may be more attractive in certain aspects, their numbers continue to suffer from a cruel shortage and difficulties persist in ensuring their presence today for the reception of pupils with disabilities, particularly in terms of the time spent in school catering, the reception in the morning and evening, as well as the whole of extracurricular time. Similarly, the vocational training of specialized teachers must be a central and major axis in order to ensure the effectiveness of school inclusion. What, then, are the measures envisaged to strengthen the training of teachers with disabilities and what solutions can you put forward so that the assistance provided to students with disabilities can be effective throughout the school day?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u253	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u254	Mr President, the reception of students with disabilities is, as you know, a priority of this government and a choice that was very clearly affirmed by the President of the Republic during the presidential campaign. This is a subject on which I work very closely with Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons. It should be noted that, in a small government, this position is occupied by a person who works in a highly concentrated and permanent relationship with my services. The growing reception of students with disabilities is confirmed in this 2017 re-entry: we have about 300,000 students, of which 172000 in the first degree and 128000 in the second degree, which represents an increase of 7% per year since 2012 and a sustained increase of 10% per year in the second degree. These are very important figures, which in some respects may question our identification system. In recent years there has been some qualitative improvement, but much remains to be done, particularly in the area of staff training. I would also like to refer to the telephone platform "Aide handicap école", whose number I recall: 0810555500, which normally allows to answer all the requests of the families. We also wanted to improve the human reception this year, with, as you have reminded us, 30,000 AESH, including 8,000 new posts, in addition to the 50,000 aided contracts. These are very high figures. For the 30% of pupils with disabilities enrolled with the support of a ULIS collective scheme, the 2017 school year is marked by the opening of 57 ULIS in the first degree and 208 in the second degree. These are therefore very important efforts. For the future, we need to go to school longer, longer and better – that's the meaning of the phrase: "inclusive school." As you can see, this budget is a desire to go ever further in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u255	The next speaker is Mrs Jacqueline Dubois, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u256	Minister, you are presenting a budget for school education that will enable the implementation of the priority commitment of the President of the Republic and the Government for youth to continue. This budget, over EUR 50 billion and an increase of EUR 1.3 billion compared to 2017, reflects the profound transformation of the education system that the French are looking forward to. It meets your objective of building a school of the Republic based on trust, goodwill and excellence by helping primary school students to acquire mastery of basic knowledge – and as a matter of priority the learning of reading – by continuing to duplicate the classes of CP and CE1 in REP +, by better accompanying the students towards success, in particular with the "Duties made" scheme, introduced since the beginning of November, by improving the schooling of pupils with disabilities by increasing the number and gradual professionalisation of AVS and AESH and by implementing a series of measures to help the senior pupils in their choice of guidance after the abolition of the unjust APB system. Thus, in the high school, as of December 2017, a second senior teacher will be appointed in each senior class in order to better accompany the orientation and allow fairer access to higher education. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is our duty to provide each student with the guidance that will enable him/her to succeed in his/her training and to engage with confidence in his/her adult life. So can you describe to us, Minister, the measures that will overcome the difficulties of communication between high school and higher education, as well as the lack of information for high school students and their families? How will student profiles, motivations, talents be considered? How will demographic change be managed?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u257	It's not a budget question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u258	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u259	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify a number of points relating to the current reform of access to higher education, to the evolution of our allocation system and also to the evolution of our guidance system. The first measures first and foremost affect the senior class in this year 2017-2018. They can be described as emergency measures; More structural developments will take place throughout the following years. The impact of this reform on the orientation is immediate. First, as you recalled, there is a measure to designate a second senior professor in the senior class. We expect much from this measure, first of all because it recalls the importance of teachers in the field of guidance: it cannot in fact be carried out by a single interlocutor, but by a group of interlocutors, first and foremost the professors. We have therefore given ourselves the means, through the Senior Professor's Award, to create this second senior professor position at the senior level. This will allow human and personalized support for each student. We have also planned that the end-of-first-quarter class council, which takes place at the end of November or in the course of December, will be a personalized counselling moment for students regarding their first wishes that they freely express at that time of year. These are therefore extremely concrete changes for all. They will also be accompanied by an evolution of our information system, through the evolution of the platforms of ONISEP – National Information Office on Teachings and Professions – such as www.my guidanceline.fr, allowing to offer more precise information. All these developments will have a more general impact on guidance in our school system over the months and years to come. To be more effective, this system must involve all teachers more closely and allow for the evolution of staff and guidance institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u260	Mr Xavier Breton, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u261	I would like to return to the credits of the "School Education" mission, which brings us together tonight. The Prime Minister announced that the Government was planning to introduce two senior teachers in each senior grade, beginning in December. We have mentioned this in terms of principles, but you have just implied that there will be a budgetary impact: how much do you estimate it? Is it included in the finance bill you are introducing for 2018? The second question is that teachers and alternate teachers are, as we know, indispensable for the proper functioning of national education institutions in order to carry out ad hoc replacements. However, the situation of these contractors is often precarious, with salaries just above the SMIC in the first degree for staff holding at least one bac+3. A decree published in 2016 had allowed for a better recognition of the indispensable work they provide. The status of these public contractors has been changed to substantially improve their situation, which we welcome. Rectors can even decide to increase remuneration in disciplines where there is a shortage of teachers. However, substitutes for private establishments under contract have not been included in these developments; pay differentials can now reach up to EUR 600. This is deeply unfair and difficult to justify socially. This even leads, in private institutions, to increasingly insurmountable recruitment difficulties, penalizing teaching teams and families, and endangering part of the private educational offer, which is nevertheless recognized and protected by the Constitution. Minister, do you intend to redress this injustice?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u262	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u263	Mr President, there are several questions in your speech; I'll answer it. First of all, we settled the question of the second senior professor in management: the cost, of about 34 million euros, was incorporated into the finance bill for 2018, first because we had anticipated it, then because it fits into the general envelope that we had planned for the premiums. With regard to contract workers, you first mentioned the situation of contract workers in public education. It is a matter of interest, of concern, but also, I hope, a subject of progress for the time to come, so that we do not defuse a certain threshold of contract: there will always be contractors in our system, but their number must not become too large. This reminds me of a previous intervention on the question of tenure; There will be work on this issue. The heart of your question is about contract workers in private education. Favourable measures have been taken in recent years for the delegated teachers of private first degree education, notably through the decree of 31 July 2015. A decree of 2016 also amended the framework for the management of contractual teachers of public education, with an impact on private education. I can hear the problem you're raising. We will set up a working group made up of representatives of trade union and professional organisations from the private education network to see exactly what the situation is today. There is indeed a large wage gap. Recall that all the deprecarization measures proposed to civil servants under the Sauvadet scheme and its extensions have been adapted without delay to the master delegates since 2012; 4000 first and second degree teachers have been integrated into a pay scale of incumbents. Nevertheless, the question of contract workers is still a problem, and I would like to acknowledge it: we have to work on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u264	Mrs Maud Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u265	I would like to question the Government and the national representation on a very problematic subject of topicality for many of our primary schools but even more so for secondary schools: this is the question of the teachers replacing the first and the second degree. Most recently, parents of students launched an initiative to put Créteil's rectorate in front of its responsibilities by publishing pictures of schools where teachers were not replaced on social media. In some of these institutions, teachers have been missing since the beginning of the year, and many classes are without classes in physical sciences, technology, French, mathematics and I pass. The same is true for teachers in schools. The press has taken over this and is not helping to restore that confidence in the school you call your vows, and for which we support you. You will understand that parents despair of this situation and question us, by all means, about it. The reasons given are well known and underlined by the teachers' unions: there is no pool of substitute teachers sufficient to meet the needs on the ground. We know that efforts are being made to budget in the most tense areas a replacement potential above the national average, which is currently just over 8 per cent, but this is clearly insufficient. Minister, we must therefore respond to an emergency: that of the classes still without a teacher. But there is also a need for a longer-term response on the human resources that we need to make available to national education. The human resource – I know this subject well – is a guarantee of success. Mr. Minister, we would therefore like to hear from you on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u266	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u267	Madam Member, the question that you raise is one of the most delicate in the education system; This is one of the subjects most felt by the parents of students. Our system responds only moderately to this problem; other systems do better, others do worse, but it is certain that with the means we have, we should respond much better to this situation. A distinction must first be made between short-term replacement and long-term replacement. In reality, on the long-term replacement – beyond 15 days – our system succeeds quite well in replacing, even if improvements are possible. It is on short-term replacement that we still encounter great difficulties; It is this one which, poorly realized, is very badly lived by families. I would like to recall a few figures: in 2015-2016, an average of 2.3 teaching days per year are not insured. This is obviously worrying when we see that, in the first degree, 26,700 jobs are mobilised in 2017. We therefore intend to go further, with 1300 additional jobs, and this effort will continue in 2018 with 1.9 billion euros spent on replacement. These figures are very important and normally, with these means, we should be able to do better. Strengthening the existing potential will therefore be one of the elements of response, as will better information. This will provide us with indicators on non-replacement that will enable us to better manage this. Above all, the management of the replacement will have to be improved. This involves upstream measures, human resources management: if we ensure more well-being at work for our teachers and give them more happiness, we will experience less absenteeism. By creating a closer replacement of schools and institutions, we should do this. One of the first steps I took in 2017 is the creation of a single pool of replacements per department in the first degree. This should increase our efficiency; I intend to improve the situation in 2017-2018. True measures to promote future efficiency will be seen from the start of 2018, but by then we are extremely attentive to what happens on a case-by-case basis, rectorate by rectorate. I hope to improve the percentage of long-term replacement but also short-term replacement this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u268	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u269	Minister, you said in today's Le Parisien that authority should be restored to the school system. But authority must be just and keep its word in order to be respected. How do you think you're re-establishing an authority when the republican promise that the school must carry is in tatters? You have decided to give the municipalities the free choice of school rhythms, putting the mayors face to face with great difficulties. Some cities will therefore make weeks of four days, others of five days in a row or with a day off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u270	We must not be afraid of the freedom of the communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u271	So can we still talk about national education with such territorial disparities? Do you think that the physiological needs of a child in Roubaix differ from those of a child in Paris? Especially since, according to the cities, there are large disparities in extracurricular time: the poorest cities do not have the same means to ensure these extracurricular activities and do not have the same offer. Education, which will soon have no more national than the name, no longer ensures the equality of pupils on more and more important parts of education. If we add to that your announcements on the bachelor's degree, which would be in continuous control, the loop is closed: you introduce an inequality on the diplomas. Do you intend to produce an education that no longer guarantees republican equality and deepens territorial inequalities? Do you measure the effects of all these schemes against the project of an increasingly democratic school, and what steps will you take to remedy it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u273	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u274	Thank you, Madam Member, for your question, allowing me to have philosophical and practical clarifications at the same time. Let us start with the practical plan: the situation I found when I took up my duties as Minister of National Education cannot be characterized by equality. I found deep inequalities, confirmed by international surveys, as well as by all the available studies revealing what was happening on the ground. This is true for all the topics you have addressed: it is true for school rhythms, which are at the heart of your question. In no case has the measure of uniformity of the school rhythm in France ensured greater equality between pupils; It's even the opposite. What I saw was first heterogeneity. For example, in more than 20 per cent of municipalities, students did not have classes on Friday afternoons. What I saw was a heterogeneity of means. There is indeed a difference between a big city like Paris and a mountain village or in rural or island areas. A facade equality concealed a reality of deep inequalities. Perhaps what you have just defended is theoretical equality; What we are doing is practical equality. If 40 per cent of the municipalities made this choice freely, in connection with their educational community, it was because they wanted it deeply. It's also because it was a need. The surveys show a rate of approval of this measure exceeding 80%. You should be afraid of being at odds with what the vast majority of people think about such a subject. You should also be afraid to refer to groundless studies. There is no evidence of the superiority of the four-and-a-half-day week over the four-day week, even the opposite: the most robust study in this area, that of the department's Directorate of Evaluation, Prospectiveness and Performance (DEP), which was commissioned by my predecessor, shows that this has no impact on academic performance and that there is no superiority of one formula over another. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] What is important is the freedom that we have allowed. We continue to financially support the municipalities that remain four and a half days away. It is therefore a system of freedom and pragmatism that we have wanted, not a system of uniformity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u275	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u276	Minister, the Seine-Saint-Denis is the youngest department in metropolitan France, but also the department where the median income is the lowest, where the proportion of children living in a single parent family is the highest and where the rate of children living below the poverty line is the highest. This situation undoubtedly explains the parents' deep attachment to school as a crucible for social integration and promotion, as it is in the modest circles and within the popular families that the expectations for education are highest. It is precisely in the Seine-Saint-Denis that the Republic is most lacking in its promise. As an expert interviewed last week by the mission to assess the action of the State in the exercise of its sovereign missions in the Seine-Saint-Denis, "the least well-equipped establishment in Paris is always more so than the best-equipped establishment in the Seine-Saint-Denis. » This finding is unfortunately old and confirmed by the data transmitted by the Ministry of National Education itself. Thus the Seine-Saint-Denis has the lowest enrolment rate of children of two years of age. This is the department where teachers' seniority is lowest; the one with the highest number of contract teachers – 400 for elementary education alone at the beginning of the school year. Will the additional competition of the Academy of Créteil be renewed in 2018 in order to limit the use of contract workers? You who are attached to teacher training, what do you intend to do to fill the shortage of trainers at Livry-Gargan School of Teachers and Education? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Almost twenty years after the catch-up plan for national education in Seine-Saint-Denis, all the indicators are red. Do you intend to draw up a plan for the future with the actors in this department? We are the youngest department and also one of the most populous in France. We will not be able to build the future of this country by making a cross over this promising department.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u277	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u278	Thank you for this question which allows me to refer to the situation of the Seine-Saint-Denis, a department which I know quite well as you know. This situation shows that we are obliged to act in a differentiated manner according to the departments. This is a new proof that uniformity is not the path to equality. It is our ability to look at the specific difficulties of each territory that allows us to adapt. This is how freedom can lead to more equality. The Seine-Saint-Denis needs specific measures. You recalled this about the second competition created by the Academy of Créteil that turned out to be a success. There is therefore no reason not to maintain it next year. The causes that led to this second competition must of course be addressed. We need it now, but I hope that in the medium term this will no longer be the case. Similarly, we must limit the use of contract workers in this academy, but there too it will take several years. In the immediate future, it remains indispensable. I do not want the Seine-Saint-Denis to be presented as being particularly disadvantaged by public policies. To the voluntarism of the local authorities, starting with that of the department, is added the voluntarism of the State vis-à-vis the Seine-Saint-Denis. It is the department that benefits most from the duplication of classes of CP. It is the department that will benefit most from all the measures we are going to take in favour of priority education. We must cultivate a kind of voluntarism and optimism for this territory. I talked to the president of the departmental council. We are ready to experiment with specific approaches that promote the qualitative aspect. I would point out that the 1998 emergency plan to which you are referring did not have a particular impact on school results in Seine-Saint-Denis. We must therefore learn from what happened then and advocate new qualitative approaches rather than a sprinkle of resources. These new qualitative approaches, I am quite prepared to do so. For example, with regard to the higher school of faculty and education you are quoting, it could be the vanguard of the qualitative approach in the future in the Academy of Créteil.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u279	We're done with the questions. I propose that we extend our sitting to consider the eight amendments which have been tabled, knowing, however, that we will not be able to go later than 20 hours thirty or twenty-five hours. I thank you in advance for being concise in your interventions. Do you all agree? Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u280	I call the credits of the "School Education" mission, listed in state B. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1256.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u281	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the implementation of the Student Plan, which was announced by the Government in order to deal with the demographic shock and to improve guidance in higher education through the creation of short-term positions. It is an opportunity to deploy our will to improve the success of BTS professional bachelors and to offer alternatives to certain engulfed fields. Of the €20 million announced by the Government, an appropriation of €2.3 million is planned for the School Education Mission. These credits will allow the creation of 144 additional jobs to accommodate more than 3200 students in the higher technician sections as of the 2018 school year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u283	This Student Plan puts an end to the somewhat ubiquitous situations that we have experienced in the last few years – I am thinking in particular of the drawing of lots. The committee's opinion is therefore in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u284	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 1116.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u285	This amendment aims to increase the support fund for extracurricular activities. You will reply that you have only adjusted this budget line, as some municipalities have left this system. I would like to take the example of the small town I was the mayor of. A number of challenges had to be addressed: problems with the provision of premises, short-time management and, above all, human resources. To remedy this, we relied on our social and cultural centre, which already had animation skills. We have relied on permanents and have trained young people recruited into jobs of the future. They passed BAFA and were then referred to graduate training courses in the context of employment centres in particular. We have had great success in terms of the quality of extracurricular activities. Young people have entered working life through future jobs. Today you have eliminated jobs for the future, to the detriment of the communities but also of the associations and you are removing the houses of employment, which allowed us to accompany these young people towards qualification. You say that you have left us the choice of leaving or staying in this system, but in reality many municipalities no longer have the means to provide extracurricular activities. However, when they put an end to it, it poses problems. For example, through associations, activities must be found for children whose parents work on Wednesday mornings. We are putting in place "mornings of success" with breakfast, school accompaniment and sports or cultural activities. Do you ever plan to review the calendar of the big holidays? Don't you think it was somewhat premature to evaluate recently introduced devices, such as the "More Masters Than Classes" device? Finally, last point: for devices specific to the REP+, the principle of zoning is problematic, as the villages next door do not benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u287	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u289	I'd like to answer all your questions, but I can't do it here, given the time we have. I invite you to be optimistic about this, on all the benches, because we intend to devote a great deal of energy to this extracurricular time which was not of such high quality until now: many improvements are possible. Much remains to be done for a successful Wednesday morning and Wednesday afternoon. The opinion will be unfavourable because we are consistent. This support fund was intended for municipalities that had spent four and a half days: we maintain it in the same proportions as before. This does not exclude other resources. In particular, we are working with the National Fund for Family Allowances to ensure that there are both more resources and more simplicity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u290	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u291	This very interesting amendment raises a question that has been too little discussed since the end of last year. By placing mayors, under the pretext of freedom of choice, in the face of the responsibility to decide whether to spend four or four and a half days, the issue of the interests of the child was obscured. It is still the ministry's function to consider school rhythms from the point of view of the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u292	It's not the mayors who decide, it's the city councils! And the school boards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u293	Mayors are not fools!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u294	The second question is the question of means. Rural areas do not have sufficient resources, neither financial nor associative, to develop quality extracurricular activities. This is the problem which this amendment aims to address and which must be resolved if all schools in France are to be offered extracurricular activities of the same level. This is a very important subject. I'll end up with a question that I care about. You are increasing the resources of higher education and I fully support this increase made necessary by demographic changes. But the closure of classes in rural areas also calls for an urgent response – I have already written to you on this subject. In the very first question to the Government, we applauded you when you said that these stupid quantitative criteria should be removed on behalf of which class closure is justified. The consequences of a class closure in rural areas are quite different from what they are in the city. For example, it often lengthens school transport times, and this problem spoils the lives of families. This also affects the quality of education. Sometimes when there are only three teachers left instead of four, German or English are no longer taught in these schools. That is why we expect you to decide on a moratorium on these closures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u295	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u296	Of course, I do not share the positions of the colleagues who have just spoken. Mayors have the opportunity, with school councils and the body of national education, to choose the best solutions for their city, week of four days or four and a half days. Could you confirm that there will be funding for the cities that will choose to maintain the four and a half days over the duration of the quinquennium?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u297	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 1029.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u298	The aim of this amendment is to transfer the increased share of the appropriations allocated to the 139 "Private Education" programme, in order to distribute them fairly in favour of the appropriations of the 998 and 999 programmes. The aim is to strengthen support for public school education at the first and second levels. Every year, more than 90 per cent of private institutions receive public funding to finance their teaching and operating costs. Recall that the vast majority of these schools provide religious education, while in France the Republican school is secular. Secularism must be placed at the heart of the educational project, which does not exclude individual religious practices; On the contrary, secularism guarantees everyone freedom of worship and thought, but the school must maintain its neutrality. That is why we wish to make this transfer of funds to the public school.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u300	The duty of education is incumbent on the State, regardless of the mode of schooling of children. It is necessary that funds be allocated, regardless of the type of institution chosen, in the name of this principle of parity. In addition, credits are increased proportionally in public education, as this increase is due to the natural increase in the number of students enrolled. Furthermore, to obtain these credits, private institutions must be placed under contract with the State and must provide their teachings in accordance with the rules and programmes of public education. They are also subject to educational checks, in the same way as other institutions. These credits are used for the remuneration of staff and the operation of classes; They ensure the continuity of the programmes, which is in the general interest. Public and private education are entirely complementary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u301	It's not possible to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u303	Same unfavorable opinion as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u304	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 669.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u305	Programmes 141 and 139 propose a reduction of more than 85 per cent in teaching credits compared to 2017, on the grounds that all students would be equipped with textbooks in accordance with the new programmes. However, 23% of science textbooks in line with the new programs are missing among sixth grade students. More worrying, strong territorial disparities have emerged: in Brittany, for example, 75% of students do not have an individual manual in physics and chemistry. However, students and their families all need up-to-date and program-compliant textbooks to work at home and in the classroom. It is necessary to combat this risk of worsening territorial inequalities by remedying these situations of individual non-equipment of pupils. This amendment therefore provides for a transfer of appropriations from programme 214 to programmes 141 and 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u307	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u309	It would take a long time to talk about the necessary overhaul of our textbook policy. Far from having disappeared, as I have sometimes read, this aid amounts to EUR 16 million for 2018, more than it was in 2015, for example. The figures for 2016 and 2017 are explained by the fact that new programmes were in place. One of the reasons why we should not go further is because of the irrationality of our system: the state finances textbooks at the college, while the communities are responsible for them for primary school and high school. I never found a Cartesian explanation for that! This decline does not mean a disengagement of the State. However, we do not have to give in to requests from different sectors. Should we, in the digital age, feed into a production which, moreover, raises qualitative questions, not to mention the questions which may arise as to the qualitative dimension? I hear your concern, but I do not think it is justified: the colleges were equipped last year and the previous year. We will work in connection with the publishers, keeping in mind the interest of the student. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u310	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 1096.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u311	This amendment aims to improve the state's contribution to the functioning of private full-time agricultural establishments, including the National Council for Private Agricultural Education (CNEAP) as the main representative federation. This contribution to the operation of private agricultural establishments contracted with the State is defined by the Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code, with reference to the cost of a pupil in public agricultural education. Since 2002, this rate has deviated from the actual cost of a student in public agricultural education, of which it represents only 64 per cent. Many private schools in the agricultural education network are in great economic difficulty and threaten to be unable to fulfil their public education service tasks for the young people they attend. Their participation in the dynamics of the territories would thus be called into question. The request is to facilitate their work in the territory by raising the grant to the amount of EUR 156 million, or 75% of the cost of a pupil in public education. It would take €208 million for that to be 100%. As you know, the Minister, an agricultural high school is both a place of initial training by school and apprenticeship, but also an economic and social agent: it is the only employer in its settlement municipality, and it maintains the social link with the population in rural areas, sometimes in dispossessed. These induced products are complementary to success in terms of occupational integration, since more than 94% of young people find employment within six months of graduation. We saw that, Minister, when we went to Egletons with the President of the Republic. This education does not produce unemployed people and creates, in fact, much higher value than the increase in the contribution requested. This amendment therefore makes the transfer of EUR 29108300 from programme 214 "Support of national education policy" to programme 143 "Agricultural technical education".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u312	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u313	Agricultural education is one of the successes of our country, which is complementary to public and private education. The financing of private full-time agricultural establishments is provided by the multi-annual protocols signed between the State and the federations, including the CNEAP. A new protocol is being negotiated for the period 2018-2022. Beyond the financing, the State makes available 5000 agents for a cost included in this € 242 million finance bill. It should be recalled that 210 positions were created between 2012 and 2017. The elements you are referring to are those provided by the NECAP, whose method of assessing credits differs from that of the State. It appears that for 2002, taken by CNEAP as the reference year, the theoretical coverage rate based on the 2001 five-year survey was not 100%, but 75.8% of the theoretical cost, with an operating subsidy of EUR 87.2 million. In 2016, the theoretical coverage rate calculated by reference to the 2012 five-year survey was 78,4 %, not 64 %, with a grant of EUR 116 million. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u314	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u315	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u316	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u317	I very much regret that you are rejecting this amendment, Mr Minister, and I would like us to talk about it again because we have been able, together, to measure how much these schools of training perfectly adapted to local needs are indispensable. We all know, because we are men and women in the territories, that a number of these private agricultural establishments are in difficulty. I invite you, Minister, to come to Indre-et-Loire to meet the leaders of the rural family homes – MFR. They are people who are very committed to students and teachers, and are currently facing great financial difficulties as a result of the disengagement of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u318	I have before me a number of amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 55. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1101.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u319	We have heard the reply just given by the Special Rapporteur. I don't want to hear numbers, but letters. For beyond these magnificent encrypted elements, there is a question: "What is the word of the State worth? » In 1984, the Rocard Act provided that the subsidy rate for private agricultural education should be increased to 65%. Today, we are 64%, and you want to lower this rate to 61%. The State is not fulfilling its commitments. The Special Rapporteur explained that it was the methods of analysis that differed and that the State's words had been respected. But I only believe what I see. What I see is that private institutions are finding it more and more difficult to close the end of the month. We can do all the encrypted demonstrations we want. The reality is that this budget decides to lower the subsidy rate, which is not a good signal, and that it is in contradiction with what had been tendently proven. And yes, this network, which is very important, is experiencing serious inconvenience, in the context we know. The Minister of Agriculture has told us that this is your responsibility, Minister. I hope that, on this subject of interest to us all, you will be able to answer in substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u321	For the same reasons as explained above, unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u323	Member of the Commission, Mr President, I would like to refer to this subject with you, and with as many letters as numbers! The opinion is unfavourable, for several reasons. First, we are applying the convention, as it was established. There is therefore no breach of the word of the State. On the other hand, this does not prevent me from paying tribute to private agricultural education, which actually fulfils an important mission. I usually greet agricultural education, whether it is public or private, because it is extremely interesting. In this case, the specifications for the 2017 five-year survey were drawn up in consultation with the private full-time education federations. They validated it and acknowledged its conclusions. For this reason, I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u324	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u325	I would like to point out to you, Mr Minister, that my amendment is very different from that of my colleague. Here, we propose that the criteria for determining the grant be defined in consultation between the administration and staff representatives, with a subsidy rate that takes into account the situation of these establishments at the national level. [[Smile]] It is not a question of fully guiding the executive's approach, but of setting principles that will ensure a good subsidy rate. I do not see how such principles can be opposed. Therefore, if you want to withdraw your unfavorable opinion, you have a few seconds left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u326	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u327	I am aware that the time is ticking, but I would like to tell you, Minister, that it is always perilous to weaken what works. 65 per cent of agricultural education is found to be private. It is not a question of valuing the private sector in relation to the public, but it is a fact that the bulk of agricultural education is private, and that it works. It even works very well. That is why we invite you, Minister, to think carefully about the risk of weakening this teaching. The heads of private agricultural establishments tell us that they are facing difficulties, and this is detrimental to the education that is administered by these institutions, which are quite remarkable. In the rural world, agricultural education is a major fact. We would therefore be very pleased, Minister, to come back to this issue with you as soon as you agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u328	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 1026.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u329	The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to prepare an information report assessing the method of public funding and the modalities necessary for the implementation of a plan for the tenure of precarious national education personnel. Indeed, it is no longer possible to tolerate the conditions of employment and work of contract staff, to the number of 32900 at the beginning of 2015. These personnel are recruited on a fixed-term contract – CSD – of one year, renewable or not, and their remuneration starts at 1500 euros gross for a ferry + 2 or 1700 euros gross for a ferry + 3. While they have the same service obligations and workload as a incumbent, they earn between 300 and 500 gross euros less. Moreover, the requirement to train contract workers is absolutely not in line with the ambitions we should have in school education. Their recruitment is more than worrying, since a candidate with a simple licence can potentially be in front of a class within a few days. We oppose the manifest and widespread desire of successive governments to create a contractual civil service and we call for priority to be given to competitive recruitment in order to ensure quality education for students and their parents. This is the purpose of this report, which aims to quantify the exit from the precarisation of contract teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u331	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that reports on the issue of contract personnel in national education have already been produced, one of them very recently. The Court of Auditors' report "Managing Teachers Other", dated 4 October 2017, refers in fact to the issue of the increasing use of contract staff due to the lack of incumbents. The Court made recommendations, which will serve as a basis for possible future reforms. It is therefore not useful for Parliament to commission a new report on the subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u333	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u334	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u335	I want to support this amendment, because the precariousness of national education staff is a real subject. You say there's already a report, but why haven't we used it yet to find solutions? We need to gain in readability and stability, because it is important for students that the teaching world be well-trained. Under the previous legislature, we had strengthened teacher training and I believe that we should continue in this direction. Having accurate data will help us find the right solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u336	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u337	Out of respect for MM. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout and Mr Michel Larive, I would like to give some answers. I am not saying that this subject is not important; It is extremely important. But it is also true that we have all the information we need to deal with this issue, and we will work on it without delay. Again, this is a subject on which we will have to differentiate between the territories. I am thinking of the specificities of Mayotte and Guyana, where I recently visited with the President of the Republic. The question of the tenure of contract staff must be raised in specific terms. I am also thinking of what we said earlier about the Seine-Saint-Denis. I do not deny the importance of this issue, I repeat, but it does not seem useful to me to make a new report on this subject. We will draw the consequences of the already existing reports and work towards that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u338	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u339	I would only like you, minister, not to caricature the question I asked you earlier. I was not offering you the Soviet Union model. I am just saying that the Republic must ensure equality between citizens. So stop caricaturing my words by saying that I want uniformity everywhere, because it's a little annoying. On the other hand, I would like to recall a rather striking figure, which shows that the Government absolutely must act. I hear that you have a report on the subject and that you are going to take it, but I will remind you that, contrary to what is often said in the media, teachers are underpaid in France. As a proportion of the wealth rate and average wage, Polish teachers are better paid than French teachers. That must make us think.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u340	I call Mr Michel Vialay to support Amendment No. 1107.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u341	The Ministry of National Education started in 2007 for five years and with a budget of 80 million euros, the SIRHEN project – Human Resources and Means Management Information System –, renamed SIRH, to modernise the Ministry's human resources management. Ten years already! However, in a March 2017 report, the Court of Auditors expressed concern about a project whose final cost has already increased fivefold. It would be estimated at nearly EUR 400 million to date, which poses many difficulties. It must also be noted that the overall schedule of the project was even extended until 2023. A report from the Government was therefore needed, in order to understand the shortcomings that had led to that situation. This project, which was launched to save money, could turn into a financial abyss. At a time when the state of our country's public finances has to push everyone to make savings, such drifts must be corrected, before the damage is even greater. This project, launched ten years ago, aimed to secure and modernize, by adding new functions, an HRIS that already showed its limits. In the absence of modernization under the previous quinquennium, this system now seems to belong to the past. It is therefore likely that it will no longer be operational in the very short term, which would have dramatic consequences for the services of the State, and especially for the many collaborators of this very large ministry, whose missions are at the service of our children, and therefore for our future. After the failures of Louvois programs and the national pay operator – ONP – let's not renew past mistakes. I therefore invite you to vote for this amendment, which calls for an evaluation report on the causes of the malfunctioning of the SIRH project of the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u343	I refer to my previous argument. I do not think a new report on this issue is necessary, as the assessments and figures are already known. In this context, it is up to us, as legislators, not to commission further expertise, but to use the tools that are already at our disposal to modernise the systems concerned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u345	Same opinion. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u346	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u347	This situation has continued for ten years. That we have numbers is one thing; another mode of operation is another. To date, I simply note that the completion of this project is delayed to 2023, which is quite dramatic. It took 16 years to implement this new human resources information system, which we are not even sure it will be in the nails. The Ministry of National Education clearly has very obsolete tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u348	Where's transparency?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u349	We completed the review of the "School Education" mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1051.u350	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-two o'clock: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: appropriations of the missions " Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities " and " Health ". The meeting is adjourned.
