ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u1	Pursuant to articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, I declare open the special session convened by decree of the President of the Republic of 28 June 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u2	The next item is the Government's policy statement pursuant to article 49, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, the debate and the vote on that declaration. [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u3	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, "Despite a difficult fate, I am, I always remain optimistic. Life taught me that with time, progress always prevailed. It's long, it's slow, but in the end, I trust. These words are from Simone Veil. They were pronounced in 1995, but they are eternal and they are those of France. They say what it takes of effort and courage to make progress happen. They also say how much trust and progress have been linked. As I speak from this rostrum in front of the national representation and after quoting Simone Veil, I want to talk to you about another woman: a woman who, at the end of the summer of 2003, pushed the heavy doors of a big Parisian school; a young woman whom nothing predestined to enter this place; a young woman who grew up in Seine-Saint-Denis, attended schools in priority education districts in Villetanuse and Saint-Ouen; a young woman whose parents, driver-baggage and caregiver, did not expect her to enter this great Parisian school, then become a lawyer, then work in the most prestigious offices, then found her own firm. This young woman is sitting on your benches today. His success is the product of his work, of his commitment, of his tenacity. It also owes it to the decision of a public official, in this case the director of Sciences Po, who had, a few years earlier, pushed his institution to open it to forms of excellence, perhaps a little less conventional. This public policy, criticized when adopted, copied since then, appears, a few years later, thanks to the work and effort of those who benefit from it, as a model, as progress. It is long, it is difficult, but it works, and not only for this young girl: at least two of you have benefited from this bold public policy, including a young man from Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni, one of the benjamins of this assembly, who may be one of those great figures that Guyana sometimes offers to our country. These paths are individual, of course, but they are made possible by public policy. So will the Republic, or rather, so should it go. I look at this assembly, I look at those benches where I sat a few weeks ago. I see a Creuse breeder, a farmer like his father, his grandfather, and so many others before him, rooted in his land to the point that the place where he lives bears the name of his family. He fought to continue living there, to defend the excellence of French agriculture. I see a young woman officer, who took part in two external operations and commanded one of the companies of the Franco-German Brigade. I see another of your benjamins, born in Rwanda four years before the genocide and collected by the Republic, who gave him his best face and who can be proud to see him today representing the nation. I see high-level athletes, entrepreneurs, scientists, activists from the community world. I even see math! Matheux who, through their talent and their work, are both a pride for your assembly and a pride for France. I see a rejuvenated, feminized and largely renewed assembly, since 430 of you are taking their first steps in this chamber; an assembly that bears the republican heritage, and resembles France. And it is before this renewed assembly, ladies and gentlemen, that a joint government presents itself, which is also deeply renewed by the diversity of its origins, professional and political, and which the President of the Republic has asked me to lead. I'm measuring that honor. I also measure the responsibility for the task that is mine, and I approach it with great humility; I have read all of my predecessors' statements in preparation for this general policy statement. I say well, from that of Michel Debré on January 15, 1959, to that of Bernard Cazeneuve on December 14. All these speeches were inspired by the most sincere convictions, praiseworthy patriotism and the highest sense of state. We must have the courage to say it, even if it is against the current of the ideas received: France has never lacked competent politicians and often of exceptional quality. I know what I owe to one of them, Alain Juppé, and here I would like to pay tribute to him. Of all these policy statements, two have made a special mark on me. I quote an excerpt from the first: "From this blocked society, I retain three essential elements [...]: the fragility of our economy, the often defective functioning of the state, and finally the archaism and conservatism of our social structures. These words are very topical. They were pronounced on 16 September 1969 by Jacques Chaban-Delmas forty-eight years ago – many of us were not born. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] The second speech is a little more recent: "Our priorities are not those of half of France against the other half, but those of all the French. Undoing what others have done, doing what others will do, is the kind of policy that voters no longer want. We will not ask anyone to join us out of interest or betray their convictions. These are the words of Michel Rocard, delivered on June 29, 1988, almost thirty years ago. Rocard, Chaban: two eminent personalities, two statesmen who have embodied two essential currents of our political life, Gaullism and Social Democracy. These two men therefore agreed on a finding and a method. However, the diagnosis made 48 years ago remains, alas, valid. The method proposed thirty years ago still remains a requirement, but too rarely a reality. And France, unlike many of the nations of the world, does not solve its problems. This results in a mortifying feeling of disarray, discouragement, disenchantment and anger. We know that feeling. We sometimes feel it ourselves and know its power. Our compatriots expressed this, and strongly, during the presidential election, by a reflex of abstention or an exasperation vote. You have to understand these anxieties. You have to hear that anger. But our compatriots also expressed tremendous hope in bringing Emmanuel Macron to the Presidency of the Republic. While great democracies chose to retreat on themselves, the back turned to the world, the French, together with the President of the Republic, preferred the spirit of openness and conquest. They were offered powerless nostalgia, they preferred the courage to face the future. They had to choose between anger and trust, they expressed anger, but they chose optimism and gathering. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group, the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LC group]] During the campaign, since his election and again yesterday before the Congressional Parliament, the President of the Republic has shown us the course. I am pleased that we have often missed a course. He also told us how to do this. It holds in three points: tell the truth; working with all women and men of good will; achieve concrete results as quickly as possible. This course is clear. He must be held. In the interests of coherence, the French have given the President and the Government the means to follow this course by designating a clear and undisputed majority. This clear majority, no one thinks it's a white-seing. It involves at least as many duties as rights. That the Government could base its action on a strong majority is a good thing, that it always has in mind that the general interest is never reduced to any fraction of the French people, even the majority, is a much better one. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] But France must move forward. There is in "our dear and old country" a desire, an energy, a hope that transcends political currents. This should not surprise anyone: the French have accustomed us, through the ages, to these collective bursts and to these returns of confidence, even though everything seemed blocked or even lost. In 2017, the French told us that they wanted France to be again at last: confident, courageous and conquering.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u4	Where were you before, sir? You were with us, back there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u5	To become itself again, France must restore confidence, and first of all the confidence of the French in public action. I'm talking about trust and no morals. I won't be the arbiter of elegance and I don't like the mix of genres. Nor am I an unconditional of absolute transparency that quickly turns to voyeurism and hypocrisy. I believe in the old Roman word of "virtual", which covers both honestness, straightness and courage. We have made progress in this area for thirty years...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u6	Honesty...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u7	...under pressure often, but very clearly. The rules for financing political parties and electoral campaigns are now much stricter and much healthier than they were 30 years ago. Let's take this step forward. They don't matter. I want to make this clear: we must never allow those who have made the honourable choice to devote part of their lives to the service of their fellow citizens and to public affairs to be discredited, but in their very interests we still have to act, because there are obviously practices which have been tolerated for a long time, but which the French people no longer accept. It is a question of setting the framework that will enable us to clean up our public life and restore the confidence of the French while laying down clear rules for the elected ones. That is the purpose of the first bill before you. As the President of the Republic said yesterday, we will also launch in the year the institutional reforms essential for the modernization of our democracy. In particular, I will stress the reform of the justice system. In a rule of law, nothing is possible without strong justice. If it is slow, or distant, or unequal, or even too complex, trust is weakened. Constitutional reform will strengthen the independence of the judiciary. As of 2018, a five-year law on the programming of the means of justice will be presented to Parliament. This law will allow the guard of the seals to initiate a vast movement of dematerialization, simplification and reorganization. To have confidence in justice is to be able to use it simply and to know that it will decide quickly, in particular on the most serious offences: combating terrorism, serious crime, organized fraud and violence, especially those committed to the most fragile. Penalties will be strengthened while other incivilities will be subject to contraventions rather than more cumbersome but too often ineffective procedures. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and several benches of the LC group]] The construction of 15,000 additional prison places is a strong commitment of the President of the Republic. He will be bound, not only because he cannot incarcerate those who must be, but also because we must treat prisoners with dignity. It is essential not to turn prisons into incubators of tomorrow's violence, and it is essential for us, because it is also our dignity that is at stake. We will therefore do what has to be done, without ever forgetting that prison is not an end in itself and that it is necessary to use all the penalties provided for in the Penal Code. The use of confinement should not reflect a laziness of mind that would prevent reflection on the meaning of the sentence, on the need to prevent recidivism, on the obligation to prepare for reintegration. Restoring confidence also reassures the French about the future of social security. Social security is a part of us. It is, as a beautiful formula wishes, the heritage of those who do not. If that is the case, then let us treat it as a real heritage, maintaining it, preserving it, renovating it. That's true for our health care system. The French are attached to it because they rightly trust their doctor and healthcare professionals, as well as the hospital, which remains a pole of French excellence. But they also note that the system is poorly coordinated, that the distribution between emergencies and consultations, between city care and hospital care is not optimal and that the exclusion of care and the increase in inequalities are not basically avoided. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LC group]] Prevention will be the cornerstone of the national health strategy to be discussed in the fall. Diseases that were thought to be eradicated are developing again in our territory; children die of measles today in France. In Pastor's homeland, this is not admissible. Next year, vaccines for early childhood that are unanimously recommended by health authorities will become mandatory. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] Again, in the fight against tobacco, we must take on courageous choices. Every year tobacco in France causes more than 800,000 deaths. It is the leading cause of preventable mortality, and daily smoking among adolescents is increasing. Doing nothing is excluded. We will gradually raise the price of the cigarette package to 10 euros, fighting mercilessly against trafficking that undermines this health policy as much as it weakens those who respect the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u8	Watch out for the border areas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u9	We will set up a health service for health-care students to enable them to intervene in schools and businesses for prevention actions. But warning isn't enough. We will also need to review how our health care system is organized. Our healthcare professionals are competent and dedicated, but their action is too often hampered by the rigidities of our structures, the administrative carcans, the operation in silo. It is therefore necessary to build care pathways by promoting the interconnection of health professionals and the flow of information for the benefit of the patient, by introducing new incentives and methods of remuneration, by measuring the quality of care and by making it known. The Social Security funding bill will reflect this ambition this year. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] Our health strategy must also ensure equal access to care, not only in law but especially in practice. The Minister of Health is preparing, for the month of September, a plan to combat medical deserts, in good intelligence with local authorities and stakeholders in the health sector. Telemedicine offers great opportunities in this area. We'll promote them. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LC group]] Finally, our health strategy will have to break the vicious circle of "renunciation of care." By the end of the quinquennium, all French will have access to free-of-charge offers for glasses, dental care and hearing aids. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] Restoring confidence means knowing that we will all be judged here on how we behave with the weakest: not only to change society's view of them, of disability, of the elderly, of the poorest, but also to recognize all that we can receive from them. As of 2018, we will re-align the disabled adult allowance and the minimum old age, we will simplify the procedures for the holders of social rights who often, out of despair or ignorance, no longer demand them. We will strengthen our efforts to combat poverty, with particular emphasis on families with young children. These financial efforts are necessary: they will not be sufficient. We must also recognize and support family, emotional and financial solidarity. Families are increasingly diverse, but their role remains central. The generation of my grandparents was the first to benefit from retirement. The generation of my parents is the first to benefit from retirement while having to assume part of the help to his own parents. The change of civilization is major. It does not seem to me to be sufficiently taken into account. The decline in the birth rate, for its part, real for two years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u10	Whose fault is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups and on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC and NG groups]] ...must alert us. We will therefore stop looking at families as simple tax adjustment variables. The Minister of Health and Solidarity will present measures to improve maternity leave and childcare solutions. This is also part of the great national cause of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u12	What about the family allowances?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups and on several benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] The inclusion of persons with disabilities will be one of the quinquennium's priorities. It is to a national mobilization that I call, under the leadership of the President of the Republic and under the leadership of the Secretary of State. Persons with disabilities, and those accompanying them, have the right to national solidarity. They need much more and they can bring us more. A school-based disabled child is not only a matter of money, nor even justice: it is a chance for all of his comrades. A company or territorial community that hires rather than pays a tax is a stronger and more motivated community of work. The means cannot be unlimited, but the energy we will put there will not be counted. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Restoring confidence also strengthens the link between the state and the territories. We are no longer at a time when the Republic, still poorly asserted, imagined its unity only at the cost of uniformity. The French-style gardens have their charm, but they do not lend themselves very much to the abundance of initiatives that the country needs and to which the communities are ready. As the President of the Republic reaffirmed yesterday, we want to give local freedoms all their strength. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC and LR groups]] [[Same movements]] The freedom to organise itself, first of all, by developing new communes or groups of departments, provided that such mergers are not contrary to the general interest. The freedom to exercise one's skills then: let's dare experiment! Let us not decree from Paris the end of the territorial mille-feuille, but let us encourage the territories to adapt, locally, their organization to tend wherever possible to only two levels of local government below the regional level. Why not allow, on a voluntary basis, some communities to exercise skills on behalf of another level, such as by delegation?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u15	[[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on a few benches of the LC group]] In the area of local finance, we will engage in necessary discussions with the local authorities, because if, of course, everyone must contribute to the effort to reorganise our public accounts, this must be done in dialogue and respect, and with the predictability necessary for any good management. It is in this context that we will begin a dialogue on the reform of the housing tax, which must contribute, by the end of the quinquennium, to the return of purchasing power to the vast majority of our citizens. I know that this reform is expected by the taxpayers, but feared by the elected ones. The housing tax is also necessary for local budgets as it is unfair in its calculation and evolution for taxpayers. Who can say otherwise? Improving the system for communities while restoring purchasing power for citizens is a goal that should bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u16	It's blurry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] [[Same movements]] Restoring confidence also means avoiding widening a gap between two Frances which some would like to oppose but which cannot live or succeed without the other: France of the globalized metropolises and peripheral France. This is the goal of the National Conference of Territories, the first meeting of which will be held in mid-July. We will propose a pact for communities, in order to accompany them in the ecological transition and in the digital transition, in particular by guaranteeing access to very high speed at the latest by 2022 throughout France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u18	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u19	But our government is not that of machines, it is first of all that of men. There are French people who don't have a GPS, no connected box, whose phone is used to phone and that's all. There are citizens who are crushed and ignored by this technical world. The gap is widening and it is not just generational: it is social and sometimes geographical. Our public services, the associative world, must accompany these digital revolutions. We'll help them. Similarly, protest votes have been cast, both in metropolitan France and overseas: they must be heard. There is also an identity vote, which has been expressed in Corsica in particular. One can be, as I am, intransigent on republican principles without being unaware of the diversity and aspirations for recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u20	"And at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u21	It is also valid in Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LC group]] France is all over the world, thanks to its overseas territories, on all continents and in all the world's oceans. Here's a wealth, here's a chance, here's a challenge too. The Overseas Foundations will provide an opportunity for the Government as a whole to listen to the expectations of each territory and to design together the convergence plans provided for in the Overseas Real Equality Programming Act. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups, as well as on some benches of the NG group]] As far as the future of New Caledonia is concerned, the present legislature will be that of the conclusion of the Nouméa Accord signed twenty years ago. If it is not seized by next May by the Congress of New Caledonia, the Government will organize, as provided for in the Constitution, the consultation for the accession to sovereignty, no later than November 2018. The State will play its full role as an actor and guarantor of this process to consolidate the common destiny set out in the preamble to the agreement. It is a personal commitment that I take here, honoured to take over the torch of Michel Rocard and a few others after him. [[Applause on several benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] Trust is all that brings us together. France is a nation, and a nation is neither a juxtaposition of territories nor an addition of communities, let alone a sum of individuals. A nation consists of adherence to values, a history, a geography. It is a culture that is self-sustaining and transmitted. Being French means recognizing values and sharing a culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u23	Honesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] [[Same movements]] It is to recognize that secularism is a requirement for public power, that of absolute neutrality with regard to cults. It is also a reminder that it is, for everyone in the territory of the Republic, a freedom – the freedom of individual conscience, the freedom to believe or not to believe, the freedom to worship or to follow none. The Government will not accept that this founding principle is attacked, challenged or instrumentalized. He will make him respect it without overtly, keeping himself from provoking, but with a firmness that rests on the simple idea that secularism is, in essence, a condition of what we are: France. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] What brings us together is also culture. It's our language, it's our heritage, it's what we share, it's what makes France admired and loved in the world. This is what hate-bearers hate, who have repeatedly attacked our country. And if they hate this culture and way of life so much, if they hate drawings, books, music and shows, they know that they are an inexhaustible source of reflection, emancipation and happiness. They know they're liberators. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] Let us not be mistaken: training in culture and creation from an early age makes it free. By familiarizing them with the long history of the arts, by making them discover places of culture, by teaching them to decipher the times and discover our heritage, we raise the soul of our children and strengthen the cohesion of our country. Together, the Ministers of National Education and Culture will make the project a common priority. Similarly, reading makes it free. Even more than under the golds of the palaces, the Republic lives in its libraries. We want to remain, perhaps once again, a nation of readers, inspired by the remarkable initiatives of many associations and local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u25	This is the action of the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u26	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and several benches in the LC group]] Access to works and creation makes free. Our times are changing the way works are distributed: it is both a chance and a challenge. Let us take advantage of this to facilitate the widest possible access to cultural property, including the creation of a "Culture Pass" for young people, as proposed by the President of the Republic. But let us also open the debate with the giant digital players, within the European framework, to ensure that artists have the means to live through their creation and to participate in the financing of this access to works. Ladies and gentlemen, France can regain confidence. She has, I'm sure, the means. I'm sure she's envious of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u27	No, not with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u28	She must also have the courage to do so. Courage: This is the second major axis that organizes the work of the Government. Let us be clear: it is not the courage of the Government, the majority or the Parliament, but the courage that we, the French, must collectively demonstrate in order to live up to the challenges. The French are brave. They have been confronted with terrorism – not only the police, gendarmes, the military or customs officers who fight against this threat and who are too often the targets: all the French. In the face of danger, they did not want to change their habits, let alone abandon their values. There is a form of calm but real courage in our country that we can be proud of. The threat is everywhere, diffuse. Not a month goes by without projects being vented or acts prevented. Let us now have a thought for the victims – more than 200 killed on our soil, hundreds of wounded – and for their loved ones who must learn to live with pain, pain and absence. [[Vif applause on all benches]] I want to pay tribute to all those whom we see – police officers, gendarmes, soldiers of Operation Sentinel – watching over our security every day, to those who fight in the theatres of external operations, in the Sahel or the Levant, and to all those whom we do not see and will never know, our soldiers of the shadows, of whom we can be proud. Many have fallen to the service of our freedom. I want to tell them, everyone, that we will give them the means to defend ourselves. As promised by the President of the Republic, a law on military programming will be adopted in 2018. It will bring the defence effort to 2% of GDP by 2025 and allow France to fight on all fronts. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups, as well as on some benches of the LR and GDR groups]] But I want to tell you straight away: there will be other attacks, other tragedies, other innocent lives broke. We'll never get used to it. We won't lower the guard. Like the French, we will face this threat with calm and cold determination. We will fight terrorism with the utmost severity, without denying what we are: a rule of law and, more importantly, the French Republic. It is a republic, ladies and gentlemen, which cannot live in a permanent state of emergency. That is why the President of the Republic has asked us to prepare for the exit of the state of emergency no later than 1 November next, with a bill strengthening the effectiveness of our legislative arsenal against terrorism, under the strict control of the judge. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] At the same time, the Minister of the Interior and the keeper of the seals will work together to reduce insecurity. In the spring of 2018, after experiments, they will jointly carry out a reform project based on simplified procedures, so that the security forces are freed from administrative complexity. Establishing a real security police on a daily basis is also a condition for restoring confidence. Courage is also to face the migration challenge. The pressure exerted at the borders, in the Alpes-Maritimes, in the Calaisis, in Mayotte, in French Guiana, which is also exercised in the very heart of the national territory, as in Paris, creates considerable tensions and grave dangers for public order. This pressure will not weaken. Conflicts and economic insecurity in the Middle East and Africa, climate risks, networks that thrive by exploiting misery and poverty: everything contributes to fuelling it. In the face of this situation, France has proved unable to fulfil its legal or moral obligations. Asylum seekers who are indeed covered by the Geneva Convention are waiting for a status to be granted for long months and in sometimes shameful conditions. The others, who are in fact economic migrants, are rarely distant when they are rejected. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LC group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Next week, the Government will present measures that will meet three requirements: a requirement of dignity for France to honour its tradition of receiving refugees, a requirement of efficiency to reduce the average time taken to investigate asylum applications from fourteen to six months and to obtain the effective removal of the rejected from the right of asylum, and a requirement of solidarity and responsibility. Together with our European partners, we will bring the reform of the European asylum system to a successful conclusion and take action towards the countries of origin and transit. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It is a matter, ladies and gentlemen, as I said a few days ago to the Prefects whom I met with the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, to see the world as it is without giving up what we are. Welcome: yes, of course. Help: Yes, of course. Subir: No, never. Courage also means looking at things in the face and preparing for the future. Let's talk about school. I am, through my personal history, a pure product of public school. Twice a teacher's son, I owe much of what I am to my masters, to their attention, to their perseverance and to their ability to inspire me. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group. – Murmurs and exclamations on various benches]] We all know the dedication of teachers, the passion that drives them and the role they play for our children. And yet, all the studies show this: we are very good at forming the very good ones, but we are digging up the inequalities and the average level of our students is not commensurate with our great country. Our system still leaves almost 100,000 unqualified young people out every year. We spend much less than our neighbours in primary school, where everything is played. We spend much more than other countries on high school, especially because our system is rigid and designed around the baccalaureate, but we drive 60% – 60%, ladies and gentlemen! – baccalaureate graduates with a license failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u29	Do you think that's not enough?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u30	Finally, an absolute scandal, bachelors, including among the most deserving, find themselves excluded by drawing lots from the academic fields they have chosen. Where's equality? Where's the merit? Where's the Republic? We can't accept it anymore. I will not go back to the measures already announced by the Minister of National Education for schools and colleges. They focus on the acquisition of basic knowledge, student support and institutional autonomy. They will be in effect as soon as next fall. [[Applause on many benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] As for the baccalaureate, we will make it change profoundly. A consultation will be launched as soon as next fall to tighten the final tests around a small number of subjects and define what will be subject to continuous control. We will finish before September 2018, for a full implementation of this reform for bac 2021. Our ambition is also strong for the professional sector. The link between the vocational school and the business world, through alternance or apprenticeship, must be tightened. The vocational school also needs to be better integrated into the short post-bac courses of higher technician patents – BTS – and professional licenses. Qualification diplomas at baccalaureate+1 can also be offered after the professional baccalaureate. Our major universities must also continue to evolve. With the support of research organizations, they must continue to gain autonomy, network and become closer to the economic world. It is in their laboratories that collective intelligence and economic growth of tomorrow are built. Investment efforts will not be relaxed. We need strong universities where training, research and innovation irrigate our culture and economy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] Our universities will experience a demographic shock that we must all rejoice at, but that is not neutral. Every year, an additional 40,000 students will be required. We do not have the right to orient entire generations in inappropriate and non-opportunistic formations. It's time to offer our high school students student success contracts that tell them the prerequisites for success in the field. We will do this as early as the start of 2018. It is also necessary to guarantee a real right to return to university throughout the career in order to complete and validate the experience acquired in academic circles. Our youth is thirsty for causes. This will not be addressed through growth rates or procedures. Youth wants to rise. In the last century, she had too many opportunities to shed her blood. The front is today social, environmental and global. He calls for the mobilization of youth not to fight but to build, share and pour out the fruit of his knowledge and enthusiasm. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] It is also in order to prepare our children for this world, which comes to this France that we want great and beautiful, fair and strong, that the Government will set up a new national service, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. The reflection on the forms that this service will take will be conducted before the end of 2017. Courage is also about finally renovating our social model. In our country, we are strongly and legitimately committed to equality – equality before the law, equality of rights. However, today we feel that this equality is being undermined. The labour code is the same for all, but the level of protection is not the same in large groups as in SMEs or for those who accumulate CSDs. We also know that in our time, everyone aspires to more freedom: freedom to choose his or her professional career, to change his or her profession, to create, to undertake, to reconcile his or her professional and personal life. The traditional categories that have structured our social life are being eroded – the frontier between wage-earning and self-employment, the role of law and contract, and the distribution of value. All this is deeply affected by the combined impact of globalization and the digital revolution. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] That is why we want to renovate our social model: to create truly effective protections, instead of guaranteeing them only on paper; so that it accompanies those who want to take a risk instead of aiming only at those who are already installed. On 6 June, I set out with the Minister of Labour and we shared with the social partners the roadmap for this social renewal. It has four points: to strengthen social dialogue in the company and in the branches, to restore purchasing power to the assets, to secure career paths and to make our pension system fairer and more readable. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] We want to move forward quickly, because the social emergency is strong, but we are moving forward without haste. We are still in the process of consultation with the social partners. This week will begin the time for parliamentary debate, with consideration of the enabling bill to strengthen social dialogue. At the end of the summer, the time for the decision will come when the orders are issued. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As early as October, we will start work on strengthening vocational training, opening up unemployment insurance to resignations and self-employed workers, and reshaping apprenticeships. Here too, we will have real discussions with the social partners and we will present a bill and an action plan in spring 2018. We will apply the same method to the renovation of our pension system to make it fairer and more transparent, so that a contributing euro opens up the same rights for all. We will take the time for diagnosis, consultation and negotiation and set the framework for reform at the end of 2018. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In the meantime, we will have made purchasing power available to employees: the abolition of wage contributions on health insurance and unemployment insurance, financed by a transfer to the CSG, will restore purchasing power to more than 20 million assets by 2018. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This represents, ladies and gentlemen, 250 euros per year at the level of the SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u31	In other words, the tax increase begins today!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] We will also increase the activity premium, because the message to the French is clear: work must pay. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] The courage, at last, is to face the truth about our financial situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u34	You knew her!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u35	As soon as I took office, I wanted to have a clear view of the situation in our public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u36	We had to ask Mr Macron, the former Minister of Economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u37	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] This is a serious observation: EUR 8 billion of unfunded expenditure. Our debt is at an unbearable level: 2147 billion euros. Every year, France spends €42 billion to repay its interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u38	You had to come to the assembly, you would have known!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u39	Forty-two billion is more than the entire budget we spend on our national defence. It's five times the budget of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u40	You're discovering America!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, only the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u42	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Even if it doesn't seem to be a problem for anyone, this debt puts us at the mercy of financial markets, whose fluctuations increasingly determine our future. If a new crisis were to occur, there would be no room for manoeuvre. If interest rates were to rise by one point, and they would increase one day, it would be the equivalent of the higher education budget that would go into smoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u43	What about tax evasion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] And yet, we continue to spend more than our revenues. I don't like to reason as a percentage of GDP – 2.8%, 3.2%... we anesthetized our compatriots by talking like accountants. But the truth is that when our German neighbours collect 100 euros in taxes and spend 98, we collect 117 and spend 125. Who can think that this situation is sustainable? Ladies and gentlemen, under the worried eyes of the French, we are dancing on a volcano that is growing stronger and stronger. Some, however, continue to deny the evidence. "How many times can a man turn his head pretending he doesn't see? The 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature could have been applied for...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u45	You're gonna catch a torticolis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] There is a French addiction to public spending. Like any addiction, it does not solve any problem that it is supposed to relieve and, like any addiction, it will take will and courage to detoxify itself. [[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, the French do not believe in simplistic solutions, whether it is the exit of the euro or the cancellation of the debt. They see that all our European partners have made an effort to reduce their spending after the financial crisis. All but us. They know that it is unworthy to ask their children to repay tomorrow what they themselves cannot afford today. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] My goal is to bring the deficit below 3% by 2017 and to drive our public finance strategy around three simple rules: lowering the tax burden by one point of GDP over five years, reducing public expenditure by three points of GDP over the same period and acting by giving visibility to the players. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] First of all, I want to reassure our fellow citizens: taxpayers will not be the variable for adjusting the budget. On the contrary, compulsory levies will fall by EUR 20 billion by 2022. France cannot remain a champion of both public expenditure and taxes. With regard to public spending, the Government's objective is ambitious: to ensure that it is stable, excluding inflation, in 2018 compared to 2017. Stable, that is, we will not spend more in 18 than in 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u47	[[Smile]] What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u48	All other States have done so for a long time, and have sometimes even reduced their expenditures. But this was only done once in France – and it was still a matter of eliminating the cyclical support mechanisms established during the crisis. [["Ah! » on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Let us tell the French the truth: in order to achieve these objectives in terms of public expenditure, we will have to act on three levers. First, public sector wage bill inflation, which accounts for a quarter of our public spending, will have to be stopped. Then, if we want to finance our priorities and not continue to impoverish the state, we will have to choose and question certain missions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u49	Stop the wars!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u50	...do what we have to do and stop doing what others do better than us. No ministry, no operator, no fiscal niche will be sanctified. Everywhere, we will drive away inefficient spending and the spread of credits. Finally, we will have to rethink the public policies that weigh on our assets without producing enough results. We spend twice as much on housing aid as our European neighbours, and the French still find it so difficult to live in. This difference between the level of expenditure and the weakness of the results, the French also see it in the employment and vocational training policy. Ladies and gentlemen, France is on the line, and no esquive will save us. I am aware of calling for effort and courage. To be heard, it will be necessary to act in a fair, transparent and lasting manner, giving visibility to public managers and the French. As of this week, the Minister of Public Action and Accounts will bring together all public administrations to draw a path and a global method of financial recovery. For its part, the Conference of the Territories will allow for closer consultation with local and regional authorities. From the start of the year, the Government will present both the 2018 budget and a public finance programming law that will cover the duration of the quinquennium. This path will have to bring social security back to balance by 2020. In the meantime, we will have to lay down new rules to prevent the long-term deficit in our social accounts. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Finally, we will have to maintain the balance of our pension system, while making it fairer and more readable. The new forecasts of the Pension Guidance Board urge us to do so, since they indicate that the return to balance, which is expected to take place in 2025, could not finally take place until 2040. To achieve these objectives, we must engage in a genuine transformation of the state and our public services. It will gradually be declined by ministry, in several waves, by spring 2018, involving users, agents and of course parliamentarians. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] Of course, we will "put the package" on digital transformation. Let us set ourselves a simple goal: to have digital public services of the same quality as those in the market sector. To do this, we will set up a digital platform and ask each jurisdiction to house its applications. A "Citizen Online Account" will be the new link between the French and their administrations. Some will say that it is too complicated, too ambitious, but Estonia, where I was last week with some of the members of the Government, has done so and it does not seem to me that Estonians are much more agile than we are or that we are much less agile than they are. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and some benches of the MODEM and LC groups]] This transformation of the action will also require increased trust and modernisation of the policy framework of civil servants. I want to tell them my pride in directing them, my respect and my gratitude. Restoring confidence, taking courageous decisions that the situation imposes, all this is necessary to regain the spirit of conquest to which the President of the Republic calls us. France, ladies and gentlemen, must once again be conquering. In the economic field, first. For too many years, in fact, we have resigned ourselves to the fact that France has been slowing down. We resign ourselves to mass unemployment. Our economy does not generate enough income, does not create enough jobs and does not give our children enough opportunity. [["Very fair! » on the benches of the LR group]] [["Yes! » on the same benches]] During the 2000s, we were the first country to receive foreign investment in continental Europe. Since 2010, we have been behind Germany. In terms of exports, we are the only major euro area countries whose external trade has a deficit balance in 2016, while it was a beneficiary until the beginning of the 2000s. Above all, the French economy is now growing structurally slower than the euro area average. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and several benches of the MODEM and LC groups]] That is not acceptable. With the reforms we are proposing, we want to become the first in terms of attractiveness, growth and job creation. [["Oh! » on the benches of the FI group]] An attractive economy is an economy where burdens do not hinder the dynamism of those who create wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u51	What about tax havens?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u52	Companies must regain the desire to settle and develop on our soil rather than elsewhere. I will announce in the next few days, with the Mayor of Paris and the President of the Île-de-France region, strong measures to improve the attractiveness of the Place de Paris. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and several benches of the MODEM group]] [[Same movements]] To encourage hiring, we will reduce the cost of the burden on work, especially for wages close to SMIC. The competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – will be transformed into a reduction in expenses, which will be zero at the level of the SMIC. This reform will enter into force on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u54	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The corporate tax rate will be reduced in stages from 33.3% today to 25% by 2022. It will thus converge towards the European average. The finance law for 2018 will specify its downward trajectory, precisely to give visibility to companies. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] We also want to ease the constraints on our entrepreneurs, in particular on the self-employed and SMEs. Regulatory simplification measures will be taken and we will begin in 2018 the abolition of the social system of the self-employed, which we will adhere to the general system. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] A conquering economy is also an economy that invests in the future. It is therefore necessary to reorient the savings of the French towards productive investment. The solidarity tax on wealth will be tightened around the property estate alone, in order to encourage investment in business growth. The reform will be passed this year in the 2018 Finance Act and will come into force in 2019. The reform of the taxation of assets will be complemented by the introduction of a single levy rate of around 30% on savings income. It's simple, efficient and competitive. This will bring France closer to the European average. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, all these tax measures will be voted on this year and committed in the next two years. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Taxation for business is important, but investing in sectors of the future is even more decisive. That is why we will launch a major EUR 50 billion investment plan in the areas of ecological transition, skills development, health, transport, agriculture and state modernisation. I dispatched Mr. Pisani-Ferry to design it and prepare for its deployment. Part of this investment will finance structural reforms in our economy and in the public sphere. We save time on the one hand, we invest in the future on the other. Investing in the future is also about supporting our industry. I was never impressed by those who dreamed of an industry without a factory, and never convinced by those who were considering a France without an industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u55	What about a President without a Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u56	But the reality is dark: behind the real successes of some, the deindustrialization of our productive fabric is accelerating. To straighten our heads and become conquerors again, we need to strengthen ourselves. Some of our industries, such as aeronautics, are already remarkably integrated and state-of-the-art, but we have many industrial companies that are often too small, often too isolated from the groups that would allow them to flourish. We therefore need to build a strong industrial network of SMEs and ETIs and to support their export development. It will also be up to us to make the greatest possible use of the opportunities opened up by the digital revolution, which must be an opportunity for all: for entrepreneurs who create start-ups, of course, but also for TPE-SMEs; for those born with the digital revolution as well as for those who are far away from it. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] The revolution of artificial intelligence is ahead of us; She's actually already here. It will affect all of us in all areas of production. Those who pretend to ignore him will be the first to be seized by his power. We must prepare for it to be a disruptive chance, not a destructive fatality. The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs will propose to me within three months a method of involving the best specialists in this field in the definition of a national strategy for artificial intelligence. Reconnecting with the spirit of conquest is also an enthusiastic embrace of the incredible challenge posed by the great transitions of the world, first and foremost by the ecological transition. Those who, by selfishness or unconsciousness, turn their backs on the Paris Climate Agreement show more than just an incomprehension of the world: they show that in essence they are afraid of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u57	And you invite them for July 14th!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] The ostrich is probably a friendly animal, ladies and gentlemen, but putting its head in the sand never prepared anyone to face the future. It is therefore up to us to prepare our country and our planet for this new era; not to undergo it, but to shape it. Everything has been written on the subject, from Jared Diamond's remarkable books to the striking testimonies of those who tirelessly travel the planet to awaken consciousness. Our relationship to resources needs to be profoundly changed. Our course will be simple to formulate, but ambitious and demanding: we want to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u59	It's already in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and some benches of the LC group]] That is why we will no longer issue new oil exploration permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u62	[[Same movements]] Gasoline diesel convergence will be achieved before the end of the mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u63	It's already planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u64	[[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] The rise of carbon taxation will be accelerated. We will divide the landfill waste by two and recycle 100% of the plastics throughout the country by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u66	[[Same movements]] We will start from the simple principle that it is always preferable to tax pollution rather than work and that before sanctioning and prohibiting it is better to encourage and adapt. The time of the very large transport infrastructure must give way to policies geared towards new modes of mobility combining new technologies, the public and private sectors, micro-enterprises as well as national champions. The foundations of mobility will combine users, operators, communities and NGOs, from the start, to direct investments in safer, daily travel, which de-enclave the territories. The mobility guidance law will also prepare for the opening up to competition that we must not fear, either in France or abroad. Our national transport operators are already international champions. Another area where a profound transition is needed is housing. To build new housing, a law in the autumn will simplify procedures, especially in the most dynamic employment areas. Construction permit procedures will be speeded up, and abusive remedies will be punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u67	Bravo! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] If necessary, and particularly in tense areas, town planning authorisations will be transferred from the municipalities to the intercommunal ones, so that decisions to build are taken at the level of the living areas. Within ten years, we also set ourselves the goal of eliminating thermal colanders, which are the main sources of energy waste, which affect the budgets of the most modest households. Being conquered in the face of the world's transformations, this is at last a principle that applies to agriculture. France has long been its agriculture. By the power of its production, by its mark on our geography, by the importance it occupies in our imagination and in our life, French agriculture has done much more than feed – and very well feed – the French. Today, it is faced with multiple transformations: pressure on agricultural land, unsatisfactory distribution of value between producers and distributors, foreign competition, the proliferation of standards, the need to preserve the environment, and the growing demand for new and quality products from consumers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and some benches of the MODEM and LC groups]] French farmers are not afraid to adapt. They want to live by their work, their land and their skills. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The general states of food will review value sharing in the agricultural model: it is not acceptable for farmers to be unable to pay a decent income and to live below the poverty line. It's not admissible, but it's common. It must also be our fight for tomorrow's common agricultural policy. These general states will need to strengthen our confidence in a healthier diet, think and build our future models, including by examining the issue of pesticides or endocrine disruptors without false appearances. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] Finally, you will allow the former mayor of Le Havre that I am to recall that conquering France, the one that François I wanted at the beginning of the French Renaissance, was oriented towards the sea. Conquering France, it must be a France that relies on its maritime power to create new jobs, especially in the fields of marine energy, and to capture ever more goods thanks to its large ports. A conquering France is finally a France that is listened to, respected and desired. I said that a few weeks ago: France is back, and especially in Europe. We owe it to the President of the Republic and we owe it to the French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u69	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and several benches in the LC group]] ... who sent two messages during the elections: they are attached to the European integration process and to the euro; and they want a more concrete Europe, less taunting and more protective. The European agenda of the current government is based on three ideas. First, every effort is made to reconcile the French with the European Union. Secondly, work for a Europe that protects, a Europe that will be able to rely on a better governed euro area, which will advance its defence policy, social convergence – and in particular the regulation of posted workers – and a trade policy of reciprocity, without naivety. Finally, to prepare the three negotiations crucial for the future of the Union: the redefinition of our project to twenty-seven, with Germany and with those of our partners who will want to move forward; the orderly negotiation of the exit of the United Kingdom as a prerequisite for the future relationship; the financial perspective for the future of the Union's policies after 2020. Finally, the President of the Republic recalled yesterday that we do not conceive of the recovery of our country without an international policy that restores France's status as a power of global influence. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] The spirit of conquest is also to be able to attract to us the intelligence of tomorrow, welcoming ever more students from all over the world to enrich and disseminate our techniques, our language, our identity. It is attracting ever more wealth thanks to our tourism offer, which is a major economic asset. It is to show the world who we are, organizing the great events during which the planet will look at us. Paris' bid for the 2024 Olympic Games mobilized France around sport and its values. The hosting of these Olympics will, I hope, offer a unique opportunity to strengthen the place of Paris and the place of France at the top of the world. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and some benches of the MODEM and LC groups]] Let's be conquerors! The evolution of the world gives France every chance, because this new world needs science and reason, order and law, technology and culture, dialogue and solidarity. And France is all that! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe in the omnipotence of politics, but I certainly do not believe in its impotence either. I told you at the beginning of my speech, and your assembly is proof of this by its composition: good public policies make it possible to change the lives of the French. It's long, it's slow, it's difficult, but, in the words of Simone Veil, I trust in our ability to progress. I know what political will can do when it has the support of national representation and the majority of the French people. I have that will. The whole government team shares it. She works with a method of efficiency, dialogue and collegiality. This method of work, the Government proposes it to the legislators that you are, adding respect and the requirement of truth. I have sat on these benches, I have said, and I am too attached to Parliament's role and prerogatives to go otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u71	The use of prescriptions is not very respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u72	Let us work together to ensure that at the end of this quinquennium, France has reached the course set by the President of the Republic and that it does not regret having chosen optimism and confidence. Let us work to ensure that unemployment is reduced, that rural areas continue to live, that neighbourhoods release their energies, including through free jobs, that expatriates return, that entrepreneurs innovate, invest and create jobs. Let's work for merit to be rewarded. Let's work to make our compatriots live better. [[Members of the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length.– Applause on the benches of the LC group]] None of the challenges of modernity must frighten us. The hope that has risen is the foundation of our responsibility. It is to this hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I ask you to give your confidence. And that is why, Mr. President, in accordance with the provisions of article 49-1 of our Constitution, I have the honour to take the responsibility of the Government for this general policy statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u73	Get up, Builders!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u74	The floor is now for the speakers of the groups, who will be able to respond to the Prime Minister. The first entry is Mr. Richard Ferrand, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens who attend this debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u76	And mutualists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u77	... the President of the Republic reserved for national representation his first major political expression since his election, in line with the Fifth Republic. It is a real sign of respect for us parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u78	[[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who leave the Chamber are invited to do so in complete discretion to allow the speaker to speak in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u79	The President of the Republic set yesterday the objective of his quinquennium, developed the principles of his action and indicated the course of action he intended to follow. The recent election results have shown us that the French no longer want to see and do the politics that has prevailed so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u80	The Socialists have left the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u81	The Prime Minister has shown that he shares this diagnosis. That is why it is up to us here to develop our principles of action, to build and to make live a more effective way of working here in the National Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and several benches of the MODEM group]] First and foremost, we must restore the link with our fellow citizens, who have given us a mandate of trust and demand, and strengthen the effectiveness of public action to finally achieve the results that the French want. It is this efficiency that is our responsibility. The President of the Republic presented yesterday the main features of the institutional reforms that we defended during our legislative campaign. With you, Prime Minister, and with your government, we must immediately take up the task. [[Applause on the benches of the REM groups and a few benches of the MODEM group]] Prime Minister, where the President drew the contours of the executive's action yesterday, you have just filled in the forms to give us a more complete picture. You just gave the method to carry meaning, tell the truth, work with all women and men of good will and get results quickly. You have told us about the concrete directions that will put our work on track, as well as the pace of reforms that will allow the country, in five years' time, to be more prosperous, more supportive and fairer. Yesterday, I told Congress that we had to get to work without delay and today, as conductor, you decline the missions that will respond to this collective desire to return from a conquering France. Already at work, we are well placed in the register of this efficiency that we are advocating. You have highlighted slogans that translate into tangible measures: restore confidence through a more independent, faster and effective justice...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u82	To do this, we need means!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the REM groups and several benches of the MODEM group]] ... and through a sustainable social security system, by making prevention a cornerstone of the national health strategy; free doctors from administrative burdens, build with them a path of care that guarantees equal access to all, in particular by fighting medical deserts and the cessation of treatment. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Restoring trust is also a reaffirmation of the link between the state and the territories by daring the experiment that makes it possible to adapt the norm to regional specificities; It is to abolish the housing tax, which is now unfair and obsolete for the vast majority of French – by obviously discussing with all the territories of metropolis and overseas. Prime Minister, you also spoke of courage. We will need it and you will find it in this House: courage to fight terrorism, to face the migration challenge with responsibility and generosity, courage to renew our social model that has become unequal, upset by globalization and the digital revolution, courage to restore our financial situation and thus our investment capacity – and therefore our independence. Finally, you said that you wanted a conquering France in the economic but also ecological, agricultural and digital fields, where so many opportunities are to be seized. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM groups and a few benches of the MODEM group]] These practical guidelines which you have proposed have now received an extremely warm welcome, which I know will be accompanied by full support. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no For of course, we will discuss means, explore solutions and methods, refine them, enrich them. But we do not differ as to the goal: to revive hope and the taste for the future, never give up social justice and give all our fellow citizens the pride of being French. That is why the majority will work with you and with your government, Prime Minister, with benevolence and demand...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u84	In mutual trust!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u85	... in a logic of co-construction, in the service of the nation. Co-constructing means that we find together, very upstream, the most suitable solutions, without presupposition and without the proposals of parliamentarians being seen as a sign of hostility, on the contrary. The challenges we face today are immense, and that is why we must address them collectively: Government and elected, but also every citizen. All the living forces of the nation must be at work. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The French and French have clearly expressed their fatigue with a certain way of thinking and making politics, a policy that sometimes drapes itself in fine principles and high values but does not produce enough results. "Kantism has pure hands, but it has no hands," said Charles Péguy! In this respect, our fellow citizens have been clear: it is no longer a question of the obligation of means but of the obligation of results, which they want to see quickly and in a tangible way. The French have also expressed their weariness towards a policy that has not been able to reinvent itself and which, for generations, reproduces a model that does not satisfy them, or even diverts them from public life, which is a suffering for democracy. Our fellow citizens have therefore mobilized to tell us their thirst for renewal but also their desire to be offered another paradigm: that of the future, of the possible, of the project, of the movement. Let us listen to them – and your words, Prime Minister, show that you have been able to do so. [[Same movements]] Like my colleagues, I am convinced that incantations, sterile debates, empty seats, rhetorical games, petitions of principle and other rains of truisms will undermine the credibility of those who use them. We will have to regain the added value of parliamentary work together: this applies to the majority as well as to oppositions. The French do not expect a majority panurgism from us, nor do they expect the overjoyed obstruction. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] By their vote, the French also testified that they no longer want half-measures, margin adjustments, refistolations, but they want a real and profound transformation of our economic and social system in order to return together to the path of progress. This transformation, ladies and gentlemen, let us embrace it! Finally, over the past few months, our fellow citizens have shown their willingness to be involved in the construction of public policies that directly affect them and have shown how strong they can be in proposing to find collective solutions to everyday problems. Then let's consult them! Prime Minister, you have just explained how you intend to implement the President of the Republic's plan and conduct the policy of the nation. Taking concrete action, giving new inspiration to the projects of our fellow citizens is the only antidote to "degagism" as well as to cold conservatism. Neither offer a perspective. If I understand the springs – sometimes the exasperation, sometimes the fear of the future – it is only the relevance and the effects of our work that, tomorrow, can be the alternative to all the impasses. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length]] That is why we wanted, first and foremost, in this House itself, an unprecedented renewal of faces. You have noticed this, Prime Minister, and I thank you for it: our group finally gives a fair place to women, who make up 49% of our Members!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u86	What about the presidency of the Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u87	You're not presidents, ladies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u88	Our group welcomes 91% of new Members, the majority of whom start their first elected term. With an average of 45 years, 14 years younger than the average under the previous legislature, our Members bring a new breath, new ideas...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u89	Is work a new idea?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and several benches of the MODEM group]] ...and the practice of a world that, in a few decades, has undergone radical transformations. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] But to be new, in politics, is first of all to have lived a variety of paths, of which you have mentioned several of the most singular and bold, Prime Minister. It is also to benefit from a multitude of talents and professional experiences that give the members of our majority a real knowledge of the expectations of our fellow citizens. But, as on every bench, the members of our majority are above all committed citizens, sharing values and strong in a common project. They are all ready to roll up the sleeves to move the country forward, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u91	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Our collective intelligence must make it possible to put France back on the track of progress for all. This new energy that will bring you, Prime Minister, you and your government also have it in your majority and you can count on it. Keeping the link with the "field", as they say, is at the centre of the Republic's project and will always remain at the heart of our action. The members of the majority are part of this proximity approach by keeping a privileged link with those who have given them their mandate. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] That is why our Members, in addition to the legislative work in this House, will be leading and providing regular workshops for citizens on their territory, in connection with legislative activity. We will also continue to consult regularly with citizens using all the tools at our disposal. This approach will allow both questions, ideas, criticism...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u93	Our fellow citizens have been consulted about Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport! You have to listen to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] ... and will also be the way to make public debate live outside electoral deadlines because, to quote Pierre Mendès France, "democracy is only effective if it exists everywhere and at all times." In our daily work, let us stop chapel postures and quarrels and put our ideas to the test of reality to ensure that they will produce the desired results. Let us take into account a number of the principles that were set out yesterday. Efficiency, first of all: legislating less, in order to legislate better and thus be able to devote more time to the basic texts. Let us divide our time differently to give more control and evaluation of public policies. This approach is founded to ensure a real effect on our action and to avoid the proliferation of texts. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] The proposal of the President of the Republic to reduce the number of members of the three constitutional assemblies by one third is also consistent with this, and the challenge is to enhance the role of national representation. Other measures have been put forward, but these proposals, because of their relevance, will need to be studied with particular attention. We will do this work, but we will not limit ourselves to it, because imagination also has its place here in the National Assembly! The introduction of a proportion ratio for parliamentary elections, combined with a time limit on the cumulation of mandates, will allow the plurality of opinions to be better represented and will increase access to elected office. But renewal is not an end in itself. The challenge is to respond to the demand of the French for a tangible transformation of our model. And this mission is without waiting for us to begin to fulfil it. This is how an extraordinary session begins today, whose agenda reflects both the changes that we want to make and our willingness to carry out the projects that have been carried out by the President of the Republic and which the Prime Minister has set out in his government programme. First of all, it is a question of restoring confidence. Prime Minister, you have made this one of the key words of your speech, and we will accompany you in this process. Justice reform will be paramount, as strong, reliable, effective and independent justice is a sine qua non for trust. The five-year law on the programming of the means of justice, which will be presented to us in 2018, will have to enable us to meet this need. Another project: the essential revitalization of our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u95	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u96	Prime Minister, you have told us how the Government intends to restore our financial situation, and how it intends to achieve this: to reduce the tax burden on our citizens, to reduce public spending, which is much higher in our country than in most other European countries, and to give visibility, in the medium term, to all actors. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] This issue is absolutely decisive for the smooth running of our economy. It must allow us to find room for manoeuvre to invest, develop and renovate our infrastructure, to accompany those who need it most and to regain our credibility vis-à-vis our European partners – a condition absolutely necessary for the relaunch of the European project. To do this, we need to focus our spending on our priorities, where public action has real added value, and rethink our public policies. As parliamentarians, we will have a major role to play in this process. And it starts right now. The review of the proposed Regulations, which sets out the final amount of government expenditures and revenues, will provide an opportunity to identify all untapped sources of efficiency and potential savings. With its annexes, and in particular the annual performance report, we will endeavour to measure precisely the performance of public expenditure, by assessing the use of budgetary appropriations in relation to the objectives set. We will then conduct the public finance policy debate, during which your government will present us with a report on the development of the national economy and the direction of public finances. This will allow us to clarify the Government's strategy for spending reductions and prepare for the review of the Finance Bill in the fall. Finally, we will record this desire to restore the French financial situation in the long term, with a law on public finance programming. To ensure the safety of French and French people, our action will take place in several stages. The Government would first like to extend the state of emergency on the eve of the attacks of 13 November 2015 until 1 November 2015. We share that decision. The military programming law, which will be submitted to us in 2018, will finally have to give our country the means to defend itself perfectly, by increasing the defence effort to 2% of GDP. The fight against unemployment and the renewal of our social model is another fundamental axis. Unable to ensure equality between citizens and businesses, our social model is now inadequate in the face of the upheavals in our economy. The draft enabling legislation to be adopted by ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue will lay the foundation for this project. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] During the presidential and legislative campaigns, we were extremely clear and transparent about the use of ordinances. From the beginning, we have explained that we would use it to tackle without delay the mass unemployment that has been undermining our country for thirty years. The ordinances will enable us to legislate quickly and efficiently, while ensuring the necessary consultation with employee representatives as well as those in the business world. To act quickly: that is what the French and French expect us to do. We will therefore look at this text to enable your government, Prime Minister, to make orders to strengthen and simplify social dialogue, both in the company and in the industry, and to secure labour relations, both for employers and for employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u97	We could have done it by law!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u98	It will also allow the Government to change the penitential account to make it more appropriate, applicable and therefore more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u99	Who voted it? You didn't have to adopt him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This law echoes the diptych we have been wearing for months: release and protect. The aim is to free companies from constraints that penalise their activity, increase their competitiveness by giving them more flexibility, and enable them to hire more easily...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u101	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u102	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... but always by protecting employees, improving the functioning of social dialogue and their working conditions, and strengthening their rights. We must build new collective solidarity, as well as new individual security, which is attached to the journey, not to the statutes. We will also need to strengthen vocational training and apprenticeship and restore purchasing power to employees by lowering contributions. These measures will need to be brought forward by the upcoming legislation in the spring of 2018. Another clear message that we can and must hear from the recent elections is that there is a divide between the territories. Let us not ignore these inequalities, which undermine national cohesion. Housing, city and land-use policies must achieve tangible results, which demonstrate to our citizens that no territory of the Republic is left behind. We need to discuss more with our communities, in a concerted way, and allow them to experiment; We need to understand the specificities of each of them. The Conference of Territories and the Overseas Foundations will collectively provide us with the opportunity. Prime Minister, French and French have clearly expressed their concerns, expectations and expectations. It is now up to you, in the front line, to respond to their aspirations. I know that you will do so at the head of a competent and committed government, also joint, and diverse by the professional and political origins of its members, symbol of the transcendence of the divisions that we call our wishes to bring together in efficiency. Let us know, Prime Minister, that you will find with you the majority group, which I am proud to chair, to give life to this programme and to build, together, the practical application of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u103	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u104	Prime Minister, you're Normand, I'm Breton.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u105	There are more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u106	What about Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u107	We both know what navigating means, whether the sea is calm, restless, or the storm rumbles. Our course is clear, it was set yesterday by the President of the Republic. You have just drawn the road ahead of us to ensure that our long-term commitment is successful. Your crew is ready to face the increasing winds, and perhaps the opposite currents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u108	Troubled waters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u109	Our hope is not that of a long, quiet river; Our hope joins that of the explorers of a new world, whom we want to conquer and address in the service of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u110	Now you're making too much of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u111	It's something other than the captain of the pedalo...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u112	[[Members of the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length]] Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, "France knows a future, but it does not see a future," said Pierre Nora. It is up to us to open the way for a better future for our country. Prime Minister, it is with this will to the body that we will vote for confidence in your government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u113	Mr Christian Jacob, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, it is time for me to welcome your appointment and congratulate you – because I remember that the day before your appointment, I was still your group chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u115	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u116	[[Same movements]] These congratulations would certainly have been more spontaneous, more vivid, more moved too, if you had not left your political family under these conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u117	You betrayed her!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u118	[[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] [["Yes! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] But other times, other manners! I wanted to give you this truth, Prime Minister, because it will remain a real wound to me. I hope, but I have little illusions, that when you look in the ice, you may think of those of your former colleagues whose appointment has contributed to the loss. You have been appointed to assure a parliamentary majority to the President of the Republic, and perhaps even – the bad languages say so – to break the French right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u119	She didn't need that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u120	You dreamed of having your parliamentary group: it does not exist. You have little more than a small part of a small group – small, by the way, from every point of view. As for the second objective, to break the French right, it also failed. We are here, and indeed there, proud to embody a strong, free and demanding Republican opposition, determined not to leave you the monopoly in a sterile and dangerous confrontation with the far left and the far right. [["Yes! and applause on the benches of the LR group]] François Hollande's quinquennium has considerably weakened and fractured our country, with 600,000 more job seekers and a never-reverse unemployment curve, a debt that has increased by 325 billion euros, and taxes that have hit our fellow citizens hard – the middle classes in particular, but also businesses. The fundamental political question is simple: are those who participated in the outgoing majority accountable for this balance sheet? We think so. We believe that Mr Valls is an accountant for this balance sheet. We believe, even if he tried to move a few lines and escaped in time, that Mr. Macron also bears this responsibility. This filiation cannot be swept away as if a blank page opened. The budgetary slippage and insinuity that the Court of Auditors has just sanctioned are striking examples, and Mr Macron, who was in office until September 2016, will not make anyone believe that he is not also an accountant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u121	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Just as you will not make anyone believe, Prime Minister, that you yourself were not aware of this when our parliamentary group based its appeals before the Constitutional Council precisely on budgetary slippage and insinuity. Perhaps you were absent from the band at that time? Over the past five years, we have fought François Hollande's policy, because it was contrary to most of the foundations of our commitments. We imposed a determined opposition on him, but whenever the nation's best interests were at stake, we were at the meeting. In the tragic context of the fight against terrorism, we have never shunned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u124	We have passed all the bills that have strengthened our intelligence capabilities and capabilities to deal with terrorism, as well as all requests to extend the state of emergency. And it was often our votes that led to a majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the REM group]] We begin this legislature in the same spirit: whenever the general interest is at stake, we will take on our responsibilities, without a state of soul and without a back-thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u125	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u126	We have our sensitivities, but France and the Republic often transcend our partisan commitments. It is the very nature of the great nations to find themselves on the essentials. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is also the prerogative of the great democracies to keep the debate alive in the event of disagreement. We will be this republican opposition, free, independent and responsible; This vigilant opposition, in particular against the tax machining of households, against the deterioration of public finances, against the loss of State authority, against judicial laxism, against the drifts of communalism that undermine the deepest foundations of the Republic, against, of course, the abandonment of rural territories or the programmed financial asphyxiation of territorial authorities, which would bring a fatal blow to decentralization. A few words, Prime Minister, about our commitments – it is probably not pointless to refresh your memory, even if it is a programmatic platform that should not normally be foreign to you. I understand that it was a world that passed, but some of us have resisted and are still present in today's world... Given the state in which our country is located, we consider that the urgency is to return purchasing power to the French, and first of all to those who were the tax victims of the last quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u128	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] In our view, this involves a 10% reduction in income tax and the restoration of the challenge of working overtime, and certainly not, Prime Minister, by the increase in the CSG, which is a serious threat to pensioners in France – all pensioners, not just those who receive a pension of more than 1200 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u129	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u130	All their income, all their investments will be affected by this unlikely 20% increase in the CSG. Pensioners in agriculture, crafts and commerce will be the biggest losers of this purge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u131	The officials, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u132	Their pensions are often barely more than 500 euros. They have often saved their entire lives to build up a small capital to live. Overtaxing this small capital would be as serious a mistake as removing the challenge of working overtime decided by Mr. Ayrault.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u133	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u134	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We also warn you about another issue of taxation, the levy at source. It will be of great complexity for companies that have, objectively, more to do than collect the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u135	The Prime Minister didn't even mention it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u136	[[Same movements]] You asked for it to be postponed for a year. It's a first step, but take the second step: delete it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u137	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u138	For, in reality, it is the Trojan horse that will bring the end of marital quotients and family quotients, which would bring a new blow to our family policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Our family policy needs positive signs, signs of gathering, and not confrontations between us. I have not heard anything about the return to universality of family allowances, one of the most serious achievements of the National Council of Resistance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the NG and GDR groups]] As for your proposed removal of the housing tax, we invite you, too, to think twice about it. To eliminate it for 80% of tax households is to weaken the civic and fiscal link between our compatriots and their communes. It is to create the conditions for a transfer of expenses to taxpayers who own their property and, inevitably, to encourage a new surge in property taxes. While the mayors have just been excluded from the National Assembly, I hope that in this house they will remain defenders of the communes. If our country stands still, it is often thanks to the mayors of France, especially the rural mayors who hold their territories abandoned by the state at arm's length. Don't weaken them any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u140	Do not weaken the departments in a flight ahead of the metropolitan area. I understand that President Macron loved big metropolises, but France is not, will never be a juxtaposition of dehumanized metropolises that would leave no room for balanced cities and rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u141	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u142	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, our rural territories also need a dynamic, powerful and export-oriented agriculture. Our agriculture expects fewer standards, less regulation, less burdens. It aspires to be recognized, supported and, let's say, loved by all members of your government, especially by your minister of ecology, who has a small margin of progress in this matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u143	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u144	Like you, we believe that we need to boost businesses and create wealth, added value and employment. For France to remain a great industrial power, it is necessary to put work back at the heart of our social and economic model. It goes through the end of the 35 hours. For the rest, the return of the El Khomri-Valls law in the form of ordinances is an important fact. We have always been concerned about the major issues raised in the report. Don't worry, we're not going to stop defending and promoting these great subjects when you seem determined to act. On the other hand, using orders at the very beginning of a legislature, on such an important subject, when you have a majority of 350 Members, it raises a serious question about the real strength of your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u145	Ah! There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u146	For if the debate does not take place here and now, it may take place either in the street or in a few months at the time of the vote on the ratification law. You are therefore taking a major risk, Prime Minister, by imposing silence in the ranks of your majority and by failing to respect an assembly which, I repeat, is ready for progress and convergence of view on this issue. You have also decided, Prime Minister, to extend the state of emergency. We agree with this decision because we have always considered that it is up to the executive and to it alone to assess the situation. We know that the threat is alive, and of course we owe the French maximum protection. However, this position does not constitute a blank text for a law of general scope which would in reality establish a state of emergency which would not assume its name and which, this time, would violate individual freedoms and public freedoms. In substance, we hope that your Government will finally hear our proposals to win the war of usury against terrorism. More than ever, we believe that the most dangerous S-filed persons should be placed in a preventive manner under enhanced physical and electronic supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u148	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the coming debates, we will once again propose to you the prohibition of the return to national territory of binationals who have visited areas of external operations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] Prime Minister, fighting our soldiers, fighting the French army is deciding to permanently exclude itself from the national community. We call for the automatic expulsion of foreigners present in France who have links with terrorist movements. Finally, we will propose the dissolution of all movements that claim to be Salafism and radical Islamism, as well as associations that advocate hatred, violence and discrimination against women.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u149	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u150	On this essential issue of equality between men and women, should it still be tolerated that, on the territory of the Republic, women are banned from the city at certain times and in certain neighbourhoods? This movement is developing in the very heart of Paris. This is a serious breach of the Republican pact that unites us around the great law of 1905. We were surprised by the deafening silence of the Government on this matter. Not blowing on embers is one thing, Prime Minister. Putting a knee down against those who reject republican secularism is another! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We must not knee down against offenders who, it must be said, are ruining the lives of our compatriots. There was an urgent need to put an end to criminal disarmament, which had been systematically implemented by Ms. Taubira.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u151	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u152	You thought I was gonna forget it! Your parliamentary contract does not contain anything about automatic floor sentences that are designed to severely punish repeat offenders. Nor have we heard anything about the abolition of automatic reductions in sentences, which amounts to leaving in the nature of the repeat offenders, small neighborhood caïds who deny our policemen and gendarmes, or on the lowering of the criminal majority to 16 years, in a society in which some minors, increasingly violent, have absolutely nothing to do with those of 1945. Nor have we been convinced by your determination to effectively combat illegal immigration. It is time for Parliament to set immigration quotas that correspond to our real ability to receive dignity and to integrate quickly. In at least two places in the metropolis, in Calais and Menton – but you have quoted others that are located overseas – France, it must be said, has become a sieve. We call for the creation of reinforced immigration control zones, with systematic identification of migrants. We must also put an end to the call for air created by an overly generous social model that we no longer have the means to pay. Access to family allowances and housing allowances must be subject to a significant period of payment of social contributions. State medical aid represents an expenditure of more than EUR 1 billion. This is a budgetary scandal that must stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u153	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u154	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The AME has become a bottomless and uncontrolled well. Prime Minister, you know the French tragedy of the last thirty years: we have collectively maintained mass unemployment, especially among young people under the age of 25; 25% of our young people are unemployed, four times more than in Germany. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This obviously puts into question our systems of initial and continuing training. This also raises the priority question of the place to be reserved for technical and vocational education. France needs a mental revolution in this area. It needs to be said at last: that the single college has failed and that learning at the age of 14 is essential to reconnect with a professional education course worthy of this name. Your Minister of National Education has given positive signs over the last few weeks, breaking with the ideology of Mrs Vallaud-Belkacem, particularly on the balance sheets, on the teaching of ancient languages, on the maintenance of boarding schools of excellence, on the relaxation of school rhythms. But it still lacks the courage to commit itself to a great ambition for learning – I heard you say the word, but I did not feel such ambition – and to profoundly reform a system that produces 120,000 dropouts every year. Admit that in the name of the dogma of the single college, we have led to a terrifying waste! Prime Minister, you should be responsible for determining and conducting the policy of the nation. But what the President of the Republic did and said yesterday in Versailles shows that he decided, in a way, to hold you very short. This practice disturbs us, not only because it is a humiliation for the Prime Minister, but also because the President, by breaking the codes, plays dangerously with the spirit and letter of the Constitution. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] The behaviour of the parliamentary majority is also worrying. We were held the endless talk about the emergence of a new, fresh and spring world that would replace the old world folded on itself, dusty and suspicious. But in this old world, the positions of responsibility of our assembly have never been used for the recycling of ministers who have resigned! In this old world, the Prime Minister did not intrigued for propagandists of the majority to become docile opponents and submitted in exchange for posts, seats or seats! In this old world, the Speaker of the Assembly was elected for the duration of the legislature, in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution! We consider that respecting the presidency of the Assembly and the parliamentary institution is our respect for ourselves and the French that we represent: this house is indeed that of the nation. She's ours and will be what we do with her. If, like me, you consider that the separation of powers still makes sense and that parliamentary sovereignty is a non-negotiable achievement of the French Revolution, it is up to us, as Members, to decide what we want it to embody. I solemnly say to you that we will not be a legislative adventure that would weaken Parliament and deprive parliamentarians of the rights to exercise their mandate freely. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If the law of moralization of public life is to be the first episode of this adventure, we will say no, as the Third State said no to the King! [[Exclaims on the LR benches]] If the next step is to combine the introduction of proportional representation with a reduction in the number of Members, we will say: pay attention. This would have the effect of weakening our regime and criminalizing the link between MPs and citizens with constituencies with more than 250,000 inhabitants. The representation of rural areas would be in grave danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u155	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u156	We will also pay attention to the question of parliamentary immunity. This immunity is inseparable from our status, not since 1958, but since the French Revolution, when Mirabeau laid down the intangible principle of the protection of deputies against authoritarian power. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All republican constitutions since 1791 have ensured this protection, which also ensures our independence. Modern France needs a strong and respected Parliament: it needs independent, free and protected parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u157	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u158	Mr Prime Minister, you will not build anything lasting without Parliament, without all the parliamentarians, those of your majority, who are supposed to support you, but also those of the opposition who will make the democratic debate live. [[Members of the LR Group stand up and applaud at length]] We will be these Members both as a force for proposals and as the driving force behind a strong opposition to its convictions and firm on its foundation of values. An opposition, Prime Minister, who will judge you on your actions. An opposition that will never advance masked and therefore will not vote for confidence in your government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u159	The next speaker is Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u160	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the election of the President of the Republic and the assembly that we constitute, the French have chosen a genuine alternation and a change in the political landscape that we have known for decades. This upheaval is not the result of chance, but the direct result of years of failure, of unfulfilled promises, of inability to carry out the profound reforms that the country expected. Finally, this choice obliges us all. Prime Minister, the government you are leading is fully in line with this desire to recompose our political life, to which you have taken all your part by overcoming sterile, artificial and ultimately ineffective divisions. We sit here with the modesty of those who know – for having witnessed – the failures of the past, and with the firm ambition, Prime Minister, of those who intend to break with the French evil unnecessary alternations, missed appointments and disappointed hopes. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the REM group]] One word, at this stage, from the political recomposition to work: I heard with a little astonishment yesterday, at Congress, some of our parliamentary colleagues doubt its effectiveness or its readability. Exceeding the old divides – these are not hollow words – is not to give up differences or weaken debates. It is to bring together those who, on the major essential issues, have long thought the same thing and that artificial bipolarization had so far separated and prevented them from working together. It is on the contrary, in the end, to bring clarity and to constitute the majority and the oppositions around the real lines of fracture that exist between us. So, President Olivier Faure, I do not know if the policy that will be pursued will be on the right and on the left: you will call it as you wish, according to the old patterns that you take back and in which the French no longer recognize. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the REM group]] This policy is in any case at the service of France and its recovery: it is indeed that, and only that, which matters. There is a clear course, drawn from an observation and ambitions shared by the majority and by the government, there is a contract with the nation. From this point of view, referring to recent political history, this is a novelty. Prime Minister, the first task of your government and this new assembly is to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens. This confidence will be restored under two conditions. The first is to change our practices and our relationship to democracy. It is the full meaning of our support for the bill for confidence in our democratic life that will be debated in the near future and to which we are very committed. This goes hand in hand with the institutional reform referred to yesterday by the President of the Republic: better representativeness of the great currents of political life, reduction of the number of parliamentarians, and, as a corollary, a strengthening of their resources because we should not give in to the demagogy and inquisitorial atmosphere of the moment, improvement of procedures. All this goes in the right direction. The second condition concerns the method and state of mind both of our parliamentary action and of your government, Prime Minister, with a new alliance of law and contract, dialogue and respect, the rejection of anathema. In short, it is a strategy of overcoming the antagonisms we knew. But restoring confidence is not just about institutions or methods. Indeed, restoring confidence also means believing in our economy, in our businesses and in their ability to ensure the prosperity of our country and our fellow citizens. It is also to reconcile France with its entrepreneurs and to look at them other than agreed and, let's say, so caricatural; It is to combine competitiveness and social justice by stressing the indivisibility of economic and social issues. It is necessary to free activity by allowing those who can and want to undertake to do so, to give them autonomy, freedom and even the opportunity to fail because it is at that price that they are also offered the opportunity to succeed. That is why we will support you in considering the draft law on strengthening social dialogue as well as all the reforms which, in the coming months, will consolidate this text in order to resolutely combat unemployment. Beyond device postures, let's try, without dogmatism or ideology, to see what works, what doesn't work or what doesn't work anymore. Restoring confidence also means restoring the balance of our public accounts. This must be done with regard to our financiers, of course, with our European partners, but perhaps in the first place, and in substance, with regard to future generations, because it is their confidence. How would we indeed find the slightest political credit to the younger generations if they were offered only the repayment of debts for which they were not held accountable as the only prospect? This debt, like the ecological debt, is terrible because, if it is not absolved, it will deprive those who will succeed us of any ability to act and, ultimately, of all hope – the ecological debt depriving them of the possibility of living. Solving the issue of debt is therefore not an accounting question: first and foremost, it is a moral issue vis-à-vis the French and especially the youngest of them. In line with our old commitments, we will therefore support all the initiatives you have, Prime Minister, announced to restore order and coherence in our public finances. We will have to do so while keeping on course the commitments made to the French, in particular on purchasing power and public investment, for example in the field of energy transition. Prime Minister, I thank you for having reaffirmed the course of reforms earlier. Restoring confidence also means addressing the French in all the territories. Elected, like many of us, from a territory that is both urban and rural, I assume this complementarity and am proud of it. I do not oppose both and warn against the temptation to do so. Let us make sure that two Frances are not built that their functioning would make irreconcilable: a France fully part of globalization and a rural France, but also an urban one, which would be confined to the role of spectator of the world. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] For these territories, the public authorities, in forms that we will have to renew, will have to exercise themselves fully. One cannot imagine enough the terrible feeling of downgrading that people in a village or neighbourhood feel when they see their last doctor leaving, their school closing or their last business disappear. At the same time, we need to give each territory its pride by giving it a role, I was going to say a vocation, in the production of national wealth. The identity of a territory lies in its economic identity, the know-how of its workers, all its employees and all its entrepreneurs. The potential offered by the technologies of the future, by the energy and food challenges and by the emergence of a new economy are opportunities to be seized if we have a genuine territorial economic strategy and a coherent policy of spatial planning. Restoring confidence is finally restoring and reviving meaning to our European destiny. To talk about Europe is indeed, as you recalled, Prime Minister, to talk about the destiny of France. We do not underestimate the imperfections of the European system, in particular the question of its democratic legitimacy, which must be strengthened. If Europe is to regain its credibility with the people, it must take up the main issues that justify a European strategy and policy. Major industrial policies, common security, climate, European defence, economic and social convergence: these are the issues to be placed on the European agenda as a matter of urgency. Prime Minister, I would have wanted to talk to you about education and culture, because the society that we have to build comes first of all from this. I would also like to talk to you about health and solidarity, because this is both a challenge and a duty to the most fragile. We will have the opportunity, during the parliamentary work, to find ourselves on these subjects, but know that our group will be fully active and invested in these essential themes. [[Vif applause on the benches of the MODEM group, whose members rise, and of the REM group]] Prime Minister, the confidence that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is about to vote in your government is strong. She's loyal, she's demanding, so many challenges. It is with all the hopes that the French have for our country to regain pride and optimism: it is also, in a way, on their behalf that we will vote in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u161	Mr Stéphane Demilly spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u162	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, first of all, Mr Prime Minister, on behalf of my group, to extend to you our sincere congratulations on your appointment as Prime Minister of France. We wish you every success in the interests of our country and our fellow citizens. My remarks will be based on the three strong ideas that led to the creation of our parliamentary group composed of elected representatives from the right and the centre: firstly, the desire to be constructive, secondly, the freedom to think, finally, the discourse of the truth. Of all the political acts, the most complete is indeed the first one to build. Progress cannot be hemiplegic: let us therefore try to build together a present of which we will be proud tomorrow. Benjamin Disraeli said: "No government can be strong for a long time without a formidable opposition." This opposition must therefore be respected – something that is sometimes forgotten when there is a very large majority – but it must also, in order to be beneficial to the country, be intelligent. I think as a counter-example to those who have always opposed pension reforms. Where would we be today if we had listened to them? I am also thinking, of course, of those who have opposed the Veil law on abortion with rare violence in this House. With hindsight, it is clear that systematic opposition, arrogant and complacent only in relations of force, is absurd and even dangerous: nothing is in fact more rare than discernment in negation. Always being negative, suspicious and contemptuous is not and has never been an engine of progress! The proponents of an opposition of principle should also meditate on this thought, according to which all truth generally passes three stages: it is ridiculed first, then the object of a strong opposition, and finally, is considered to have always been an obvious one. In our parliamentary group, which wants to be a laboratory for the new policy, we have the privilege, particularly rare, of not being, or rather no longer, locked in partisan carcans. [[Applause on the benches of the LC, REM and MODEM groups]] [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Besides, beyond a parliamentary group, what unites us among the Constructive is a state of mind: that of not reasoning in an archaic way in a world that is moving quickly. We're not ideologues. On the basis of our local experiences, which have become scarcer in the Chamber, we are pragmatic, who consider that a good, fair and effective idea, wherever it comes from, has no smell, and that it simply needs to be implemented! We will therefore fully assume our role as parliamentarians, independently, without bias and without a priori. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that many of you will join us in this virtuous way, which contributes to the modernisation and dynamism of our political life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u163	It won't hold!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u164	Parliament must be a light for intelligence; We must reenchant the political debate there. In connection with what has just been said, the second characteristic of our group is freedom of thought. We have decided to free ourselves from partisan and sterile political games, and we will pronounce ourselves according to our free will, our conscience and our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u165	That's to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] A political elected official must be able to rise above the Manichean facilities in order to define his conduct in complete serenity. In hindsight, we have learned that we must be wary of the professionals of the truth, since the quantity of certainties is often a good indicator of the level of ignorance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u167	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u168	One lesson that we must draw from the strong message that the French have given us is that too often political parties are late on ideas. This freedom to think and to say will allow us to accompany without restraint your stated will to accelerate the ecological and energy transition. We will take part in this essential debate by formulating ambitious and credible proposals, and by closely following the construction of large infrastructures whose economic and environmental interest has been repeatedly demonstrated. You will also be able to count on us to support the reforms of our education system and all measures aimed at increasing equal opportunities for our young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u169	Above all, we should make it simpler!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u170	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] This freedom to think and say will make us look critically at your desire to reform labour law by ordinances. If we, too, believe that labour law needs to be simplified quickly and that business agreements should be strengthened and the place of the branches redefined, it is nevertheless difficult for us to accept this without the possibility for national representation to debate it calmly. That is why we ask you to involve the various parliamentary groups in the drafting of the orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u171	Fun!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u172	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] This freedom to think and say will lead us to strongly oppose the plan to increase the widespread social contribution, which, as it stands, would lead to the penalisation of pensioners and liberal professions. Similarly, we consider that the proposed removal of the housing tax may lead to even more asphyxiation of thousands of municipalities already subject by the former government to an unprecedented budgetary diet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u173	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u175	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] Deeply attached to the decentralisation and autonomy of local and regional authorities, we cannot accept this additional dependence on the State. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LC group]] We shall therefore be free to speak, free from our positions, free from our votes. This freedom that we claim will take shape today, as some of us in our group will vote for confidence, while others – the majority – will abstain. Between rabelese panurgism and Pavlovian criticism, our group, as Jean-Louis Borloo said in this same place five years ago, will be the lucid, independent and demanding vigil of this legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u176	[[Smile]] Long live the IDU!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u177	The will to be constructive; freedom of thought; Finally, the third strong value of our parliamentary group: the will for truth. The requirement of truth underlies a requirement of knowledge. The laws of the Republic cannot be decided without the necessary knowledge. Political elected officials have a duty to know, understand and tell the truth to their fellow citizens, as long as they have been elected to represent them. The key to recovery will first be a shared observation. Pierre Mendès France said it very well: "The citizen must understand that above particular interests, even very respectable, the general interest must always dominate: it is civicism". For our group, this requirement of truth, and shared truth, is fundamental. I am thinking in particular of the financial situation of our country, which the Court of Auditors has just reminded us of the sad reality – or rather, forgive this pleonasm, the real reality! We invite you to take strong steps to bring our government deficit down to 3%, in line with our European commitments, starting in 2017. Our debt is so astronomical that we would end up thinking that it is only theoretical and virtual. Yet we must look at the truth in the face, because hiding it, masking it or transvesting it means taking the risk, if it is discovered, of a violent resentment in the population, which has had the legitimate feeling of having been infantilized and deceived. The truth is also that our future will be European or not. We need to reinvent Europe, to reshape the European ideal which, to repeat its words, reconciled Simone Veil with the 20th century – how can we not think of this great lady today? Europe must be made a shield against global threats, and against the internal threat of an exacerbated nationalism that would lead to intellectual and economic decline. The truth is also our neglected neighbourhoods, with the virtual disappearance of the city's policy, it is an abyssed agriculture, with the unacceptable unpaid of the common agricultural policy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] ...it is a rural despicable, humiliated and abandoned: abandoned financially, abandoned medically, abandoned by public services, by telephone and internet operators; a rurality that can only be heard by demonstrating democratically in the extreme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u181	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LC group]] Let us not forget, as Francisco de Goya reminded us, that the sleep of reason causes monsters! And as denouncing without proposing is of no interest, we submit to you a simple idea: the creation of a National Agency for Rural Renewal, in order to take on the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u182	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u183	The truth is the necessary digital revolution in our society: there is a real risk of loss of economic, security and societal sovereignty in the face of foreign giants, particularly Americans. [[Applause on several benches in the LC group]] The truth is our beautiful overseas, which contains 80% of our biodiversity and accounts for 97% of our marine space. This overseas country will be confronted, in the coming weeks, with far-reaching decisions – I am thinking in particular of New Caledonia. When Kant was asked whether one was already living in the era of the lights, a truly enlightened time, he replied: "No, but in an era of enlightenment. " This must be our vocation, parliamentarians: to start over every day the work of building a better society, preserving the legacy of the past, showing innovation, realism, listening, critical sense and discernment. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LC group]] Discernment: We love this word in politics! And that is what we will apply, with our group, in our group; It will be an enlightened opposition group, with constructive added value, a free group, attached to the truth, a group, finally, which will have only one objective: to win France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u184	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Faure, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u185	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Assembly has been deeply renewed. In the name of the very slight anteriority that distinguishes me, I wish all of you welcome. Some may have mocked the novitiate on one side of this assembly; They were wrong. They were wrong, first of all because for many of you, this novitiate hides a very long experience of political life...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u186	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u187	... and, above all, because we are all here by the will of the people, thus endowed with identical legitimacy, independent of our previous service states.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the LR group]] To put it differently, the desire for change has taken away many women and men who still have much to say and bring to our country. It's up to you to show you'll be able to replace them with dignity! In May, then in June, the French chose to give legitimacy to the new power, either by their vote, by displaying their consent, or by their abstention, by not opposing it a priori. So far, the French have followed you without fully following you; They walked, rather than they started. Your majority is the largest in the history of the Fifth Republic, but your electoral base is also the weakest. The French wish to give their chance to this new experience, but their scepticism is as strong as their adherence. Perhaps within them they hear the voice of Arletty, in The Children of Paradise, blowing them that "newness is old as the world"? But the very essence of any new majority is to think that everything begins with it: it is the enthusiasm of the first days, the blind fergue of the beginnings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u190	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u191	Finally, what did you say to our compatriots? That you wanted to oppose the faded myths of the old world the rhythms, the color of a new world whose keys you would have; that there would be something fruitful in this confrontation; that the cleavage between old and modern was now the only relevant and that it had to replace the outdated one between the left and the right; There would be nothing more between a progressive hypercentre and dangerous peripheries. But progressism belongs to no one: neither to you nor to me. Everyone can claim it; Its contours are as blurred as those of modernity. What is progress? What's modern? Ecological thinking has come to question these notions usefully. Newness is not always progress; She's wearing a piece of artifice and illusion. Let us therefore guard against the forward flight which would replace the alternation between the left and the right an alternation between the new and the old, for there will come a day when the new will take the appearance of the monster and where it will be in the name of secular values that we will have to repel it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u193	What matters to our fellow citizens is work, which gives everyone dignity, it is the recognition of their contribution to the creation of wealth, it is what frees them from the burdens of everyday life, it is the protection of the quality of life, the preservation of their health, the guarantee of their safety, the possibility of emancipating themselves from their condition, a real right to the future for their children. In these matters, there is a record, in which the President of the Republic took part: the absolute priority given to education, the desire to open up access to care for all through the generalised paying third party, the possibility of training throughout his life with rights opened in a personal account of activity, the possibility of retaining the acquired rights to unemployment insurance when one finds a new job, the right to retirement at sixty years for long careers, the recognition of the length of work to set the retirement age, the fight against global warming, with the international success of the COP21, the courageous commitment of our troops against terrorism. This assessment, I am not afraid to say that I am proud of it, and I am not afraid to say that in 2012 the margin rates of French companies, which were among the lowest in Europe, had to be restored, because that is how investment, research, development, the renewal of the productive apparatus and training are financed. The left is not archaism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u194	That's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u195	Of course, we have not succeeded in everything. We haven't always been far enough. We were not always able to explain what we were doing, or why we were doing it. We have divided a lot; As always, we first looked at what had not been done before we welcomed what had been done. However, from the new European rules of banking supervision to the taxation of capital at the same level as labour, to the law of banking separation, we have never stopped moving forward. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] In recalling these unknown or forgotten decisions, I hope I have made myself better aware of the meaning we give to the word "progress". Yesterday, the President of the Republic pronounced the following sentence: "He sleeps in each of us a cynical. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, cynicism would be to return, in the name of a new world, to these beautiful advances! Cynicism also consists in overplaying, as you have just done, Prime Minister, the very classic blow of the deficit balance. I am not going back to the action of a majority which you supported and which was not exemplary in this respect. This game would bring nothing to the debate. But preparing your renunciations and justifying your clear cuts by our balance sheet is a matter of mystification. During the presidential campaign, I heard Emmanuel Macron, who was still only a candidate, claim the work of illustrious figures who marked our country. It would only be fair for you, Prime Minister, to claim his record at the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u197	But let's talk about the future! Prime Minister, you are seeking the confidence of this House. First of all, I want to tell you my personal esteem. It's real, it's old, but it's not political. So you started. As I know you, a man of conviction and a man of the right – which is not incompatible –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u198	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u199	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] ...I think you did not accept Matignon for the simple pleasure of adding your name to that of your predecessors. So what will be your mark? The Republic on the move wants to be ambidextrated, but, for the moment, it has been mostly ambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u200	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u201	With what hand will you write the policy of the nation that you now have the responsibility for? You want to transform the school, too! But in the light of your first announcements, will progress for all be at the rendezvous? It is questionable when concerns are raised, not on the principle of duplication of classes of preparatory courses, but on its modalities, dangerously improvised. Why didn't you start by evaluating before you evolved? Yesterday, however, we understood that this was the method that the President of the Republic wanted to use, and his speech cannot be a communication without tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u202	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u203	You want to change the organization of work, too! To do this, you want to strengthen unemployment compensation for all and open up new rights to vocational training: we too! The world of work is ready for dialogue. You have entered into a consultation, very well! But why the hell should she stop at the gates of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u205	You decree the urgency of the enabling law to make orders, which will contain only deregulation measures and will not create any new protection. With you, the urgency is flexibility. Security can wait. Instead of this truncated debate, it would have been possible to organise a genuine parliamentary debate which would make it possible to simplify without destroying and encourage mobility by the establishment of new professional security. [[Applause on several benches in the NG group]] You want to increase the net wages of employees, too! But you plan to offset this increase by a decrease in the purchasing power of pensioners, who will pay more CSG from 1200 euros of pension, and simultaneously exempt shareholders from capital tax. On the contrary, you could use the creativity of your services to put in place a degressive CSG, which would apply to all income and pensions. You want to partially remove the unjust tax that is the housing tax, so do we! But your will has visibly waned and you have just returned this measure to 2022, even though it had to compensate for the increase in the CSG for modest pensioners. We will propose an income tax reform that will open a tax credit for the 80% of taxpayers you wanted to exempt from housing tax. This is possible immediately, without penalizing local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u207	[["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] You want to deepen democracy, too! The President of the Republic outlined this yesterday: on the independence of justice, we will be there; on the new role entrusted to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, we share the will of the President of the Republic; on the non-accumulation of mandates over time, we had put forward this proposal ourselves. However, we call for the discernment of everyone on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians elected by majority vote. We will come back to that later, and I am not now deepening this question. [[Exclaims on FI benches and on some LR benches]] Prime Minister, we share many of your goals, but we do not necessarily put the same decisions behind the same words. The search for compromise is not reprehensible; What is, is to suggest that there is only one possible answer, that of a unique new thought. The compromise is a meeting of different, opposing points of view, which agree on a provisional response taking into account a situation, a balance of forces, needs or reality. This majority shows its willingness to participate in the renewal of political life; We want to accept its presage and not condemn it by principle, by reflex or by sectarianism. We will judge in return and on hand the will to put an end to the corporalized majorities and the locked debates. We will then see if your proclamations are effective or are only the modern translation of a dead language. That is why the New Left Group has chosen to abstain. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] This abstention says our freedom, that of approving you as the one to fight you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u208	I call on all speakers to respect the speaking times set by the Conference of Presidents. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u209	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, how far and how far will our patience continue to be abused? France insoubted with interest and concentration was waiting for your speech, Prime Minister, the only one that counts, since it will be followed by a solemn vote, without which you would not be able to govern. And then, we had two long postscripts of the President of the Republic's speech for two hours. Why not? But I only have ten minutes. [[Rires on several benches]] What remains of the very appearance of a parliamentary debate under such conditions? I want to say that to pay tribute to you, your speech deserves more than ten minutes of comment, but neither do I have time to compliment you. I had planned to convince; I'm delaying the project, because I have to just inform and denounce. We will not vote for the support of the Government, as you knew.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u210	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u211	We will be the only group of which none of the members will vote for this support, I would like to point out. But we do not want to be just your opposition, we present ourselves as the alternative to the world you represent. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There's got to be one, because the ground will soon steal under your feet. In a country with a long democratic tradition and in a nation as political as France, when 55% of the people strike the vote for the general elections – and this also concerns us – acting as you do is to fire a firework in a powder box! For you believe that you dominate the situation by seeking to pass in force on essential subjects, which affect the very heart of the nation and its existence. You are entering the permanent coup-de-force regime, not to urgently change the liberal revenues that have led us to the present disaster, but rather to expand its scope without limitation. This European average line that you keep mentioning is the line of flotation below which the munitions that flow the nation, destroy its state and its public services, strangle Greece and condemn the underdevelopment of the entire Old Continent. We didn't elect Mrs. Merkel!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u213	[[Applause on the same benches]] We have nothing to do with a policy of supply and contraction of demand. First of all, the country is rich in its demands. Coup de force, you give yourself eight days in this assembly to dispose by means of the ordinances of the right to overthrow all the social public order of our country and its hierarchy of norms. Eight days to abolish the results of a hundred years of social struggles and compromises. From May 1936 to May 1968, through the National Council of the Resistance, you want to dislocate everything in two votes. We call this a social coup. And we parliamentarians would not have the right to touch a single line or a single comma of those texts which, for us, are so many things? Who asked you to do so, if not the MEDEF, an organisation without representativeness that grabs the word of all employers, yet as diverse as companies? The people of the trades, the one who alone creates all the wealth of the homeland, aspires to something else: visibility in working life, security, good pay, decent pensions. He calls for the end of the scandal of the 9 million people reduced to poverty in the fifth power of the world, of the 565 deaths per year in the workplace, of the 1200 people who die every year of occupational diseases,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u214	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u215	... of the 31000 homeless children, of the 2000 dead in the street and of the 2.5 million illiterate in the great and splendid France. How is this possible? Isn't this the emergency emergency? Again, this time against the democratic order of the country: you are thinking of disrupting the entire regime of individual freedoms in less than a month. You have decided to transpose into ordinary law the provisions of the state of emergency. The President of the Republic himself said that the country should be freed from the constraints of this state of emergency. But then why bring him into the ordinary law? We are promised that this will be reserved for terrorists; But your predecessors said the same! However, 80 per cent of the effective measures of deprivation of liberty taken in this context have been directed against trade unionists and environmental activists. Why do you think he can go another way from now on? We tell you again: the permanent state of emergency enshrined in the ordinary law is the victory of the enemy, both because he takes the whole society hostage by his violence, but also because he injects this retreat of freedoms which constitutes the heart of his project and the opposite of ours on all benches. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some LR benches]] Strongly in sight when the President of the Republic threatens the assemblies with a plebiscite, if they refuse to vote the reduction in the number of parliamentarians he wants – without explaining to us why, by the way. Fewer MPs, would that be more democracy? Oh, right? What? Is that too many seats in Ariège? There were five under the old regime! I warn you against anti-parliamentary demagogy and the instillation of widespread mistrust of elected officials. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and the GDR Group]] If you want to moralize the political life of the country, punish the corrupters, hunt the tax fraudsters [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... limit the indecent wages of the CAC 40 champions, prohibit slippers, prohibit that you can be at the same time counsel of a large company and representative of the nation...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u217	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...bref, limit in every possible way the power of money and give the people themselves the power to revoke their elected ones when they deem it necessary. The revocative referendum is the terrible and simple way to establish democracy at all points under the control of the people. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Last but not least, when you mention the ecological emergency only to keep quiet about the emergencies that still require immediate decisions. I say this with all possible solemnity, which not only targets you, Prime Minister, but calls on colleagues on all sides to think: nuclear is dangerous. Our plants, which have operated beautifully – and we thank those who have made them live so far and salute their work – arrive at the end of their lives and will become dangerous. Statistically, they become so. Therefore, Prime Minister, it is now necessary to decide on the closure of the nineteen reactors that will arrive at the end of their lives in the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u218	Irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u219	It is necessary, and within the same time, to move on to renewable energies, which will enable us, as France has the technical and intellectual means, to move on to something other than nuclear energy without breaking down. Finally, I am very sorry to know that you have stopped the fight against the definitions of endocrine disruptors agreed by the European Commission. France was honouring itself by resisting. Now is the time for me to ask you: do you intend to put an end to the GMOs and pesticides that threaten and endanger not only the food of human beings, but, as you know, their very generation? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] These are the steps that should be taken and announced now! And finally, I would refer to a measure that never has the right to a parliamentary forum: when, as a measure of civilization, will we say that we are willing to forcefully punish the martyrdom of animals in a nation as developed and civilized as ours? I only have ten minutes and I intend to stick to it. Prime Minister, we would eventually believe that you have come here to read the footnotes of the President of the Republic. Since he has invoked against us Sieyes and Mirabeau – you have again quoted them – I will recall that they were gathered only before the King.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u220	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u221	This is not our case, and it won't be for a long time, believe me. And there will be a lot of people to oppose it, if it is necessary. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] But, first of all, let us remember that Capet, on 14 July 1789, had written for any comment in his private diary: nothing. Beware of this, Prime Minister. Beware of the little things. [[Vif applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. Mrs. and Mr. Members of the FI Group stand up and brandish the Labour Code]] In Sieyès, we will take the will to make the third state the whole national assembly. One way or another, we are the outpost. In Mirabeau, we will borrow the idea that, being here by the will of the people, the people we meet at the stations and "that is nothing" have a reply that I would like, Prime Minister, that you would like to make known to the President of the Republic. The "nothings " tell him: "We may be nothing to you, but tomorrow we will be everything. "
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u222	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u223	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is the wind of freshness which is supposed to dust and modernise our old institutions. According to your lapsus, Prime Minister, the year of the 2000 shortages, blood and tears came: a humiliated Parliament, an opposition forced to step in front of the bulldozer set in motion, optimising, for the benefit of some, the institutions of a Fifth Republic that fell into disuse: the verticality of power is expected to be maximum. Your speech, Prime Minister, has merely clarified to us the great presidential purpose. No surprises, then. And no more dreams. The popular classes and the middle classes can already measure that this project is not for them, but for those who overlook them, blind them and, sometimes, despise them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This neoliberal and technocratic project, so far removed from the real country, does not, in our view, aim to deal with the daily problems of the people: to pay its bills at the end of the month – which, with the increase of the CSG, will be more and more difficult for pensioners – to find a doctor, to enrol its children in a class of less than thirty pupils, to train close to home, including outside the metropolises, to move by train without daily hazards, to escape dismissals, to live from agricultural production, fishing, to work as a craftsman or merchant without being penalized by unfair competition or deregulated work, not to be assigned to its large-scale fund on Sundays, not to be treated as illiterate when one is a worker, to be simply respected, including in his difficulties of life. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not nothing when we fail, except to confuse being and having it. Your project signifies the abandonment of our social protection model. It marks the advent of precarization and the uberization of work. The harder the life will be, and you'd have to get used to it. As for the elites, it seems that they rub their hands. This project renounces the republican dream and its central part, that of the social republic. It will gradually blur the equality and fraternity of the frontons of our city hotels. Never in our recent history had the wings of the executive overshadowed the legislative power so much. Although the President of the Republic has a comfortable majority, the latter, which is not proportional to the legitimacy of the votes obtained, does not give him sufficient legitimacy to implement his programme without discussion. In the situation of economic, political and social crisis which we know, to liquidate part of employees' rights, without any real debate, without the possibility of amendments, by ordinances, is therefore madness. In fact, I doubt, Prime Minister, that in your heart this method, that you suffer more than you choose, makes you dream. On the contrary, in this chamber, we want to give to see, to hear the real country, what it lives, what it suffers, what it dreams, what it hopes for, an amplified, albeit singular, reality in the overseas regions. In addition, we will be asking for social justice, recognition of specificities and respect for identities for these territories during the overseas sieges. Prime Minister, you may accuse us of drawing a black portrait of this social reality that the majority does not want to see. And yet, it is necessary. At the same time, there is tremendous energy in our people, who can no longer stifle under the yoke of the law of the strongest and money. We will strive to release him. We want to talk to you, to start with, about industry, crafts, and more broadly about the world of work and employment. A recent INSEE note, based on a questionnaire addressed to business leaders – see, Prime Minister, that we are not sectarians – shows that the main obstacle to the development of activity and employment does not lie in the Labour Code – it comes at the end of the list of concerns of these bosses. In our constituencies, there are similar accounts: in the real economy, investment, training, the know-how of employees, orders, whose communal public order is an essential vector, and the support of banks that play on the level of employment. It is not the competition between companies, the atomisation of social relations, the liquidation of labour law, or what makes the living democracy the sap of the commune. Prime Minister, I could talk to you about industrial renewal, particularly in Dieppe, at Alpine's; the maintenance of the glass industry flagship in the Bresle valley; or the new electrolysis equipment manufacturer, Kem One, at the Martigues site, in Pierre Dharréville's constituency. Here, the know-how of employees, the ability to control the manoeuvres of vulture funds through labour law or the tenacity of employees were the driving forces behind the development of employment. But that, Prime Minister, your majority seems to ignore it. Better, you ask the workers' world to abandon the trade unionism that protects for a trade unionism imagined in the salons. And this world should give up justice, including the victims of asbestos, a subject that is dear to me. We want to talk to you about agriculture in distress, which is struggling in a deregulated model, where the producer's selling price does not even cover production costs anymore. What do you promise this peasant world? Transatlantic treaties, such as the comprehensive economic and trade agreement – CETA – that will be as destructive for farmers as for our environment. We want to talk to you about artisanal fishing, ignored by the public authorities, the total lack of planning of the uses of the maritime space that threatens it. We want to talk to you about the French ports, including the port of Le Havre, which you know well, Prime Minister. In the absence of a national strategy and state investment, these ports must wait, disarmed, for port squares in northern Europe, benefiting from the Seine-Escaut axis, to cut their dikes. We want to talk to you about local public services, which, in the countryside or in the cities, fall as in Gravelotte, and for which the objective of reducing public spending by 3% makes us fear the worst, desertification that will fuel the feeling of abandonment, relegation, withdrawal and anger. We want to talk to you about these young people who have left school without a qualification or a job. We want to talk to you about the difficulty of opening up training linked to the needs of employment areas outside metropolitan areas. We want to talk to you about the territorial divides that are widening with, on the one hand, catch-all metropolises and on the other, medium-sized cities and rural communes in difficulty. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Prime Minister, we also want to talk to you about the school, to warn you about the anger that is rising in the face of the increase in class closures in our cities and in our countryside, to tell you about these classes to thirty-two students on five levels at the next school year, to satisfy in a hurry the promise of President Macron to reduce to twelve the number of pupils of preparatory courses in the areas of the priority education network REP+. Your management of the new school rhythms, Prime Minister, without any assessment and where you are defying your responsibilities on mayors, is always a little more shaken by the uniqueness of the public service of education, which we hold to.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u225	Finally, we want to talk to you about the hospital, whose presence in the territory is reduced by whole sections. At the same time, the population is aging and community health needs are increasing. However, the regional health agencies, continuing in activity pricing, continue to tighten the screw and close local hospitals. In this context, we want to talk to you about the distress of the hospital community, whose only dream is to continue to provide care and help with care. In the face of this real France, what does the President of the Republic propose to us, Mr Prime Minister? A reduction in the role of the State, the protective State, the strategist State, the planning State, the producing State, which has already been particularly weakened by ten years of a policy of allegiance to the Brussels injunctions. In our view, the providential commitment to organize a conference of territories makes sense only if it is rid of austerity and if it is accompanied in each of our territories by a moratorium on our local public services. From this point of view, we are deeply concerned about your announcement to assassinate the municipality or the department, to choose from. Thanks to the skilful conduct of the catch-all party, a policy that brings together all those who have liberalism as their common point, the state of grace, including on these benches, still seems to be relevant. It won't last. Very quickly, the mist of illusions will dissipate on the wall of money. Five years ago, finance was designated as the enemy. Today, with the increase of the CSG, the reduction of the ISF and the reduction of the corporate tax, you decided to hug it. With the austerity measures announced for the most vulnerable, you have tried to give signs to the richest. It's not for us to whine, but to show what you don't want to see. And you, ladies and gentlemen, who sometimes take your first steps in politics here, will quickly have this reality in your hands. Soon you will understand that liberalism solves nothing. There are contradictions in society that require one to take sides. Ours is unambiguous: the bias of people against the bias of money. Ours is unambiguous: the absolute commitment against tax evasion, which costs France 80 billion euros a year. [[Members of the GDR Group stand up and applaud]] Prime Minister, you want to free businesses. We want to free men and work from the grip of finance. That is why the Communist deputies will not vote for confidence in the Government. As for the overseas Members, in accordance with our group's spirit, they will retain their full freedom to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u226	The last speaker on the list is Mr Jacques Bompard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u227	Mr President, Prime Minister, as my political experience grows, I am constantly strengthened in the idea that good power is the one that conforms to reality. This is a more complex requirement than it seems when the century of ideologies, ready-to-think and partisan interests completely distance us from the common good. The reality today is the crisis of all the constituent organs of our society. Man is attacked in his definition, the family in its integrity, the society in its unity, the nation in its homogeneity and justice. Sometimes, Prime Minister, you came up with these findings in your speech. However, you never face them in their essence or their roots. Man first, therefore anthropology, is in crisis. Full respect for his dignity is not guaranteed: symbolic dignity, harming with the commodification of bodies and births; identity dignity with the victims of the great move of the make-up world in happy days of massive migration; economic dignity with the refusal of the restoration of the right to work for all and therefore of the end of the society of unemployment; Finally, when we know that the promises of a major investment plan for palliative care will not be kept. This aporia in the definition of man in his duties and in his rights can only reinforce the hazards for families. With the Taubira law and the modulation of family allowances, the Dutch government had already done them a great deal of harm. With the increase in CSG and the opening of medically assisted reproduction – PMA – to same-sex couples, you will worsen the situation. The French families are demanding more freedom: educational freedom, first of all, and I welcome Mr Blanquer's first initiatives; economic freedom, then, in particular by introducing fiscal security and will-freedom, which so frighten the left; Finally, by preferring the real end of the 35 hours to the ever-changing negotiations with social partners, who often represent technocracy more than France at work. Finally, the families of France demand that the state leave them alone, sovereign in their homes, away from the desires of lobbies, supranational authorities and pseudo-scientific experiences. This desire for tranquillity is linked to a need for security. Security in our streets, fighting the explosion of rapes, violence against people and the enslavement of social relations. Security by re-establishing the rule of law through the enforcement of sentences, the imprisonment of convicted persons and the return to order. We owe this awareness to the families of France before they are completely disinterested in the decisions of the State. The real thing is that French society is more filled with "those who are nothing" than copies of American entrepreneurs. A peripheral France is confronted with the exodus in order to flee uninhabitable or unaffordable metropolises, which suffer the most complete abandonment. Medical deserts, thousand territorial leaves, excessive standards, persecution of farmers: all these French are real victims of de facto apartheid. Our society is in crisis because it is forbidden to react. In this regard, the major replacement at work in our country is the most crucial political issue. However, there is nothing in your statement to suggest an awareness of this. Worse, the humanist outsides of the movement On the move let the doubt of a connivance with the interests of mass immigration lie: France's reduction to a multicultural society, state support for the illegals who make up most of the waves of migrants, France's renunciation from the hustle and bustle of civilizations – since for your half-god, French culture would not exist! I have already repeatedly alerted your ministers to the ongoing tragedies: chaos in migrant reception areas, insecurity in the vicinity of places of placement, the expansion of extremist parties such as Mr Erdogan's AKP in our territory. It is the whole nation that is put at risk by these betrayals. And the whole nation fears that, at Hermes and Jupiter, we preferred Eole, the god of the wind. France is in danger in a multipolar world and a defence ministry is announced whose first quality would be to obey Bercy wisely. France is at risk in the face of Islamist terrorism, and none calls for the exclusion of the Muslim Brotherhood, Salafists and Gulf money from our society. France is at risk because of the blocking of the labour market, and we are still pretending that the company agreements will suffice to heal the wounds of the socialist management of the country, of which the Court of Auditors, in the face of dreams, has again emphasized the wanderings. While France no longer has confidence in its elites, you support the non-cumulation of mandates and the proportional one, which will make the depersonalization of mandates and the party regime worse. France doesn't need dreams. France, Prime Minister, does not want to be Apple, a company that communicates on the slavery of its poorest and immigrants from all countries. She wants to be herself, the nation of unity and justice! You refuse to see that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u228	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u229	I would like to thank the speakers who spoke and all the parliamentarians they represented or spoke on that occasion. [[Smile]] Organised after a general policy statement, this debate – that is the whole meaning of exercise – is both political and general, very political – it is never too much! –, very general – it can happen that we are too much! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Clearly, there can be no completeness in the policy statement, nor in the interventions that follow it, nor, of course, in the answers that I will try to give you. This can be frustrating. But there will be specific debates on bills and bills in this chamber, and there will be debates outside these walls. Indeed, one of the elements of the method on which we want to base ourselves in producing the standards and defining the rules that should allow us to move forward is precisely to associate phases of discussion outside this Assembly with phases of deliberation within this Assembly. Thus, the foundations of the overseas, the national conference of territories, the general states of food and agriculture, the general states of accounts of the nation will be moments when the actors – trade union representatives, leaders of associations, associations of elected officials – will discuss with the government, but also among themselves, what seems to be the best solutions and how we can make intelligent decisions. I think this is a good method. She's not of considerable originality, but she's proven herself! Then, ladies and gentlemen, you will deliberate in this House. Everyone will then have time – fixed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – to exchange, and that is very good. As an answer, no doubt incomplete, I shall make a few remarks. The first concerns the choice of using ordinances to transform the labour code. Some have expressed their opposition. If one can easily understand the position of some, other reactions may surprise. That MM. Mélenchon and Jumel are opposed to the ordinances in no way abnormal: since 1958, this instrument has always seemed to them to undermine Parliament's ability to discuss the general norm of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u230	You too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u231	Basically, even if we disagree, I pay tribute to your consistency. Coming from others, this is more surprising. Because, if I remember correctly, the ordinances have always been assumed by the Gaullist family...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u232	And by the socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u233	... as a useful tool for preparing the standard, to speed up the production of precise and useful standards in the country. General de Gaulle himself, in circumstances already old but of which everyone remembers, has resorted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u234	The world is changing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u235	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In the proposals made by some of the candidates from a political family – of which, Mr. Jacob, you were right to point out that she was mine – there were appeals to the ordinances. We have the right not to agree with this instrument, but I would point out that these orders do not arrive at the end of the race, without anyone being notified. They were mentioned, and discussed in principle, before the presidential election by the candidate; They were discussed and discussed after the presidential election and before the general elections. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] A clear majority emerged from these discussions. Oh! I'm not saying that the whole majority results from the choice to use prescriptions... But finally, if everyone here believes in the commitments and the fact that it is necessary to keep those made before and after the election, then no one can contest the use of this instrument, at least be surprised.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u236	The explanation is laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u237	The method we will use to move forward with these orders does not preclude discussion. I repeat, in addition to the debates in this House on the enabling bill, there has been, and still is, a discussion with the trade unions and employers' organizations on the content of these orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u238	It would be good if it took place with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u239	[["Hush! » on several benches of the REM group]] And with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u240	[[Protests on several benches in the REM group]] There is no "chut"! We can speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u241	Only the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u242	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the REM group]] Jacob acted as if he did not know the principle of enabling laws. There will be discussion, Mr. Jacob! You'll see, everything's going to be fine...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u243	I'm not sure, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u244	Finally, a word about our country's financial and budgetary situation. It is at the heart of a number of exchanges, and of course it will be at the heart of a number of measures. We can look at her from every bench, look at her with all the stories that are ours: she's bad. Perhaps we can discuss the causes. Perhaps we can discuss why, since 1974, no government, no Parliament has adopted a balanced budget. Let us agree, ladies and gentlemen, that for ten, twenty, forty years...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u245	Not that, not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u246	... our country's budgetary situation has hardly improved. We can exhaust ourselves in a discussion – probably excellent – about the causes. But finally, it seems to me that the essential thing is to settle this matter! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] It is not just a question of satisfying I do not know what European myth – sometimes Medusa, sometimes Minotaure – but of working for us and for those who will come after, for your children, for mine. French assets, regardless of their activity, each bear 70000 euros of public debt! [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] This debt could have been subscribed to finance investments that would have produced effects for a very long time. If that had been the case, we would talk about it in different terms. But a very large part of this debt is used to finance current deficits, operating deficits, expenditure that we do not want to reduce when it is our responsibility to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u247	Well, let's launch a commission of inquiry on this matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u248	The choice of the Government is clear, ladies and gentlemen: we will not resolve the issue of recurring deficits and rising debt by increasing taxes; We'll do it by lowering the expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u249	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u250	Indeed! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I know that these discussions will, as always, be arduous and complicated. To succeed, the enthusiasm of a moment that would be difficult but quickly passed will not suffice; For a few years, it will take a well-kept direction. It will be an effort of execution over time, an effort of coherence. That's what I'm proposing. Exercise is difficult, but I am sure we will come together to a solution. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Same movements]] I would like to conclude by welcoming two Frenchmen who have offered us, today and in very different fields, an image of brave and conquering France: Mr. Samuel Forey, seventy-ninth winner of the Albert-London Prize and Mr. Arnaud Démare, winner of the fourth stage of the Tour de France! [[Members of the REM, MODEM and LC groups stand up and applaud at length]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u251	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u252	As the Prime Minister has committed the responsibility of the Government, I shall put to the vote the approval of his general policy statement. The vote will take place in the adjacent rooms of the meeting room. Ballot papers have been placed in your desks. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. It is open for 30 minutes. It will therefore be closed at eighteen forty-five hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u253	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u254	The meeting was resumed. The result of the vote on the Government's policy statement is as follows: Number of voters 566 Number of votes cast 437 Absolute majority of votes cast 219 For approval 370 Against 67 [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The National Assembly approved the Government's policy statement. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u255	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I would quickly like to thank all those who voted for this confidence: the presidents of the two groups of the majority, of course, all the Members and those who, beyond these two groups, have made the choice of trust. I do not take this confidence in any way for a blank sitting, but I thank all the Members who voted for it, and of course I respect those who did not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-04-E1001.u256	Next sitting, tomorrow, Wednesday, July 5, 2017, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
