ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u2	We are dealing with the examination of credits relating to sport, youth and associative life (No 273, Annex 42; No 274, Volume VI). The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u3	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to both fund sports excellence and popular sport. This budget allows for this. Indeed, it is almost stable, since the appropriations of programme No 219, in particular the grants allocated to the National Centre for the Development of Sport – CNDS, are only about 1% lower than in 2017, and this, without including the budget line dedicated to the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, which I will submit to you by way of amendment. On the other hand, the means are not everything. Indeed, if France has one of the highest public spending of the European Union on sport, sport practice is stagnating in our country and the results of high-performance athletes are not always up to the standards. This budget therefore responds to two key priorities – the preparation of the 2024 Games and sport for all – which are the two sides of the same coin. Seven years to succeed our Games, seven years to make France, the whole of France shine. Seven years to make us collectively proud. That's our challenge! This budget will allow us to support the federations with an additional 3 million; to accompany our high-level athletes with an envelope of more than 10 million euros, intended for personalized support; and to commit the preparation of the Games. These Olympic and Paralympic Games will also be a great social opportunity, with a goal of 20,000 volunteers on a civic service mission in sport. With regard to sport for all and everywhere, which creates a social bond and a vector of values, we will also have the means of our ambitions. The CNDS will be the main lever.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u4	His recipes are divided by two!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u5	With 136 million euros, to which is added the measure of the amending finance bill announced by Gérald Darmanin, the CNDS becomes the undisputed operator of sport for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u6	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u7	We will continue the "Sport and Society" project with an envelope of €20 million, which will support social and digital innovation projects. Sport everywhere is also concerned about overseas and Corsica, with an envelope of 7 to 10 million euros for the development of equipment adapted to the specifics of the ultramarine territories. Sport for all is finally 1.5 million euros for the Handisport and Paralympics. Because everyone must be able to flourish with sport, it is up to us to lift the brakes on practice. The budget for the "Youth and Associative Life" programme for 2018, headed by my colleague Jean-Michel Blanquer, is structured around three priorities. The first is the accompaniment to autonomy: it is the object of our action for youth and popular education. The information, international mobility and access of all young people to quality leisure activities are supported by this budget, which spends EUR 25 million on it. The youth and people's education associations will be financed to the tune of €52 million, of which €31 million will be financed through the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund (FONJEP), which supports more than 5000 jobs, and €25 million for associations approved at local or national level. The second priority is the development of engagement in associative life. At constant scope, support for the development of associative life will increase, in 2018, from 10 to 16 million euros. Volunteer support will also be strengthened through the implementation of the new citizen engagement account, which recognizes and values commitment to the public interest. In addition to this support, the State as a whole contributes significantly to the development of associative life through various tax schemes, the total of which, linked to this programme 163, exceeds €2.7 billion in 2018. This effort will be further strengthened in 2019 by a permanent reduction in employers' contributions benefiting the voluntary sector, amounting to €1.4 billion. Third and final priority: to support engagement through civic service. A mechanism appreciated by young people, civic service is part of the continuity of educational policy, with a quarter of the volunteers with little or no graduates. The draft budget for 2018 confirms the momentum that we want to continue on civic service. The target is 150000 volunteers; the credits are increased by 63 million to reach 448 million in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u8	Mrs Perrine Goulet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u9	Mr President, the Minister for Sport, the Minister for National Education, the rapporteur-general, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2018 sets the Government's priority for the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission, with the Olympic Games of 2024 and the civic service in sight. Indeed, the Commission is seeing its appropriations increase sharply, reaching EUR 888 million. This increase mainly reflects two distinct movements: one is the result of the budgeting of certain missions so far assumed by the CNDS; the other corresponds to the need for a wealth of resources to finance expenditure on civic service. Funding for sport amounts to €481 million in 2018, to which must be added the appropriations of programme No 124, which manages the 1,600 sports technical advisers – CTS. The CNDS has its assigned tax revenues divided by two, amounting to EUR 133.4 million. This is due to a redefinition of its tasks, which should essentially be limited, in view of its resources, to financing sport actions for all at territorial level, in support of associations and sports employment. We believe that this decrease in resources is a matter of concern. Abandonment of the mission on co-financing of equipment risks endangering sport actions for all at the level of the territories most in need, such as the city's priority neighbourhoods and rural areas. It also risks curbing the fight against inequalities, the development of the sport or the feminization of sport. In addition, it will be necessary to address the issue of financing projects already committed over the next few years, amounting to €180 million by the end of 2017. Thus, we will remain vigilant about the commitments made by Minister Darmanin during the discussion on the amendments we tabled in section 19 of the finance bill, and in particular that, in the 2017 amending finance bill, an additional €20 to €30 million will be credited to the CNDS. As a result of the redefinition of the CNDS's missions, more than €72 million of funding comes from the Sport programme, in particular to finance the objective agreements, the allocation to the French National Olympic and Sports Committee and the grants to major international sporting events. The draft finance law provides for a plethora of resources from the federations in the field of high-level sport for an amount of €37 million. The forecast support for sports federations will therefore reach €72 million in 2018. In the light of this slight decrease, we consider it appropriate to scale up the extent of public support for the financial situation of the federation in question, in order to enable a significant leverage effect for federations with difficulties in having own resources. With regard to anti-doping, the French Anti-Doping Agency – AFLD – has increased its funding to EUR 9.59 million, an increase of 13% compared to the amount foreseen in the original Finance Act for 2017. However, its financial situation has remained a concern since the decision of the World Anti-Doping Agency – AMA – to suspend the Châtenay-Malabry laboratory. This exceptional circumstance must be taken into account and a budget translation must be found at the end of this year. The Agency must have not only sufficient resources, but also predictability as to the multi-year evolution of its resources, in order to enable it to carry out, in particular, before the expiry of the Olympic Games of 2024, the central project for the relocation of the Châtenay-Malabry laboratory into a renovated and more practical infrastructure. With regard to the preparation of the Olympics, we welcome the creation of a specific mission as early as 2018 through the government amendment that we will discuss earlier. In order to achieve the goal of obtaining 80 medals at these Games, we recommend that consideration be given to the remuneration levels of coaches under the framework agreements concluded between the state and the federations and that a multi-purpose CTS pool be created to compensate for absences due to illness or pregnancy. Finally, in order to improve the readability of funding, we have tabled an amendment which aims to create a specific budget document, annexed to the finance bill, to monitor funding by public money at both the state and the communities involved. With regard to the budget for youth and associative life, the latter will increase by 12.3% to an amount of EUR 540 million. Most of the increase in appropriations under programme 163 relates to civic service, which receives an increase of €62 million out of the additional €68 million planned at constant scope. The financial management of the financial years 2016 and 2017 was marked by the need to abound the allocations in the course of the year, due to the inadequacy of the appropriations initially available. Taking into account the target set for 2018 – to accommodate 150,000 young people – the draft budget therefore brings the allocation to 447 million euros, an increase of 16% compared to 2017. 2018 will also see the launch of an evaluation of the scheme. The still massive amount of tax expenditure associated with the programme – €2.7 billion planned for 2018 – raises questions about their cost-effectiveness. A systematic review of their opportunity is needed. In view of the success of the civic service, it is necessary to promote the reflections prior to the implementation of a universal national service, a tool that would combine defence awareness considerations, increasing social mix and improving the chances of employment of the young people concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In view of the many advances envisaged in this budget, I will call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve the funds for the 2018 Sport, Youth and Associative Life Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u10	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Paris was designated host city by the International Olympic Committee to host the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024. This perspective goes far beyond sport: looking at youth, it must make a lasting impact on society. The Olympic and Paralympic project is primarily meaningful and will leave a legacy: a material legacy for the territories; an intangible legacy to convey the fundamental values of effort, sharing and tolerance. This project of general interest is a unique opportunity to speed up public policies and to have the actors of society work together. I also welcome the Government's efforts, by way of an amendment, in this regard. As the Minister of Sport in the enlarged committee recalled on October 25, 2007, sport must first be a value-transmitting tool. The overall sport budget, i.e. as a result of the payment appropriations for programme No 219, plus the taxes allocated to the CNDS, is falling by 7% – 6.9% to be precise this year. The minister told us that this reduction was reduced to 1% after the remaining payments were taken into account. This reduction in the sport budget is in any case part of a necessary clarification of the distribution of tasks between the State and the CNDS, advocated on several occasions by the Court of Auditors and which, I believe, is in the right direction. For me, the issue of sport governance is a priority. That's when I looked at the sports credits. Indeed, the decline in sport credits is only acceptable in a transitional way if accompanied by a profound reform of governance. In this regard, I make a number of proposals that you will find in my report, such as replacing the current state model with a model of partnership governance, limiting the accumulation of sports mandates over time or strengthening government cross-cutting. France has a great ambition from the perspective of Paris 2024: we must seize this opportunity to modernise French sport if we are to achieve the objectives set by the President of the Republic. Of course, the mission "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" is not limited to sports credits but includes those of programme 163, "Youth and Associative Life". While the latter are up sharply from last year, it is mainly due to the rise in civic service. Some amendments tend to delete it. For my part, I am in favour of civic service, because it allows the integration of young people while developing their skills, because it is an essential tool for the social engagement of young people and for combating inequalities, and finally because it offers the young people concerned tasks which are directed towards the fight against discrimination. Beyond the purely budgetary aspect, it is indeed this crucial issue in the fight against discrimination that I have chosen this year to devote the thematic part of my budget opinion. The resources currently available to the Mission can be a tremendous lever for this fight and would benefit from greater use in this direction. I am convinced that the worlds of sport, associations, youth and popular education must be factors of social cohesion and gathering, places of individual emancipation where everyone is built. It appears that training measures are an indispensable prerequisite for any progress in this field, whether it is training for professionals or the lack of training targeted at combating discrimination – which, where they exist, are not always requested by the persons concerned. I would add that in order to enhance the value of sport in high school, it would be appropriate to replace the current name of "physical and sports education", known as EPS, with "sports courses". This symbolic change would help create a new, more modern, playful and club-oriented state of mind. In any case, that is what the people interviewed told us. As a major social issue, any policy to combat discrimination must be of a cross-cutting nature. This is an objective on which I stress very much and for which I make proposals throughout my report which concern both programme 219 and programme 163. The fight against discrimination must be placed at the heart of our public policies. In this regard, the new guidance given to schools, in particular through the priorities given to the acquisition of fundamentals for those most in need, can play an active role in reducing social divides. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] In recent years, awareness has led to positive advances, but it is necessary to change software to accelerate this evolution of mentalities, because, as Albert Einstein said, "it is easier to disintegrate an atom than a prejudice."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u12	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u13	[[Smile]] But who's gonna interrupt it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u14	Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u15	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the role of sport remains unique in our society. It is first of all an educational role: sport trains our young people, develops their physical and cognitive skills, promotes the learning of rules; In short, he trains men as well as athletes. Sport also plays a role in health and well-being, as the fight against sedentary behaviour and the development of sport practices involve public health and productivity issues. Its role is now also economic, with wide access to leisure sports and the resulting consumption. Its role is finally and, of course, social: sport allows us to maintain a strong social bond in our rural areas and, in terms of living together, it is the last place to melting pot, where all categories and all origins meet to share moments, emotions, values. But the working ankle that articulates all these roles, more essential than ever in contemporary society, are our associations, with their passionate volunteers and their dedicated and graduate educators. We must absolutely fight against the dramatic phenomenon of hourglass that affects sport in France: in the upper part, elite sport grabs all income, all media coverage, and is doing quite well; in the lower part, mass leisure sport develops, the awareness of health is combined with the refusal of any coercion and commitment peculiar to our modern society; and between the two, increasingly strangled, the associative sector suffers and impoverishes to the point of dying. For all these reasons, Madam Minister, I would like to point out the inconsistencies in the budget that you are submitting to us and ask for changes to be made to your sports policy ersatz, which is currently only superficial and the effects of announcing the Paris designation to host the 2024 Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u16	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u17	These Olympic Games must be the celebration of sport for all and in all territories, not a festival of consumption and demise that would be confined to Île-de-France. We expect you, first of all – or rather, finally – to take a clear and explicit position on the scandal of the indecent Lima celebrations and the miraculous pay for the officials of the Olympic Games Organizing Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u18	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u19	We then ask you to create a real fund for the development of sports projects and infrastructures in our communes, everywhere in France, which would be financed by the levying of a small percentage of the colossal commercial revenues of the Games, far from the crumbs of a few million that will be allocated to the CNDS through the project "Heritage" displayed pompously by Paris 2024. I would remind you, for all purposes, that it is the national taxpayer who will finance these Games to the tune of more than EUR 1.5 billion and who will have to cover up any slippages. At the same time, the role of local communities in developing and supporting sport practices must be fully recognized. However, the various and varied impacts on the budgets of the communities have already led in recent years to an inevitable decline in support for associations and investment in the construction and maintenance of sports facilities. And you're going to cut those resources down again in the 2018 finance bill, through the amputation of half of the CNDS budget, the end of the aided contracts, the new budget cuts of our communities and the removal of the parliamentary reserve,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u20	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u21	Ah, the parliamentary reserve!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u22	... which has the immediate result of a loss of 50 million euros, which went directly to the equipment projects of our small clubs and our small associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u24	We absolutely cannot agree with the proposal made by the rapporteur-general of the budget to set up a fund of EUR 30 million as compensation for associations of all kinds, whether sports or not, because governance is highly questionable, because these EUR 30 million would be taken from the sports budget – it is still a big deal! – and because they represent 40% less than what the parliamentary reserve provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u25	Ah, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u26	Finally, this budget shows that sport and our associations are clearly not a priority for Emmanuel Macron and his government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u27	You didn't read the project!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u28	Beyond the overall decrease in the Mission's budget, which reaches 7 per cent – an effort far greater than that required of the State administration, of which, it must be said in passing, the lifestyle continues to drift – it is the choices and the way of doing things that are alarming. I want to talk about the government's intention to halve the budget of the CNDS, which finances sport for all; the arrival of an envelope of 58 million euros directly allocated to the financing of pre-game studies; the increase of 100 million euros in the ministry's budget: all that shows a desire to give priority to the Olympic Games and the related miraculous expenses. But the transfer and clarification of the missions you are talking about, Madam Minister, about the CNDS, regardless of the meaning in which they are taken, will not be enough to hide the manifest theft, which I would like to denounce again, from 70 to 100 million euros – depending on the corrective measure that will be introduced by the Minister of Public Accounts in the draft amending finance bill – on the appropriations allocated to sport for all. Minister, sport does not have a sumptuous vocation. The success of a sports policy is not measured by a shimmering transfer or by a number of gold medals: such records must only be the consequence. The success of a sports policy is measured in the smallest terrains of our smallest communes, when we see that they are busy every night with fervour and that we can hear the screams of children, of the little ones or of the big ones, who devote themselves to their passion and give the best of themselves to develop their potential, achieve their goals and, why not – as you yourself have done, Madam Minister – realize their dreams. You must hear the voices of associations and amateur sports, who have already made a great deal of effort and suffered the consequences of the economic crisis, if you do not want your government to be the fosseur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u29	Please conclude, Mr. Di Filippo.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] Minister, listen to us, hear our proposals, and we will win the most beautiful of victories, the one we all win together!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u31	[[Applause]] I salute the many people who have come to our debates. Mrs Maud Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the overall budget for this mission is moving forward flatteringly, given the significant increases in the two programmes that make up it. This increase is all the more appreciated as it concerns actions that are eminently necessary for our country. We will never say enough the importance of the role played by associations, whether cultural, sporting, educational or social. A pillar of local cohesion, the association ensures a true public service mission, made up of social ties, education and integration. In direct contact with the land, it serves more than ever as a cement, in all the territories and among all the citizens of our country. According to figures from the Ministry of Sport, 72% of the public funding for sport in France is made by the municipalities. The situation is the same for the whole of our associative fabric. This is an additional reason to study with great attention the appropriations for this mission: they will obviously have direct and immediate consequences in our communes and for our fellow citizens. We therefore welcome the substantial increase in the resources allocated to this mission, which will enable the various actors involved to develop their actions. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will pay particular attention to ensuring that the increasing resources are directed primarily to the voluntary sector, in proportion to its service to society. Because his questions, expectations and needs are numerous and urgent. We must not be deaf to the serious concerns of the community. They are about simple things, on which we can act directly. First of all, the means at his disposal. I am referring here to the support that the parliamentary reserve provided to associations. Since this reserve is no longer available, I am pleased to see that initiatives are planned to direct the funds allocated to it to associations through a new mechanism, even if it still remains to be defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u33	They will never reach the necessary level!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u34	We believe it is important to send a strong and reassuring signal to the voluntary sector. All the more so since the effort made by the nation will remain very measured in view of the limited resources that the associations really need to sustain and develop their activities. Secondly, the jobs of the community, which we must continue to support. From this point of view, the termination of assisted contracts is also a source of concern for the survival of many associations. Let us avoid accounting alone and provide solutions for the future, drawing on the many initiatives that come from the field and that could be deployed more. I am thinking, for example, of the sharing of administrative jobs between structures. In the same vein, we look forward to the Government's initiatives to highlight the practice of volunteering. We would like more details on the implementation of this massive effort, in order to ensure that these resources will be used as widely as possible and that the mechanism can be fully efficient, as soon as possible. With regard to sport, the Ministry will also benefit from a substantial increase in its budget. In anticipation of the great and beautiful deadline of the 2024 Games in Paris, we are pleased to see that a financial effort has already been made. But in order for it to be effective and for the double objective of the 80 medals and the 3 million additional licensees to be achieved, this effort must be deployed throughout the country, both in metropolitan France and overseas, in large urban areas as well as in rural and intermediate territories. Only at that price will we succeed. As a watermark, the issue of infrastructure and equipment is therefore essential, because they are lacking or because their old condition makes them impracticable. It is through the development of the entire territory, with all audiences, valid as well as invalid, that we will succeed in demonstrating that the Olympic legacy is not simply a marketing formula, but that it can, in practice, be measured and seen. The Paris 2024 Olympic Games must first and foremost benefit our fellow citizens, our associations, our volunteers and our communities, while serving as a powerful vehicle for social cohesion. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Minister, Minister, we welcome the increase in funding for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life Mission, as we know it is useful to our country. We are excited about the challenges we face. The Democratic and Related Movement Group will therefore vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u35	Mrs Béatrice Descamps spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u36	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in November 2017, the study of the budgets allocated to the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission has a special resonance. A month ago was officialized a very large and beautiful project for our country: the hosting, in 2024, of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. In this context, the examination of the funds allocated to sport cannot be anecdotal or secondary, because it is today that we are preparing for our future success. The Olympic Paris has placed the membership and integration of all at the heart of its project. Sport is no doubt the most unifying momentum that can unite a nation; for it transmits universal values, the joy of victory, the taste of effort; He gathers different people under the same banner. That is why it is unbearable to note that real discrimination persists in this world of unity and emotion. Sport is a reflection of society, and as such everyone must have access to it: persons with disabilities, the elderly, the sick. I would like to acknowledge the initiatives related to sport-health and sport as therapy, as well as the valorization of the Paralympic Games. There should no longer be cases of racial, sexual or homophobic discrimination in sport. There must no longer be any differences in access to sport between a young city dweller and a young person living in rural areas. There must no longer be socio-economic categorization within sport and, I stress, every child should be able to practice horse riding or fencing if it is his dream, as nothing should prevent a young person from practicing football or futsal, and especially not the pretext that he would not feel in his place. Moreover, let us not forget to make facilities and transport accessible to people with reduced mobility for practice and participation in events. Sport is everyone's place, and it counts as a place for all. It is the sense of the Olympics and the work that will be carried out upstream for seven years to prepare them. That's why the Constructive Group is wondering about the 7% reduction in the 2018 sport budget. Madam Minister, you have explained that this reduction is to be appreciated in the light of the redefinition of the competencies of the CNDS vis-à-vis those of the state, and we are of course relying on your expertise. However, we will remain very attentive to the evolution of sport funding in the year and then in the years to come, and let us maintain the suggestion of our rapporteur, Pierre-Yves Bournazel, to move from a strictly state model to a partnership model. It is very important to create a policy in line with the reality of the field, in order to help sports clubs that give tomorrow's champions the weapons to win victories, to every child of fun and friends and to every adult an opportunity to flourish and keep healthy. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a problem which, in my view, is absolutely vital: the issue of doping in amateur sports, which, because it is facilitated by the extreme accessibility offered by the Internet and is infinitely less publicised than in the world of professional sport, is experiencing a worrying upsurge. This is a public health issue for which I hope that we can work together to find effective and concrete solutions for the benefit of our athletes and future athletes. The increase in the overall budget of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission is particularly justified by the €58 million increase in the budget for civic service. The objective, as we know, is to stabilise the number of young people who have participated in civic service at 150000 per year, instead of 130000 in previous years. While civic service has repeatedly demonstrated its benefits and its commitment to life projects, the fact that it swallows up almost 80% of the funds allocated to associations, in a context where they are experiencing difficulties, remains a dimension that we find difficult to understand. Last week, in an expanded committee, Madam Minister, you paid a tribute to the millions of volunteers through which our sports clubs and associations operate. These volunteers, who give their time and energy, will unfortunately no longer be able to count on the aided contracts and will also suffer from the disappearance of the parliamentary reserve, which was a one-time but not negligible boost for tens of thousands of clubs each year. Finally, they will be affected by the decline in operating endowments to the communities that provide them with the grants to support them. Sport and associations cannot be the variable for adjusting a budget that is placed in a logic of reducing the expenses that we understand and support. Sport and associations make our country live every day and, as France is about to become the world capital of sport, they deserve strengthened resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u37	The next speaker is Mr Régis Juanico, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, total state spending on sport, youth and associative life policies is on the rise for 2018: slightly more than 1.3 billion euros, compared with 1.2 billion last year. Funding for youth and associative life increased significantly, by almost 13 per cent, mainly on the rise of civic service. This is in keeping with what we achieved for five years, between 2012 and 2017, as the Mission's full budget increased by 30 per cent over this period. All funding for youth policy in the cross-cutting budget document amounted to more than €90 billion, an increase of 22% over five years. In this way, the budget devoted to sport, youth and associative life is part of a form of continuity. With regard to sports credits, the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024 must be an opportunity to develop, for seven years, a major plan of physical and sporting activities for all, at all ages of life, whether at school, university, company, administration or in medical and social institutions such as retirement homes. This morning, together with Bruno Studer, the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, we set up a working group which we will co-chair with Aude Amadou, who will work together to help you in this direction. I know, Madam Minister, that you share our ambition. You have announced a bill that aims to develop sport practice for the greatest number within two years. We will support it as much as we can, because we had the ambition with Valérie Fourneyron, without having been able to achieve it. We have to go as fast as we can. You also share the ambition to make the Olympic and Paralympic Games a major development plan for sport practice. But will you have the financial and budgetary resources? You started your intervention in an enlarged committee – and that bothered me a little bit – by saying that your budget was part of the strategy of reorganizing the public accounts of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Sport credits, such as those for youth or associative life, must be able to escape this accounting and budgetary logic. They will fall slightly in 2018, and we are waiting to see what amendments will be adopted earlier. Is this really a positive signal sent to our country, a few weeks after the Olympic and Paralympic Games were awarded 2024 in Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u39	And what do you do with debt?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u40	It's a matter of choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u41	The first budget of a legislature often sets the tone for the rest of the mandate. From this point of view, we will need to be very vigilant in order to help you with the greatest amount of funding for sport. You announced the deployment of 500 houses dedicated to sport, health and well-being. But, to observe the budget documents correctly, there is a certain vagueness. Indeed, we do not have, for example, a timetable; We do not have any information on the financing of these houses, nor on their operating procedures or their specific target – will it be the chronically ill who will make the sport by prescription or will they be open to all audiences, especially those who are furthest from the practice of sport? It will be interesting to provide us with some clarifications. As for the CNDS, which has a great deal of expertise on the issue of sport for all, it is, with the significant decrease in its resources and the savings imposed on it, amateur sport and sport for all who lose out, especially since this centre has an original governance, shared between the state, the territorial authorities, which are the main sources of funding for sport in our country, and the sports movement. It's a bit of a shame to get rid of that. Our group will determine its position on the basis of our discussion of the amendments. At the moment, we are very concerned and we will be extremely vigilant, particularly on the issue of sports credits. With regard to associative life, we voted for civic service in 2010 and we will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u42	Mr Michel Larive, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u43	Minister, to paraphrase Michel Serre, I will begin by saying that in your project, from a social point of view, sport is an activity where everyone loses. You're not talking about sports; All you're talking about is the winner: Paris 2024. This is a tiny part of this activity. The Olympic Games will cost €6.2 billion. When one remembers the budgetary overruns of the Beijing Games and especially of Rio, which saw their initial bill of 9.5 billion euros multiplied by three to reach more than 30 billion euros, one can fear the worst. What will be the real economic benefits for France? Do you want me to remind you of the cost to Greece of the Athens Olympic Games? They increased their external debt by 2 to 3 per cent. This forceful elitism, which will focus on a few metropolises, does not represent sport activity from the social point of view in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u45	Now I'm going to talk to you about the losers, who represent the vast majority. It is the local authorities, to which more than 3 billion incomes have been cut, in particular by abolishing the housing tax. We need to know that our communes own 50 per cent of the sports infrastructure in our country. There is the multitude. Wasn't there any other priorities? The fight against violence is a project that should receive our full attention. Some sports arenas have become places where nationalisms and the foolish hatreds that accompany them crystallize. Homophobia, sexism and handiphobia are common in changing rooms as well as on stands. What about the deplorable working conditions of sports accompaniment professionals, dilapidated or totally obsolete infrastructures, showcases of territorial inequality in this field? The allocation of the Olympic Games did not increase your department's budget, Minister. With 481 million euros, almost twice the amount of the transfer of Mr Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior to Paris-Saint-Germain, the State's intervention in favour of sport will decrease by 7% next year. You speculate on job creation for Paris 2024, while the massive use of temporary workers and especially volunteers will contribute a little more to the deterioration of working conditions and the deregulation of the labour code that you are accompanying – all to meet the ultraliberal demands of the IOC, as has already been demonstrated by the various Olympic preparations, notably in Brazil. Volunteers are the fabric of our country's associations, the main guarantor of the proper functioning of the French sports model. They would deserve our full attention, so that at last a statute would be created that would recognize their involvement in the dissemination of our republican values. The end of the aided contracts and their non-replacement, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve and its non-replacement and the drastic reduction of the allocations to the local authorities are all attacks on the sustainability of the voluntary world. This altruistic model, which the whole world envyes us, is one of the guarantors of the social cohesion of our Republic. The young people of our country are now referred to the civic service, this employment ersatz, which accounts for almost 82% of the funds allocated to the "Youth and Associative Life" programme. To this youth, they are asked to play their future by drawing lots. An idea to help you: What if the French university was sponsored by La Française des jeux? Today, as yesterday and as tomorrow, the freedom of choice for young people will in no way affect the structural future of our country. On the contrary! Some will always want to design planes, while others will write the books that will open us to the world. I regard this freedom to choose its path as one of the fundamental rights of our youth; Some will be sportsmen, and this choice is not meaningless. Michel Serre likes to say that sport helps him think. And you, colleagues, what do you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u46	Anyway, you, he doesn't help you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u47	Oh, stop being so contemptuous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u48	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u49	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the announcement of France's hosting of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024, the President of the Republic said that this victory was a great opportunity to accompany the country's transformation, to increase its dynamism and to strengthen the place of sport everywhere. A few weeks later, the executive decided to cut the state budget for sport by 7%, with the main victim being the National Centre for the Development of Sport, whose budget was cut by half, from 260 million euros to only 133 million euros. The Government invokes the refocusing of CNDS funds on the promotion of sport for all rather than on the construction of large structures; But still, the account isn't there. In the previous budget, €181.5 million was directed towards the promotion of sport for all, which is 48 million more than the total allocation of the CNDS in this finance bill. It is therefore a sign of a massive decline in funding for the promotion of sport and support for clubs and sub-donored territories. The Government says it wants to do much better with much less in this area – as in all others. This "austerity" marotte will not build the stadiums, swimming pools, or dojos that are needed everywhere. This sports budget is in complete opposition to the idea of the opportunity offered by the organisation of the Games. It has been reduced to its congruent portion for years, so we wonder what the State's margin of action in this area is still. You are opening up €48 million to start the preparations for the Olympic and Paralympic Games, in particular to finance the studies conducted by the delivery company for the Olympic works. It is indeed a necessary passage. But – we can all say it, whatever our political edge – the success of the Games will first and foremost require the development of sports practice for all. As Marie-George Buffet recalled in committee last week, the legacy of the Games is not limited to the few additional infrastructures built on that occasion; their real heritage, it is all the equipment built or rehabilitated during the seven years that separate us from it, and above all the number of layoffs, boys and girls, won during this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u50	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u51	Yes, this goal requires resources. The GDR Group will not vote for a budget that goes completely down this road, which will not allow infrastructure to be developed, which will not support sports associations – the pillars of the world of associations – at least not up to the opportunity. The associative world is generally precarious, and to the study of the credits dedicated to the programme "Youth and associative life", we can only be worried. Approximately 80 per cent of the program's budget is absorbed by the civic service. Action for young people and people's education is down by almost EUR 2 million, and even though I welcome the last minute – and common sense – amendment! – the Government compensates for the end of the parliamentary reserve of EUR 25 million, the situation remains worrying. The fabric of society in our country is threatened by the brutal end of tens of thousands of aided contracts, which precaution countless structures, and the decline in allocations to local and regional authorities that we have known for ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u52	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u53	If the world of associations, if the structures of popular education collapse, it is social cohesion that will be threatened, both in urban and rural areas. Should we recall that in France there are 20 million members, 15 million volunteers and 1.8 million employees? More than ever, it is necessary to ensure their financial sustainability by, for example, returning to the increasingly systematic use of calls for projects, when they need stability. Let us seek to give priority to multi-year grant plans in order to empower them! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Finally, I am warning about the development of civic service, which, as I said, absorbs about 80% of the funds from the Youth and Associative Life programme. This scheme is of particular interest to young people with little or no training, to whom it enables them to engage in the service of others. It is not a question of calling it into question, but it cannot be generalized to infinity. Far too many civic service missions represent disguised jobs or alternatives to internships: last year, 35 per cent of young people in civic service had a higher education degree and only 25 per cent had a lower education degree. "To young people, let us not make one way; Let's open all the roads for them," Léo Lagrange said. Unfortunately, this budget is far from meeting this imperative; It is for all these reasons that the GDR Group will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u54	The next speaker is Mr Alexandre Freschi, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u55	Mr. President, Minister, Minister, today you are presenting us with a draft budget for sport, youth and associative life, bold, structurally reformative and integrating French society into a dynamic of inclusion and social cohesion. As such, two figures should be used: EUR 540 million in payment appropriations allocated to the 163 "Youth and Associative Life" programme and EUR 348 million in payment appropriations allocated to the 219 "Sport" programme. The mission discussed today saw its payment appropriations increase by 160 million euros compared to the initial finance law for 2017, from 729 million euros to 889 million euros, an increase of 22%. Several points need to be highlighted. First of all, the civic service: 80% of the appropriations under programme 163 are intended for the only action developing this scheme, in order to reach 150000 beneficiaries in 2018, an increase of 16.2% of young people committed compared to 2017. As a symbol of the Government's strategic direction for youth, this budget entry has the full support of the group of the presidential majority. Audacity as well as necessity, promoting civic service means not only encouraging an activity that enriches skills, but also strengthening an innovative system that allows young minds to be involved in living together. Secondly, a budget line of EUR 69.71 million clearly shows the state's involvement in youth and popular education. Specifically, EUR 44,337 million is intended to ensure the sustainability of youth and popular education community projects through a coherent and effective territorial network for community actors, local and regional authorities and recognised associations. For its part, the budget for the international exchanges of our young people amounts to EUR 13.883 million; This amount illustrates the willingness and ability to encourage the mobility of our young people so that they can learn from the experience of others and thereby strengthen and increase their skills. The abolition of the parliamentary reserve from 2018 onwards is accompanied by a stronger commitment by the State to the voluntary sector. Thus, a government amendment abounds with an additional €25 million from the Fund for the Development of Associative Life; This is undoubtedly a strong sign on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u56	That's half of what was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u57	They're communicating vases!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u58	The trans-party working group set up within the framework of the Committee on Finance by our rapporteur-general Joël Giraud, to define how this commitment should be taken into account, and the members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education who have been mobilised on this issue find in this governmental amendment a sensible and relevant response to the support needs of the world of associations. Another important aspect of the mission is the government's commitment to promoting a well-being sport, a health sport, a sport for all, everywhere and at all levels. The search for efficiency requires the modernization of the links between the State and the CNDS; This is the outcome of a process initiated five years ago. A refocused CNDS on the development of a sport accessible to all at the local level and a state ensuring national needs seem to us to form a coherent mechanism. This clarification of the missions is accompanied by a transfer of appropriations of EUR 72.8 million. You also provide important support to sports federations by increasing their appropriations by €3 million compared to 2017. This envelope will allow them to carry out concrete projects both in the metropolises and in the French peripheries. The goal of the eighty medals at the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris is a realistic project if we are already supporting the development of high-level sport in France. This is the direction in which you engage; Indeed, 60% of the appropriations under the 219 programme are allocated to support our institutions of the national network of high-level sport, training of sports executives and accompaniment of high-level athletes thanks to a personalized follow-up which will be financed in 2018 to the tune of 10 million euros. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] With a view to the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024, your amendment, Madam Minister, intends to allocate EUR 58 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 48 million in payment appropriations to the SOLIDEO fund; A pledge of anticipation, he receives the most total endorsement of our group. The public policy on sport, youth and associative life also takes into account the importance of volunteering in any sporting or associative success; This is reflected in the ambition to increase the number of volunteers on sports grounds by 200000 and to consolidate the number of 15 million volunteers in associations. Modernisation, support and investment are the mainstays of this draft budget; In light of these provisions, Minister, Minister, the majority group will adopt this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u59	I am told that the various interventions have been punctuated by interrogations involving unrespectful personal challenges. For the serenity of the debates, I would like to recall the demand of respect for the speaker, whom we all share.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u60	I call the credits of the mission "Sport, Youth and Associative Life", inscribed in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 423.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u61	The International Olympic Committee, meeting in Lima on 13 September 2017, officially awarded the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games to the City of Paris. Since the budgetary resources devoted to the organisation of the Games are dealt with separately, as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts pointed out at his hearing by the Finance Committee of the National Assembly on 27 September, it is proposed to create an ad hoc budgetary programme "Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024" designed to carry the funding from the State for the preparation of the competition. This dedicated budgetary programme, amounting to EUR 1 billion over the period, will allow the national representation to monitor the commitments and disbursements of this State contribution on an annual basis. The timing of the Games requires the forthcoming commitment of certain categories of expenditure. This is particularly the case in the case of studies prior to the future infrastructure projects of the Olympic Works Delivery Company, known as SOLIDEO. Accordingly, it is proposed to open an amount of EUR 58 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 48 million in payment appropriations for a new programme "Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024". These amounts are intended to allow certain SOLIDEO expenditures to be realized as of 2018: the launch of studies for the construction of the Olympic basin, the Olympic village, the media village and the Olympic cluster, as well as the possible acquisitions of land necessary to build the future Olympic village and cluster. Finally, this envelope includes an amount of EUR 8 million for the operation of SOLIDEO. This amount is provisional and will be refined by the prefigurator of this establishment. Separate appropriations in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations are intended to allow, if necessary, the signing of multiannual commitments which would not be subject to payment as early as 2018 – these may be leases or other types of contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u63	This amendment follows the commitment made by Mr. Darmanin during the examination of the first part of this finance bill. He had then announced the creation of a budget line specifically devoted to the Olympic Games: that was done. This line will track government expenditures for the Games. The committee is therefore in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u64	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u65	Minister, the Republican Group will vote for this amendment. The success of the 2024 Olympic Games is an ambition for our country as a whole: we share it. But this national ambition must also be a territorial ambition; for Paris and Île-de-France, of course, but also for a number of nearby territories – for example, in Burgundy, the city of Auxerre, of which I am the deputy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u66	And even further away!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u67	...and many other cities. I therefore call on you to incorporate this territorial objective into the Olympic governance bill that you are currently preparing and which we will be debating in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u68	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u69	Madam Minister, I would like to know more about the amendment that you have just tabled, which aims to provide an additional €48 million in payment appropriations to prepare the Olympic Games infrastructure for the benefit of SOLIDEO. My question relates to the "Heritage 2024" plan, which concerns the sporting, territorial and social benefits of the Olympic Games. Is that right? In the course of the debate on the first part of this finance bill, Gérald Darmanin had also committed to a further 20 to 30 million euros, in the framework of the amending finance bill, to finance the remainder to be paid by the CNDS, which has committed itself over several years – as a rule three or four years – to a number of equipment. What about this commitment? The draft finance bill provides for a €64 million reduction in the resources of the CNDS – which I see as an aberration. If we could reduce this reduction by half, it would be just a lesser harm. Above all, article 19 of the draft finance law goes back to the provisions passed last year, namely the deploring of the tax on sports bets which had allowed to abound the plan "Heritage 2024", and the additional levy on La Française des jeux which allowed to set up a fund of 25 million euros dedicated to community facilities – which are beneficial to health, well-being, swimming learning, educational projects of schools, sports clubs... All of this will disappear with this finance bill. In the same way, the "Buffet tax", which is a solidarity levy between amateur and professional sport, will be considerably planed. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions: What concrete commitments do you make, for the year 2018, as part of the "Heritage 2024" plan, in favour of the societal and sports development of the territories? And how do you intend to support the CNDS, which no longer has a lot of resources?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u70	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u71	Several criticisms – quite legitimate – have been made; I remind their authors that the candidacy of Paris for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 is indeed the candidacy of France as a whole. It's important to know that. This event gives us the opportunity to put our country under the spotlight, so that international actors, especially economic ones, can direct their gaze on France that wins – not to mention the material and intangible legacy that this event will leave. I am therefore pleased that the Government is launching operations to prepare for the 2024 Olympic Games, which are of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u72	The Minister for National Education has the floor to support Amendment No. 545.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u73	The aim of this amendment is to increase the appropriations for the 'Youth and associative life' programme by EUR 25 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations. To put it more concretely, this amendment aims to provide truly new funding of EUR 25 million for the development of associative life. This is a very important sign of the Government's support and confidence in the voluntary sector. We will have the opportunity, next week, to demonstrate this support during the "Week of Associations". This amendment reflects the Government's desire to renew relations with associations, which occupy an irreplaceable social and economic place in the life of the Nation. By adopting the law for confidence in political life, your assembly has decided to abolish the parliamentary reservation from 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u74	You're the one who decided it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u75	The arrangements for allocating funds from the parliamentary reserve were not satisfactory, despite the efforts made by the National Assembly to ensure transparency. This arrangement, often seen as a mere spillover of funds for political reasons, was not up to the major stakes of the sector. In view of the daily involvement of voluntary associations in the field, we owe better support to the associative structures. However, it is true that the abolition of the parliamentary reserve from 2018 will de facto lead to a decrease in the appropriations for the voluntary sector compared to the Finance Act for 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u76	It's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u77	It's a little late!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u78	The whole challenge, therefore, is to reverse some of the logics that have so far prevailed, and to encourage engagement without dissociating it from the economic model of associations. The Government thus intends to meet the specific needs of all associations, not only the major national associations, which employ several tens – or even hundreds – of employees, but also the smallest ones, who often play a decisive role in economic and social life at the local level. It is therefore necessary to consider this amendment in relation to the provisions provided for in section 43 of this finance bill, which provide for the abolition of the tax credit on taxes on wages, the CITS, and of the tax credit competitiveness employment, the CICE, from 2019 onwards, to benefit from a reduction in employer contributions, itself included in the draft law on the financing of social security for 2018. This reduction in employers' contributions will allow associations to save €1.4 billion each year from 2019 onwards, more than the accumulation of the current reduction in contributions and the CITS. This is obviously a considerable amount of money. This major scheme will benefit all associations employing employees. That is why we expect – as stated in the summary statement of the amendment – that these 25 million euros of additional appropriations will be used primarily for associations that do not benefit from the ITSC. After taking measures in favour of large associations, we are therefore taking specific measures in this amendment in favour of small associations, those which employ fewer than ten employees. To this end, the aim of this amendment is to provide an additional EUR 25 million for the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, the FDVA, financed by the Youth and Associative Life Programme. The FDVA, which currently has EUR 8 million, focused mainly on actions relating to the training of volunteers. Article 3 of the Decree of 30 December 2011 on this fund provides, however, that it may also "provide additional support, in particular in the form of financial assistance", to other types of actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u80	Of course, FDVA's actions in support of volunteering remain indispensable. However, our objective is to shift the new appropriations that this amendment aims at opening up to direct financial assistance to associations to support local initiatives. FDVA is a sufficiently flexible vector for this. We will be able to quickly change its missions and governance to encourage the financing of local associative life, especially in the field of sport – which is not possible as the 2011 decree is currently being drafted. This will need to be done in a coherent manner, in order to involve all stakeholders around the priorities identified at national and local level, according to the needs of the territories. Ladies and gentlemen, you have adopted courageous measures concerning aided contracts and the parliamentary reserve. We are well aware, however, that these measures have sometimes made associations difficult. We are actually in a period of transition, before the advent of a new, much healthier period, riddled of the perverse effects that everyone had noticed in terms of aided contracts and parliamentary reserve. This amendment aims to consolidate these courageous measures by supporting associations in a more objective and effective way. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Our objective is therefore in no way to recreate a parliamentary reserve. On the contrary, we want to inaugurate a new, healthier and more objective step. I therefore ask you to withdraw Amendments Nos 300, 383, 134, 400 and 398, all of which are designed to compensate for the abolition of the parliamentary reservation, in favour of the amendment I have just tabled to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u81	On Amendment No 545, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u82	In an enlarged committee, we adopted Amendment No. 134, the sole objective of which was not to undress Peter to dress Paul, but to obtain a reply from the Government in the form of a lifting of the pledge. In practice, it was a question of obtaining additional funding, not of stripping another program from the same mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u84	Moreover, if our approach had not resulted in the excellent proposal just made by the Government, I would have withdrawn this amendment in order not to reduce the funding for the Sport programme. It seemed important to me to say it clearly. I also recall what we had agreed with the Government on the funds from the parliamentary reserve, namely that they should contribute to the overall effort to reduce the public deficit. That makes sense to me. That's why we have a discount...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u85	Not a discount, a plank! And 50%! The plank is your specialty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u86	... or a plan, as you would like to say, 50%. I repeat, it does not seem illogical to me. Thank you, Minister, for the clarification you have given us. The Government's amendment is only credit: it aims to add 25 million euros of fresh money to the "Youth and Associative Life" programme. I am therefore of course in favour of this, and I will withdraw Amendment No 134 from the committee. I would like to give further details. As you said, Minister, the vector through which the funds that this amendment aims to open, namely the FDVA, will pass, must be completely changed. In fact, this kind of fund rarely happens in the territories – in my department, there have been only 21,000 euros this year, including 11,000 euros for the Education League. In addition, as you said, the FDVA in its current state cannot provide subsidies to sports associations. This point obviously needs to be changed. More generally, this money must be managed as closely as possible to the problems, at a level where officials know what the needs in terms of associations are, i.e. at the level of the departments rather than the regions. Let us take the department of Lozère: I doubt that a regional commission, which would meet on the side of Toulouse, would be sufficiently informed of what is happening in this department! I quoted the Lozère; I could also have quoted another department, which is even more expensive to me, located near the Italian border. We are therefore satisfied with the opening of the €25 million of appropriations, which will be managed – I hope – in a way shared by the state, the communities and the community...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u87	And with the chosen ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u88	... in such a way that the parliamentary reserve is replaced by a local allocation for associations, intelligently managed, as close as possible to local needs – which are often very important – because it is not in Paris that one can see, for example, the de-schooling of a number of children, whether it is at the bottom of a mountain valley or in a suburb facing great difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u89	Explain it to Mr. Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u90	Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u91	This amendment has not been discussed by the Finance Committee. However, as the rapporteur-general has said, we can only support it: EUR 25 million for the FDVA is an excellent thing. We're delighted. However, it is true that we have some reservations about the operation of this fund. Turning to Amendment No 134, which the rapporteur-general announced was withdrawn, I would point out that he had received the support of almost all the political groups. This is an essential point: we have managed to come together, regardless of our political colours, to agree on an amendment – which, I say, was an appeal amendment. Again, there was no question of receiving funding from the Sport programme, far from it! We agreed on a second point: there must be no floor. Today, the FDVA responds to requests that have a certain consistency. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] During these working meetings, we addressed several cases. I will quote a simple one, that of a veterans' association that needs a new flag for its section: today, its file does not reach the FDVA, as well as a request for sports jerseys for a neighborhood football team. These are alert signals that call for vigilant trust on our part. That is why, personally, I am in favour of this amendment and I hope that it will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u92	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u93	[["Ah! » and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I am in favour of this constructive amendment by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u94	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u95	Three months ago, our Assembly voted to abolish the parliamentary reservation. It was necessary for the functioning of our institutions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u96	Not so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u97	...but on condition, as noted, that the funds disbursed as such continue to benefit associations and communities in other forms. This finance bill proposes a clear shift for communities, but it seemed to us that beyond the very positive announcements on the increase in funds for civic service and the transformation of the tax credit into an expense reduction in 2019, a shift similar to that of the old reserve was missing for associations. We have therefore alerted you, and I am pleased that the Government has heard us, since, by this amendment, it is clearly a matter of a plethora of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life of EUR 25 million, a very strong sign for all associations, because this fund allows both to support voluntary commitment through grants and to encourage experimentation with a view to social innovation. This last point is fundamental in order to be able to accompany developments in associative life, as it must evolve, in particular in terms of financing and governance. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I will therefore, of course, vote for this amendment and call for further initiatives towards the voluntary sector, which is the foundation of our society. It will be necessary to invent, consider alternatives to assisted contracts – we await the conclusions of the mission entrusted to Jean-Marc Borello – and new avenues for voluntary engagement as well as for the development of the associative fabric in all its forms. We're gonna have to innovate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u98	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u99	Mr Minister, the Group of the Republicans takes note with satisfaction of the statement by which you acknowledged that the removal of the parliamentary reserve could undermine the financing of many small and medium-sized sports associations. This has never been said so clearly and clearly by the Government so far. I want to go back to Fabien Di Filippo's remarks, because there is indeed a cluster of clues: the decline in the allocations to local authorities, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, the rapid end of a number of assisted contracts, all of which greatly affect the ability of local authorities, in particular, to continue to support many small sports associations and to finance infrastructure. Your amendment bringing 25 million fresh money is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, but it must be noted that the account is still not there. The Government and the majority still have efforts to convince us that they fully recognize the importance of the involvement of the numerous sports associations throughout our territory in the social missions that are theirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u100	You are, however, the amendment, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u101	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u102	Minister, the order you are going to rewrite regarding the FDVA will have to take into account several elements on which I would like to alert you. First of all, article 3 of the 2011 Decree expressly specifying that the FDVA does not contribute to physical and sporting activities, this article should be repealed in the new Decree. In addition, can you make the commitment that its advisory committee will be maintained as it stands? It is essentially composed of qualified personalities from the community, which is a decisive guarantee. That would allow us to vote calmly on this very important amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u103	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u104	Minister, I know you like math. However, if the amendment you are proposing proposes an additional EUR 25 million and arrows, which is very good, I note that you are only making half the way, because the parliamentary reserve represented EUR 80 million in the National Assembly, half distributed over the municipalities and the other half over the associations, whereas 25 million are less than 45 million. The second topic for discussion is that this fund is defined at national level, whereas the rapporteur-general has done well to remind us that there is a need for resources for small associations. If your ministry needs to buy a set of jerseys, it costs it around 1_000-1_500 euros, and no one will bother you about this expense – otherwise, the time spent justifying it would make your productivity low –; think of the territories: they need breathing, i.e. they can make decisions as close to the ground as possible, which is not foreseen in your amendment. I support what the rapporteur-general has said in this regard. And then we must not consider parliamentarians as godillots (Exclamations on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups): in their territory, every weekend and also during the week, they go to meet associations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u105	[[Smile]] In sneakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u106	...shoeed as the rapporteur-general has just said, and having contact with them does not mean that they have a clientelist report, but that they hear things that do not necessarily go back to your ears, Madam and Mr Ministers. This breathing must therefore continue to exist. However, in your amendment, although I welcome the provision for fresh money, there is no provision for this. You keep everything centrally and will never have to go back to the field asking you for a set of jerseys, balloons or actions to take on the spot. Yet, Minister, all of this is important for associations to be alive on the ground. Unfortunately, I repeat, this is not provided for in your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u107	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u109	Given the importance of this amendment and its possible impact on other amendments that could be withdrawn, I will agree to give the floor to four other colleagues. However, we are not accustomed to this unusual number of speakers on an amendment. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u110	Mr Minister, contrary to what you said earlier, these are not new appropriations, but compensatory appropriations, since the parliamentary reserve already allowed for the support of various associations. I join Valérie Rabault: the account is not there. I participated in the reflection group led by the rapporteur-general, who worked so that we could recover part of what had been withdrawn through the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, but I consider that we are today only part of the way and that we must pay close attention to all the associations and territories that live through the voluntary commitment of many of our fellow citizens. It is necessary to avoid a centralizing reflex, from taking these aids in hand, which must, of course, go where they are necessary, but not always through an institutional path. The GDR Group will vote for this amendment, because it considers it better than nothing, but knowing that there is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u111	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u112	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Even more than a compensation measure, it is a remedy for errors committed at the beginning of the mandate. After removing the parliamentary envelope, because we were almost accused of practicing clientelism, the majority's colleagues eventually realized that this money went to the territories, sometimes the most difficult, to allow the communities to invest, and that this suppression also weakened the associations that those territories needed. The decision on assisted jobs has also seriously weakened our associations and the most difficult territories. We are therefore really in the framework of a reparation measure which unfortunately does not seem to us to be entirely up to the level, even if the New Left Group is going to vote for it. The questions of proximity will arise: who will arbitrate the use of these funds and to which associations? Will Members be associated? Can one envisage a form of very citizen participation – perhaps not just in the community – knowing that citizens are best able to judge whether the money is useful to a particular association? These are real questions that need to be asked. Thank you, Minister, for making this gesture, but I can tell you that we are still a long way from the point of view of already fragile territories and surviving associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u113	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u114	The parliamentary reserve made it possible to finance small projects – the purchase of flags or jerseys was mentioned. How will this provision be implemented, how will it work vis-à-vis local commissions to bring these initiatives back to the national level, knowing that these will be very small operations to justify the convening of a national body? I still have some concerns about the distribution by region: what about the small electoral districts of metropolis or overseas? In any event, I shall still vote for this amendment, even if the account is not there in terms of offsetting the abolition of the parliamentary reserve. If there's no grive, we'll eat some hake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u115	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u116	[[Exclaims on many benches in the REM group]] Fault confessed is half forgiven. We must welcome the Government's retreat, which finally recognizes that the abolition of the parliamentary reservation, in view of its interest in associations, was a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u117	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's ridiculous what you're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u118	We therefore forgive the Government for its faults, because it is also our role to control it. Having forgiven, my colleagues and I will of course vote for this amendment. I note that it is also intended to raise awareness. The Government understood, in the light of the upsurges of the deputies on the ground, that it had made a mistake, which it was trying to repair to the tune of 25 million, whereas, it was recalled, the parliamentary reserve amounted to 80 million euros. The method here has nothing visionary: it is clear that the decline is due to the lack of anticipation of what the parliamentary reserve could bring to the associations. However, we will vote for the amendment, because it is a support for the voluntary world. But since control is not an enemy of trust, we would like to remind you of the need to have an advisory committee that is truly representative, taking into account national representation, and also to take genuine transparency measures: since these are important to you in all areas, implement them here, very concretely.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u119	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u120	I am replying in a synthetic way to the many Members who have spoken. First of all, I want to note the great convergence of their interventions: it seems to me that this amendment is in the process of being adopted. The Government has been convinced from the beginning that something needs to be done for small associations: it has expressed itself widely in this direction. It has also taken into account the parliamentary debates, which, from a democratic point of view, should be welcomed: I am thinking in particular of the Committee on Finance's appeal amendment No 134 and the many discussions it has brought about. Today, therefore, the Government takes this into account in the budgetary framework: Amendment No 545 aims to increase the appropriations for programme 163 by EUR 25 million. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] If I like mathematics, I also do history, geography and French: so we could compare the impact of the proposed measure with that of the devices of the past. In addition to this EUR 25 million, we should add all the increases in appropriations for associations included in other missions of this budget, not to mention all the measures we are taking with regard to civic service, which will also be favourable to them. A new policy at the service of the associations is therefore truly emerging: it involves difficult caps, which require courage, measures that were demanded by all, beginning with the Court of Auditors: the reduction in the number of certain types of contracts assisted and the end of the parliamentary reserve, the reasons for which have been largely explained during the debates. Of course, account has been taken of the needs reflected in the use of these contracts and the parliamentary reserve by associations: this policy is therefore favourable to small, medium-sized and large associations. Of course, and in order to respond very constructively to your interventions, ladies and gentlemen, the decree of 30 December 2011 relating to the FDVA will have to evolve in order to stick to the realities of the field, since I share, of course, what has been said on this subject. The Government's amendment No. 545 goes in the same direction, focusing on supporting small associations. The same decree already guarantees – much more than other arrangements – a certain objectivity in the granting of financial assistance, notably through parity between the State and local authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] However, the relevant geographical level of decision-making can be questioned. I hear what has been said about the departmental level, which would be preferable at the regional level: it is common sense. We will therefore work on it, so that all small associations can find their own account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u121	We can't answer the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u122	Make a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u123	I put to the vote Amendment No. 545.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u124	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 546.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u125	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the implementation of the "Student Plan: Supporting Everyone Towards Success" announced by the Government to address the demographic shock in higher education and to rethink access to undergraduate education. In this context, an appropriation of EUR 20 million is foreseen in 2018 for the creation of posts in the voltage and short-term sectors, as well as for investments in new teaching tools. These funds are distributed among the programmes of the "School Education", "Research and Higher Education" and – to the tune of €2.201 million – "Sport, Youth and Associative Life". These new resources will be devoted to funding a training offer for some learners in the centres of sports resources, expertise and performance, the CREPS. They will therefore benefit more than a hundred students dedicated to sports trades. This approach is the result of an unprecedented partnership between the Ministries of Sport, National Education and Higher Education, Research and Innovation, with a view to strengthening the quality of the training offered to sports professions. This interdepartmental work will lead to a roadmap for the development of the skills necessary for the exercise of sports trades. This roadmap will include provisions to improve forward-looking knowledge of the skills to be mobilised in sport, to develop the training offer and, finally, to strengthen the information of students. This investment in training will thus be an additional key factor in the success of the bet of increasing sports practice in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u127	This amendment goes in the right direction, given the congestion of the science and technology fields of physical and sporting activities, known as STAPS, due to the fact that all young people join them when they wish to take part in sports training, even if we must not forget the role played by the apprentice training centres, the CFAs, in this field. This third internal route for the CREPS, which is designed to provide high-level training for our children's future leaders, is a good thing: I therefore welcome the operative part of this amendment and call for a vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u128	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u129	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u130	Mr Gabriel Attal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u131	This amendment, which is a direct result of the "student plan" announced on Monday by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation and the Minister of National Education, reflects a major commitment. It aims to better inform and guide high school students, to get out of the arbitrariness of the drawing by lot and, in higher education, to adapt the courses to the diversity of students, in order to reduce the congestion of some of them. This plan has very important objectives and is accompanied by a considerable financial commitment: the Government has announced that EUR 1 billion will be allocated to it, i.e. EUR 500 million in new measures – notably aimed at creating places in certain fields, adapting teaching models or creating innovative tools – and EUR 500 million corresponding to commitments made in the framework of the major investment plan 2018-2022. The EUR 2 million we are about to vote in favour of the sports sectors in the CREPS comes directly from this commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We have great ambitions for the democratisation of higher education: let us now, thanks to this amendment, give ourselves the means of these ambitions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u132	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u133	What did we not hear in July and, perhaps in a slightly softer tone, today? After the withdrawal of the reservation, we were accused of being anti-parliamentary and, at the moment, of being totally indifferent to the fate of associations, and thus of sport. The two government amendments – the one that has just been adopted like the one we are now considering – prove the opposite: in a constrained and painful budgetary context, significant sums are made available to support the associations as well as the leaders who lead them. However, we announced it in July: what was removed was not the money for community projects, but the power of the MP to grant grants. In any case, we will not save on thinking about the future of the voluntary sector: we cannot simply note that many small associations depend on small grants. We are also not very successful in raising European funds, whether it be the European Social Fund or regional funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u134	Tell that to the professional sport!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u135	If, therefore, consideration is to be given to the future of the association movement, in order to maintain its full vitality, it will be necessary to ensure that, as in companies, certain associations can sometimes reach certain thresholds to be more effective. This will make this movement less dependent on all these subsidies. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Having said that, I would like to thank the Government very much for being exact about the meeting that was set for it in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u136	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 371.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u137	Nearly 25 million euros will be paid in 2018 to strengthen the vitality of our associations, which often compensate for the shortcomings of the state, make France vibrate and symbolize dedication and passion. I welcome this vitality: the associations have 20 million members, 15 million volunteers and 1.8 million employees, or 10% of the jobs in the private sector. In short, it is a world in its own right. Yet this voluntary sector, which is necessary for our society, is polluted by a tiny minority of them who abuse the system. Some are also far from defending the public interest, when they do not violate the law. This small handful of associations live only on public subsidies, i.e. on infusion: it is thus the money of the taxpayers that is diverted, and this scandal has been going on for many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u138	Names?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u139	Who do you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u140	Oh, I could tell you! In recent months, the President of the Republic has been pleased to repeat that it was necessary to "think spring": so let us honor honest associations and remove the subsidies granted to associations, lobbies, temple guards and other think tanks that receive subsidies covering up to their entire budget. Some even use it to bring repeated legal actions: this is their real business. Furthermore, Parliament, which is supposed to monitor the allocation of these grants, will not become aware of them until they have been paid. Since this gabegie has lasted too long, I propose to take common sense measures: subsidies to associations should not represent more than 50% of their budget, and Parliament should finally be able to exercise effective control over their allocation. For this reason, which is not ideological but rather pragmatic, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u142	Since your amendment has not been considered by the committee, I will give only one personal opinion which is obviously unfavourable, because the amendment is incompatible with our approach. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] We cannot at the same time abound a fund in favour of associations, say that they are essential to our nation, its unity, to the society itself, to France – to which we wish to remind every day that we belong – and to its identity and to consider adopting it. His brief presentation shocked me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u143	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u144	As you have pointed out, the voluntary sector has 20 million members, 15 million volunteers and 1.8 million employees, or 10% of jobs in the private sector. Therefore, spending 50 million euros – taking into account Amendment No 545 which has just been adopted – on the development of associative life is certainly not a gabegy of public money. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On the contrary, these credits reflect the recognition of the State for a movement that reflects the daily commitment of citizens to the public service and the public interest. We will have the opportunity to say this on many occasions next week, and to show our will to go ever further in the spirit – that is, the concern for the general interest as well as the ability to mobilize the whole society in the service of the interests of the Nation – of the law of 1 July 1901 relating to the contract of association.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u145	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u146	Ms. Ménard should not act as if she did not know that all associations, when they received public subsidies, were rigorously monitored.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u147	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u148	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, NG and REM groups, as well as on a few benches of the MODEM group]] You refuse to name names, but we know which associations in the territories run by your friends are discriminated against: they are those that help the poorest, those that are the relays of society! Don't pretend! We need to be concerned about the sustainability of the associations that we need to strengthen. Today, when calls for projects are launched, these associations are being put into difficulty as victims of discrimination. This is tantamount to reducing the means available to them and, in addition, placing them under infusion. However, it is necessary to ensure their sustainability, which is a guarantee of their independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u149	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u150	Allow someone who has worked – at another time – for 15 years as director of associations of varying sizes to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u151	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u152	Major partners in the field of democracy, control of state or departmental subsidies have been forgotten in our discussion: federations of associations. For example, a small sports association that needs a set of jerseys or a veterans' association that wants to replace a used flag can apply to their respective federation. However, these same federations have exercised extremely strong democratic control in our country, and for more than a century now. We must not forget them: it is in fact, alongside parliamentary control, what is called daily and participatory democracy. I represent the French abroad in countries where such partners do not exist: I assure you that they must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u154	[[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, I asked for the floor. Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u155	Mr Chenu has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u156	Rule 100(7) of our Rules of Procedure provides that a speaker of the opposite opinion may speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u157	Precisely: a speaker of opinion contrary to the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u158	We have heard only speakers who oppose this amendment – but I support it. I will therefore be able to express myself, defending an opinion contrary to those just presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u159	No, Mr. Chenu.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u160	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u161	Mr Chenu, I have taken note of your point of order. I have given the floor to two speakers, as I am authorized by the Rules of Procedure, one from one person from the opposition, the other from one person from the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u162	But both opposed to the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u163	I have heard your point of order, but I will not give you the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u164	[[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] You don't respect the rules! Give me the floor, I'll only be a second!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u165	Mr Chenu, if it is on the amendment, it is no, if it is for a point of order, I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u166	It's for a point of order, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure provide that a speaker of the opposite opinion may speak. However, we have heard two speakers who were of the same opinion, i.e. opposed to Mrs Ménard's amendment. I support this: I am therefore of the opinion that is contrary to that of the two previous speakers. [[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] I want to express a different opinion, especially regarding deradicalization associations...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] No, Mr. Chenu. I repeat that I have taken good note of your point of order. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u168	You don't respect the minority! You don't want transparency on associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u169	Mr. Chenu, there's no need to scream!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u170	I'll make an appeal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u171	Well, you'll appeal and we'll talk to the Bureau again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u172	I put to the vote Amendment No. 371.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u173	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u174	The aim of this amendment is to transfer the funds currently allocated to Programme 163, Youth and Associative Life, under Action 04, "Development of civic service", to a programme aimed at strengthening integration through action and sport practice. Why is that? The civic service covers 150,000 young people for the year 2018 and absorbs almost 82% of the programme's appropriations, which represents an increase of 59 million euros in one year, for a scheme whose results are not in line with the target of commitment and integration of young people set by the State. The substitution of employment, the non-compulsory nature of the scheme, the lack of reception and training facilities, a lower remuneration than the SMIC, all contribute to making the current civic service an adjustment variable for the labour market for young people who have not graduated, not the crucible of a civil fraternity, as we would like. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Therefore, pending the development of civic service as a compulsory citizen service, which meets the criteria of developing a sense of national belonging and consolidating the social link, this amendment tends to allocate the funds available to strengthen integration through action and sport, which is a source of individual and collective development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u176	Unfavorable opinion. More than 50 per cent of programme 163 funds go to civic service. But the civic service is, tomorrow, 150,000 young people and mix. It is a volunteer service that represents a future for our nation – in any case in my view: this amendment has not been considered by the committee, and it is indeed a personal opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u177	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u178	As I said earlier, civic service is of major importance for many young people, as well as for our social cohesion. I have demonstrated this in my report: it is an instrument to combat discrimination. I can only be against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u180	[[Rites and exclamations on several benches]] Madam Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u181	This will happen one day!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u182	Madam Member, I'm sorry, the civic service is based on three fundamental principles: accessibility, mix – a quarter of young volunteers are little or no graduates – and non-substitution for employment. So I cannot agree with what you said. Of course, civic service is perfect, and we are aware of it. That is why we will not only increase the number of its beneficiaries, but also improve its quality. What it represents today is a first success, with more and more young people becoming involved, as is currently seen with the "Duties Made" scheme at the college. In four years, the number of volunteers has almost quadrupled, from 35,000 in 2014 to nearly 130,000 in 2017. By the end of October 2017, 300,000 volunteers have already participated in a commitment mission. In addition, 85% of former volunteers believe that this experience has enabled them to acquire skills useful for their professional future, and 91% believe that they have been able to achieve something socially useful. This is a trend which is obviously positive, and which we are going to intensify. This is why the 2018 Finance Bill devotes the means granted to civic service. The target is 150000 volunteers and the appropriations are increased by 63 million euros, reaching 448 million in 2018. Finally, according to the proposed missions, the civic service is likely to contribute to the strengthening of integration through sport practice. I therefore share what you have said about what civic service should be, and that is precisely what we are doing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u183	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u184	The remarks we heard earlier, at the opening of the sitting, which have just been taken up by our colleague from France who is insoubted, reveal an abyssal lack of knowledge of what civic service is. This is in fact a very good public policy, which started in 2010 with a few thousand young people and which today sees voluntary, free, more than 100,000 young people – 130,000 this year, 150,000 next year – committed to missions that are, I insist, of general interest, in extremely diverse areas: intergenerational solidarity, ecology, sport, culture, memory... For these young people, it is months of caesure, which allow them to obtain a 360-degree vision of what life is like in our society and, often, to find their way, especially professional – especially as we have strengthened, by the law of 27 January 2017, the measures of non-substitution to employment. It is necessary to recognize, when we go to meet young people on civic service – what I invite you to do in your department – that, thanks to this experience, young people find their way. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I would like to quote a statistic that the minister did not give. Out of a hundred young people who enter the scheme as job seekers, thirty find employment after the civic service mission, thirty resume their studies because they found the way in which they wanted to engage, and only one third remain unemployed. It is therefore a policy that deserves to be supported and developed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u185	On Amendment No 300, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Régis Juanico has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u186	Mr President, since we have unanimously adopted Amendment No 545 by the Government, it is difficult for me to propose another amendment, especially since I will not get the pledge lifted and I would be remiss if I am to amplify the funds for the Sport programme by EUR 40 million, even though I denounced earlier the fact that they were in a slight or even severe decline with regard to the National Centre for the Development of Sport. I therefore withdraw the amendment, which means that the request for a public ballot is no longer appropriate. However, I will make three points. When Joël Giraud presented his scheme last week in an enlarged committee, I had put forward the idea that the FDVA could be the support for the restoration of credits for associative life. So I won't complain today. This is the first time in my life as a parliamentarian that I am voting for an amendment which abounds by 25 million euros a fund which, in general, receives from 9 to 10 million euros in appropriations and which I myself had the greatest difficulty, as Special Rapporteur on sport, youth and associative life, in increasing the appropriations by 500,000 or 1 million euros each year! However, for an association such as the Secours populaire français, the loss of profits as a result of the abolition of the parliamentary reserve amounts, at national level, to 500,000 euros. It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u188	We will certainly have to come back some day to the question of the amount. That is why I proposed an abundance of EUR 40 million rather than EUR 25 million, so that there would be an exact compensation for what was perceived by associative life through the parliamentary reserve. I hope that in this respect we will be able to enjoy some flexibility in the coming years. As for the target, it is the small associations that will have to benefit from these credits, for their operation, the organisation of exceptional events, the purchase of equipment or other ad hoc grants. The wage tax credit represents a commitment of several hundred million euros, but there is also a reduction of 20,000 euros for other associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u189	Thank you, Mr Juanico.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u190	One last word, Mr. President. There is also the question of modalities. Would you agree, Minister, that a working group should be set up, which will look with you at how the new system can be declined, particularly at the departmental level, with the departmental directorates of social cohesion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u191	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u192	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u193	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 400.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u194	I will also withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u195	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u196	Yes, since its objective was to compensate for the abolition of the parliamentary reserve. I repeat, minister: it is necessary to maintain a close relationship. You said earlier that you liked geography. So do we! But we want a geography of proximity. The rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, suggested that you have a magnifying glass in order to zoom in on the department; Indeed, it is better than zooming in on the region, as they are becoming larger and wider. Now, as you know, far from the eyes, far from the heart... We would like to see small departments far from the metropolises also benefit from the wealth of the fund we voted for earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u198	I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u199	Madam Minister, with regard to the organisation of the Olympic Games, one of our colleagues said earlier that national commitment should also be a territorial commitment; I would add that there is no doubt that the word of the State must be respected, whatever the budget we vote on from year to year. This amendment seeks to increase the appropriations of the National Centre for Sport Development for the renewal of sports facilities in the overseas countries and territories. Indeed, the budget line reserved for the specific plan to catch up on these equipment has disappeared from the draft finance law for 2018. I would remind you that the funding for this plan was EUR 20 million; 10 million had already been paid last year, but the other 10 million, which were planned for this year, have disappeared. With this appeal amendment, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the urgent need to address territorial inequalities in the overseas territories. Madam Minister, you announced in the enlarged committee last week an envelope of EUR 7 to 10 million for overseas and Corsican sports equipment. You know the state of disrepair of the equipment of the ultramarine territories. It is at least EUR 10 million that will still be needed for the rehabilitation of the old structures and the construction of new ones. In these territories which have a lower standard of living than in Hexagon and a much higher unemployment rate, sport is not only a factor of health, but also and above all a factor of integration and social cohesion, especially for young people. I would be prepared to withdraw the amendment if you confirmed that this EUR 10 million envelope for sports equipment in the overseas countries and territories has been paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u201	Last week, the minister did indeed confirm the allocation of a dedicated envelope of EUR 10 million. With regard to the CNDS amendment, we saw earlier that an expenditure of between 20 and 30 million euros would be incurred through an amendment to the draft amending finance law for 2017. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u203	In fact, I committed myself, in an enlarged committee, to an envelope of EUR 7 to 10 million in 2018, under the second tranche of the target plan. This expenditure is made possible by the commitment made by the Government, during the discussion of the first part of the finance bill, to redo the CNDS from 20 to 30 million euros in the framework of the draft amending finance law for 2017. But it is also a question, beyond the quantitative leap, of going through a qualitative leap by putting these equipment in a strategic plan for the development of the sport coordinated and co-built locally between all the actors, and by launching a call for projects for innovative equipment concepts, different from traditional equipment – two to three at the most, such as health sports equipment – and, above all, adapted to geographical and climatic specificities: like you, Mr Mathiasin, I come from overseas and therefore also know the needs. The recent news in Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy has also shown us the need, beyond the treatment of the emergency, for a fundamental work on the equipment to be preferred in these territories. In view of these elements and the assurance given to you that the overseas equipment development plan will be maintained, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u204	Mr Max Mathiasin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u205	I am fully satisfied with your answer, Madam Minister, since you mentioned, in addition to your sporting qualities, your knowledge of the ultramarine territories. I have no doubt for a moment that you will be fighting within the Government for the implementation of this much-needed plan, even if there are 3 or 4 million missing. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u206	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u207	As the amendment has been withdrawn, Mr Di Filippo, it is no longer possible to speak about it. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No 398.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u208	I come back to my "dada", the allocation of funds. Earlier, Minister Juanico reminded you that the Secours populaire, at national level and via its various branches, had received nearly 500,000 euros in 2016 thanks to the funds allocated by eighty-six deputies – and of course by senators. This shows a will to dart as close as possible to the terrain. So I have a very concrete question: how do you envisage the role of parliamentarians in the local mission that will decide on the allocation of funds? Will they have a voice in the chapter? Will they be reduced to a role of godillot spectators, or will they be able to assert their will to support a particular association? On the other hand, are you in favour of setting up a committee within our House to define modus operandi as precisely as possible and, in doing so, avoid flouting in the various budgetary allocations next year? Having said that, Mr President, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u209	[[Smile]] I'm sorry, Mr Di Filippo: I still can't give you the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u210	Mrs Perrine Goulet, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 97 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u211	As has been said, the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games were recently awarded to France. Since the organisation of this event has often led to budgetary drifts – as recent examples show –, this amendment seeks to ensure, beyond the funds allocated by the State alone, the monitoring of all public funds used in this context, by means of a budgetary annex.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u213	The solution proposed here, which is therefore aimed at ensuring greater transparency and readability, is the only one we have found, to date, to associate in a comprehensive vision the expenditure of the State and that of the communities, be it the major cities, such as the city of Paris, or the regions, such as Marseilles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u214	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u215	The financial stake is essential, so I will vote for this amendment in my own capacity. I recall that 95% of the equipment planned for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 already exists or will only be temporary: this is one of the safeguards on the Parisian file against financial drifts. From this point of view, this file differs from many others that were mentioned, and which had seen their spending ceilings "explod" due to the many construction sites to be implemented. This is not the case here, which obviously does not prevent us from remaining vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u217	I am like you, the Special Rapporteur, committed to full transparency in funding the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. I see it as even a necessary condition for the French population to support this magnificent project for all French sport and for our country. For this reason, the Government has tabled an amendment on the PLF to create a new programme called "Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024" within the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission. This programme will include all State funding, amounting to EUR 1 billion, for the period 2018-2024. Other public funds from local authorities will finance the preparation of this event. As you know, every programme is accompanied by budget documents – annual performance projects, known as "PAPs", and annual performance reports, known as "RAPs" – that guarantee the quality of the information. It is in our collective interest to make financial data on the Games as accessible as possible: I am thinking in particular of open data access to data on Olympic structures, but also of the single point of access to market information. We must encourage the voluntary engagement of the candidates, both public and private, in order to improve the information of our compatriots. In view of these elements, the creation of the proposed Annex does not appear to be the most appropriate solution. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u218	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u219	[[Smile]] I would like to take advantage of the fact that the amendment has not yet been withdrawn and finally to take the floor. I also support the proposed measure, with two battle horses: transparency in terms of spending on the Olympic Games, and support for our sports associations and clubs. From this point of view, the provision goes in the right direction: once it is not customary, so I do not agree with the minister – but perhaps the vote will reconcile us. In any case, the Government and the majority will not emerge from the paradox in which they have locked themselves up, and have locked us up with them, with the suppression of the parliamentary reserve this summer. I am pleased that you have recognized, through the vote on the amendment to restore the EUR 25 million fund, the usefulness of these sums for our small clubs and associations. The disappearance of such a resource would have increased the risk of disparity within our territories. This summer, we requested at least the guarantee of a return of funds to our territories; But, as our colleague has pointed out, unfortunately the word of the State will not be respected: under the amendment we are debating, only half the sum will be returned to our associations. What other envelope, in the state budget, is thus halved? I'm asking you the question, minister. We also have deep disagreements about governance, on which the elected representatives of the territories will not have a say; Therefore, there is a great risk that it will focus on major metropolitan projects. I'm really calling your attention to the subject. At the end of our discussions today, Minister, Minister, you may well remain like the Robins des bois of this budget, having stolen 25 million euros from the associations to reallocate them we do not know yet what: at the Olympic Games or in the pot, not common – which could have benefited everyone – but jupiterian.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u220	We must support sport for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u221	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u222	The least we can do is to vote for this amendment because it would improve transparency. Clearly, this poses a problem to the Government: whenever we open the debate and ask for instruments of control over the allocation of public funds – which is basically our "job" – he opposes it. We will vote for this amendment, because the debate on the transparency of public funding, whether it be associations or the Olympic Games, is necessary. Ménard recalled earlier, associations, such as those dedicated to deradicalization, stole the French money and cost them very much without producing any results. I repeat, therefore, that greater transparency must be ensured. We therefore support this amendment with perfect common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u224	I have had other requests to speak, which I shall have access to in order to ensure a balance between the groups. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u225	Minister, I am very shocked – and I rarely use this term – by your opinion. You are announcing the creation of a program: very well. But where do you include local government spending?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u226	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u228	Smoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u229	Your system is "pschitt"! There's nothing! Earlier in the Finance Committee, your colleague Bruno Le Maire called for transparency on a very costly subject for public money. Where is transparency, with the rejection of this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u230	Transparency doesn't apply to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u231	Your position is shocking. You are committing France to high expenses, on which we support you. But how does transparency scare you? For the award of the Games – as for any international competition – tax exemptions have been negotiated with you, whether they are corporate tax, social security contributions, income tax or corporate property tax. Do you want me to run the whole list? And you refuse transparency? Who are we laughing at?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u233	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] The amendment by the Committee on Finance restores what must exist in any democracy: transparency. You refuse it. That's shocking. We shall therefore vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u234	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u235	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] The Group of the European People's Party supports this common sense amendment. The figures at stake have been recalled, and one of our amendments concerns a request for a report on the funding committed to the Olympic Games. Given what history teaches us in this area, transparency is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u236	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u237	I'll be brief and keep me from any controversy. The Committee on Finance, like the Group of the European People's Party, considers it necessary to ensure that all our citizens are properly informed by means of a document containing the entire expenditure. We know PAPs and RAPs well, Minister. They will indeed account for part of the expenditure, but the provision we are talking about seems necessary to get out of the controversy and avoid the double claim of too high or, on the contrary, insufficient costs. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] We will of course be open to another calibration, whether through a Government sub-amendment, second reading or CMP; But, in view of the transparency due to Parliament and, above all, to our fellow citizens, we will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u238	Finally, a majority that is not "godillot"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u239	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u241	For once, our colleagues in the majority are not "godillots"! It's changing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u242	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u243	This amendment seeks to provide Parliament with an information report on the organization and financing of the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, in order to analyse the budget allocated and assess the economic consequences of the event for the private and public sectors. Concern is shared across all ranks. The figures, in fact, are eloquent, since the budgets originally earmarked for the organization of the Olympic Games have always been exceeded, except in the case of Los Angeles in 1984, but the situation was then different. Only candidate, this city did not need to hide certain fees to be chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u244	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u245	Costs have always been exceeded on average by 179 % in real terms and 324% in nominal terms, the most obvious case being Sochi in 2014, where the final budget amounted to 37 billion for an estimated budget of 8 billion. We can also mention Beijing in 2008 – 2.6 billion euros in the forecast and 32 billion in the end – or Athens, where the Olympic Games would have helped to increase the debt by 2 to 3%. This report will also teach us how the Olympic Games will improve access to sport practices for all, the training of qualified professionals and public information. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This concern is shared here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u247	We have just adopted an amendment that will make it possible to increase transparency, and a budget line dedicated to the Olympics has been created. We do not need an additional report. I will therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u248	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u249	I can only oppose this amendment, because I believe first of all in Parliament's pre-eminence. Requesting a report from the Government is good, but asking Parliament to do its job is even better. To this end, you may ask for fact-finding missions or refer the matter to the Public Policy Review and Control Commission. Above all, a working group was established this morning to study the question of the Paris bid for the Olympic and Paralympic Games. I invite your group, as it already does, to participate actively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u251	I fully share your concern about the cost of organizing the Games, as well as their impact on the entire territory and sport practice. However, the request for a report on the organisation and financing of the Olympic Games in Paris in 2024 does not seem relevant given the information available elsewhere, and the adoption of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u252	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u253	Mr Bournazel, if we have indeed tabled several amendments to request reports from the Government, and not from Parliament, it is because the Government has more resources than Parliament. In addition, we want these reports to be written in partnership with diverse interlocutors, such as associations, which are more difficult for Parliament to solicit. Above all, you do not seem to be willing to show us a certain openness of mind, and we have the greatest difficulty in getting any information! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we are making these requests to the Government, which also enables us to raise the issues of concern to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u254	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u255	This amendment tends to require an information report on player transfers. While public servants regularly question this practice, no transparent information on the economic and fiscal burden of transfers is available. It is therefore essential to allow national representation to fulfil its duty of information when requested by its officials. The report would be drawn up by a working group involving the General Inspectorate of Youth and Sports, as well as representatives of national federations and different sports disciplines.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u257	As I indicated to you last week, honourable Member, this information is already available at the level of the National Management Control Directorate of the Professional Leagues. The information has been reinforced since January 2017 by an obligation to advertise. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u258	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u259	What is he expressing himself in?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u260	Unfavorable opinion. As a result of the parliamentary preeminence that I referred to at the moment, the Member is not merely voting the law, he must also carry out a monitoring mission. It would be good if he exercised it rather than constantly demanding reports from the Government. I respect your positions, and you are asking for reports on interesting matters, but you should first exhaust Parliament's potential.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u262	The law of 1 March 2017, aimed at preserving the ethics of sport, strengthening the regulation and transparency of professional sport and improving the competitiveness of clubs, has reinforced the obligations of the national control and management directorates. These directorates are required to produce an annual, public report containing transfer provisions. In addition, sports clubs are subject to the same rules as all private players in other economic sectors. As such, the accounts of these sports companies are certified by an auditor. There is also a contract certification commission within professional leagues that ensures the validity of contracts following the transfer of players. I therefore suggest that you withdraw this amendment, which is already satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u263	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u264	This amendment tends to ask the Government for an information report in order to have an objective view of the State's public funding for the sport sector. It will ensure a willingness to maintain and develop a coherent and equal sport policy throughout the country. In order to do so, it would therefore be necessary for a detailed assessment of this territorial distribution of public funds to emerge from this report, using various analyses. Thus, several levels can be addressed, such as the different territorial scales – region, department, city – the GDP per capita, the number of inhabitants per square metre or the rate of equipment per capita per square metre. To achieve these observations will contribute to an objective of assessing the impact on learning and practice conditions, the construction or renovation of sports facilities – municipal, associative, physical and sports classrooms –, the improvement of initial training and continuing training plans, the improvement of working conditions for teachers and sports workers, and access to a range of physical and sporting activities. It can be seen that, today, territorial equality is not respected. The teaching community is not the only one who suffers from the lack of resources allocated to sport. We therefore ask for this report in the service of parliamentarians, in order to highlight territorial financial inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u266	The information you request is available at several locations. First of all, you will find on the CNDS website all the information relating to the allocation of equipment, the accessibility of national equipment, the contractual policy, the financing of local equipment in the affected territories, the overseas plan, the inheritance of the Olympic Games or major international sporting events. If you want to go back a little bit, you can contact the Finance Committee to find out what funds have been allocated to the parliamentary reserve. You can still refer to the work of the mission of studies, observation and statistics, MEOS, which already publishes statistics, especially by communal bloc as you ask. Finally, you can consult the many budget appendices. I invite you to ask your parliamentary attaché to compile all this information. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u268	Opinion against this amendment, which is satisfied in substance. The information you wish to obtain is already provided for in the work of the Ministerial Statistical Service for Youth and Sport. In 2016, MEOS launched a project to redesign the study of the economic weight of sport, which will lead to significant improvements, both in substance and in form, in the financial data of communities and the state. Thus, since the 2017 edition, data on the economic weight of sport have been put online as an Excel table, more easily accessible to users. All tables have also been reviewed and present the latest available data. The national census of sports facilities, spaces and sites of practice, which is one of the priority actions of my Ministry, already makes it possible to better understand the realities and territorial inequalities in the distribution of equipment. Finally, the CNDS makes an annual detailed report of the key figures of the territorial share: subsidy thresholds, number of beneficiaries, amounts of grants paid, territorial distribution by type of structure – regional, departmental, club, territorial community –, by type of operational objective – support for employment, direct support for sports activity, support for training –, by target – female public, and persons with disabilities – and by type of territory – neighbourhoods in difficulty, urban areas, rural areas. I therefore do not consider it useful to add the filing of such a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u269	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u270	For my part, I would not be as harsh or contemptuous on this subject as the rapporteur and the minister, because this report is a good idea in that it targets territorial inequalities. In view of the changes that will not fail to occur, since you have done well – that is the term! – the missions of the CNDS and the sums allocated to it, since parliamentary reserves no longer exist and the new fund will be less abundant, it would be interesting to know where this money will go, and above all to compare periods.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u271	We're saving public money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u272	The Government is accountable for what has been done and decided. It would be useful to provide us with an ad hoc study rather than to conduct ourselves by boat by means of pass-through towers. Serious decisions were taken this afternoon, and this amendment is relevant. We will support it at 300 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u273	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u274	If all these data exist, are recent and updated, how do you explain that such territorial inequalities persist in terms of equipment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u275	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u276	How will we allocate them in view of the resources allocated with this budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u277	It is not reports that we need, but actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u278	I wonder how you use these reports, what they inspire you to conduct the current policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u279	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 255.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u280	I am sure that the minister, who has been titrated in a sport that brings many medals to our nation without always being recognized in the media, will be sensitive to this amendment that concerns the National School of Sailing and Water Sports. Sailing often contributes significantly to France's Olympic record. However, on the basis of a July 2017 report of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Sports does not hesitate to advocate a transfer to the Brittany region of the management competence of the École nationale de voile et des sports wateriques, located in Quiberon, which has trained many French champions. It goes so far as to mention a possible closure of the institution, which I am sorry for. In view of the large number of civil servants and contractors involved and our commitment to one of the long-standing aspects of sport in France – this institution was born in 1970, at a time when the role of the State in sport was considered important – we are concerned about the possible closure of this school, which justifies the request for a report to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u282	Be aware that I have identified this problem, since in my special report I draw attention to the situation of the École nationale de voile et des sportsnautiques, but also to the situation of the Institut Français du Cheval et de l'équeste, which is experiencing similar difficulties. The position of the minister I have asked on these issues suits me perfectly: it is a matter of giving these two institutions a few months to find a solution that will ensure their sustainability. The Minister informed me of her intention to establish a performance contract. I will therefore follow up on this issue in my special report and will be able to come back to you next year. Therefore, it does not appear necessary to request an additional report. Unfavorable opinion
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u284	In response to the Court of Auditors' reference, I have referred to several scenarios of evolution of the National School of Sailing and Water Sports so that it can regain its place in the system of high performance, better meet the needs of the world of sailing, and be less dependent on transfers from the State. A wide-ranging consultation involving all stakeholders, in particular local authorities, at the top of which the Brittany region – also a member of the public interest group Campus de l'excellence sportif de Bretagne – is engaged. I do not think there is any need to add a report at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u285	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u286	I heard the rapporteur. My arguments, if need be, have been made. But, after the minister's words, I prefer to keep the amendment to date and avoid ever learning that the school has been shut down noiselessly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u287	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u288	Since the reports you are asking us to consult are not followed by positive effects, at least, this amendment calls for the submission of a report to quantify the establishment of a compulsory citizen service. The civic service covers nearly 150,000 young people in 2018 alone. It represents a heavy budgetary cost and suffers from indescribable dysfunctions that hinder its primary mission: the promotion of engagement and the integration of young people into society. In fact, the appropriations allocated to this scheme have increased by EUR 59 million in one year, absorbing almost 82% of those of the Youth and Associative Life programme. However, despite this ponction on public finances, the integration of young people is not always at the rendezvous – temporary substitution of employment; lack of reception structure, tutoring, training; low remuneration, lower than SMIC. That is why we propose to establish a complete costing of what a compulsory citizen service could be, truly at the service of society and of national and social cohesion: in addition to military training initiating the renewal of a fully citizen army, it would offer men and women from all social backgrounds the opportunity to carry out tasks of general interest – relief to the population, protection and repair of the environment – with labeled associations. It would also provide an opportunity for free refresher education for young people in school difficulties and an effective fight against racist, gender-based and homophobic prejudices. By welcoming young people from all our territories and neighbourhoods, it would promote social equality, give life to fraternity and strengthen social ties, while giving meaning to community engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u290	When I read the beginning of your amendment, I was tempted to give a favourable opinion. But I gave up reading the summary. You confuse two different devices: the civic service is not intended to become compulsory; It fully meets its mission by welcoming 150,000 young people next year. An evaluation of this mechanism could be considered. In the summary statement, you mention a compulsory service, probably referring to the promise of the President of the Republic of Universal Service. The latter is not intended to replace civic service. Both devices meet different objectives. I suggest that you withdraw your amendment until you know whether your application concerns civic service or compulsory universal service, the contours of which are not yet specified and the funding of which is not included in the 2018 Finance Bill. These elements should be worked out in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u291	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u292	First of all, I would like to recall the formal argument I made earlier: use the means available to Parliament instead of asking for reports from the Government. Secondly, there is a contradiction in this amendment. The explanatory memorandum indicates that the civic service which you requested to abolish in a previous amendment is a means of effectively combating "all racist, sexist and homophobic prejudices, of promoting social equality by making human fraternity alive by welcoming young people from all our territories". I agree with you. The fight against discrimination of all kinds is precisely the subject of my report for opinion. But we cannot at the same time want to abolish civic service and recognize that it works well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u294	Member of the European Parliament, I understand some of your supporters, but not the ends. I'm not sure I understand the purpose of your criticism of civic service. Civic service is not perfect; It still has certain limitations and difficulties, which you are right to point out. But our work aims to strengthen a positive movement by improving it first quantitatively and then qualitatively, particularly in terms of social mix. We must avoid any confusion between the civic service based on commitment and the compulsory national service, which is of a different nature, to which I adhere. I agree with you on the need for a mechanism that promotes a national crucible, a sense of duty and the involvement of young people in national defence issues, but also in society. As you know, these concerns are based on the idea of a national service on which the President of the Republic committed himself during the presidential campaign. The Committee on Defence and Armed Forces has just launched an information mission on the universal national service – I think Mr Corbière is part of it. I suggest that you let this mission work, and perhaps provide answers to some of the questions you have asked. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u295	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u296	Mr Larive, very wisely, asks for a report. The ensuing debate is based on the summary presentation. But let us be clear: when it comes to adopting or rejecting an amendment, we are voting on the very text of the amendment and not on the summary statement, even if it may give rise to debate. Moreover, a request for a report addressed to the Government for a very simple reason, Mr. Bournazel, cannot be ruled out in principle: the means available to the Government are not at all the same as those available to Parliament today. In order to prevent the institutional imbalance that we are experiencing from continuing to increase, it is essential that the Government be able to report to Parliament when it so requests. Of course, as the rapporteurs have said, there is no need to vote on an amendment requesting information where it already exists. I note that this is not the case in the proposed amendment. However, it would be legitimate for us to have that information. That is why, personally, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u297	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u298	Mr Bournazel, we have never mentioned the abolition of civic service. I simply said that you wanted to make it a substitute for employment. If you want to create jobs, we will follow you, but create real jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u299	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u300	There's no confusion. This would be the first time that our colleagues in La France insoumée would support a proposal made by the President of the Republic during the campaign. Our colleagues want to turn a public policy based on volunteerism into a constraint. These are two completely different philosophical approaches: we are for freedom, you are for coercion. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I give an element to the reflection of our assembly. In his last year, the national service, in its military form, had brought together 225,000 young people. The civic service will have mobilized 130,000 of our young citizens on a voluntary basis this year. Next year they'll be 150,000. Our young people are mobilized, they are freely engaged. We have to support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u301	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 259.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u302	This amendment calls for the drafting of a report on the consequences of the fall in State allocations to local authorities on the subsidies granted to local sports associations. According to a study conducted in 2011, 19 per cent of the funding for local sports associations is provided by local authorities. These associations create social ties in many difficult territories. However, of the €300 million in appropriations cancelled in July 2017, €46.5 million concerned city policy, representing 11% of the total budget planned in 2017 to help the most difficult municipalities and thus improve the living conditions of their inhabitants. This report will assess the consequences of the Government's accounting logic in terms of reductions in subsidies and, consequently, the elimination of jobs for these associations. This is a necessary information that parliamentarians must have at their disposal in the performance of their duties. The report should be drawn up by a working group comprising members of the General Inspectorate of Youth and Sports, the Directorate-General for Budgets, the Directorate-General for Public Finance, the Directorate-General for Local and Regional Authorities and representatives of elected representatives in the executive bodies of the various territorial levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u303	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u304	Mr Ratenon, I do not share your view that there is a significant decrease in the state budget. As a reminder, local investment support allocations will remain stable in 2018, as well as the provision of equipment in rural areas. The CNDS will continue its work on priority neighbourhoods and ZRRs. As regards assisted jobs, priority neighbourhoods will continue to receive support, as will rural areas. If communities want to reorganize to reduce funding for sports associations, it's not our fault. I therefore do not understand your request for a report and I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. Let us repeat: the state endowment does not diminish. Depending on their internal management, communities decide whether or not to give money to associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u306	The 2018 Finance Bill does not provide for a reduction in state assistance to local and regional authorities. On the other hand, if the sport budget is undergoing a bold transformation, I have worked to ensure that there is no decrease in funding for sports federations: 76 million will be allocated to them for 2018, compared to 74.5 million for 2017, and an additional 1.5 million will be allocated to Paralympic federations. The priority geography of the CNDS is maintained. The report you are asking for is therefore not appropriate. I would therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u307	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u308	For the same reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion, even if this interesting subject deserves to be studied. Furthermore, Mr Larive, I have just read out Amendment No 293, which you defended earlier. The aim of the programme is to abolish all funds allocated to the civic service. I'm saying it so that things are clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u309	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u310	It is important to stress that this amendment is therefore in contradiction with Amendment No 257. Having said that, Mr Larive, I was pleased to work with you both in committee and in the Chamber. All the amendments are welcome, the discussion is free and there is no problem between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u311	You have read the explanatory memorandum, not the text of the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u312	Yes, I am referring to the text of the amendment, but not to the amendment under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u313	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u314	Amendment No 259 has at least one major interest: it highlights the impact of recent government decisions, like those of the previous government, on the world of sport, which is often the poor parent of politics. It is also the first sector in which we cut, when we have to make savings. The reduction in the number of assisted jobs, observed in recent months, will hit primarily sports associations, which need educators to train, educate and pass on to young French people the values of the Republic. On the other hand, the parliamentary reserve has been abolished. If it has just been partially reintroduced, it is difficult to talk about it, since it is not yet known how the new allocation of appropriations will be made. Finally, the allocation to local and regional authorities has fallen, which will certainly concern sport, as Mr Larive pointed out. This context is generally negative for the world of French sport, at a time when our country has just been entrusted with the organisation of the Olympic Games of 2024 – it has often been recalled this afternoon. In previous years, China, the United Kingdom or Australia had taken advantage of the Olympic Games to structure sport for all and develop their future champions. We regret that this budget does not yet carry this ambition for French sport. Maybe next year. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am sure, Madam Minister, that in your personal capacity you have other ambitions for French sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u315	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u316	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u317	In my view, the Government is in the process of mixing everything and it remains far from the reality on the ground. Unfortunately, today, communities, town halls, regardless of their label or political orientation, are in difficulty as a result of lower allocations to communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u318	They're strangled!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u319	In addition, the disappearance of assisted jobs puts sports and other associations in great difficulty. That is the reality of the ground. We therefore maintain our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u320	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u321	We completed the review of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1037.u322	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2018 Finance Bill: Review of the appropriations of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
