ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u1	The Parliament is convened in Congress in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic published in the Official Gazette of 29 June 2017. The next item is the statement by the President of the Republic pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. This statement will be followed by a debate. [[Mr. President of the Republic enters the Congress Chamber. – Mrs and Mr. Congressmen and members of the Government rise]] I invite the members of Congress to welcome the President of the Republic. Mr President of the Republic, on behalf of the Congress of Parliament, I welcome you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u2	Before I give you the floor, Mr President of the Republic, I would like to mention an example, a symbol, a reference. Simone Veil now occupies a special place in our national memory. Surviving the Shoah, she was able to draw on the tragedies that have disfigured our continent and absolved humanity, a force that has made her a determining actress of France's European commitment. [[Mr. President of the Republic, Mrs. and Mr. Congressmen and members of the Government observe a minute of silence]] It has played, after a concrete, difficult and victorious legislative struggle, a considerable role in the emancipation of women. She has always acted for the protection of the most fragile. Simone Veil's life bears witness more than any other to the price of freedom, the difficulty of fighting for equality, the urgent necessity of fraternity. Let us observe in his memory a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u3	Mr President of the Republic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u4	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, in its Article 18, the Constitution allows the President of the Republic to address Parliament in Congress for this purpose. There are hours which, of this possibility, make a necessity. The hours we live are those. On May 7, the French gave me a clear mandate. On 18 June, they increased their strength by electing a large parliamentary majority to the National Assembly. Today I want to talk to you about the mandate that the people have given us, the institutions that I want to change and the principles of action that I intend to follow. It is a thousand different paths that have led us here today, you and I, driven by the same desire to serve. And even if this desire does not have the same face, not the same shape, even if it does not carry the same consequences, we know you and I the source: this simple love of the homeland. Some have been doing politics for a long time. For others, including myself, this is not the case. You will support or fight according to your convictions the government that I have appointed, but at the end, we all know that something very deep unites us, animates us and engages us: yes, the simple love of the homeland, whether it is embodied in the solitude of the hills of Haute-Provence or the Ardennes, in the sadness of the great ensembles where part of our youth is damaged, in the countryside sometimes hard to live and work, in the industrial deserts, but also in the surprising joy of beginnings. From this love, we all draw, I believe, the same impatience, which is an impatience to act. It sometimes takes on the traits of voluntary optimism, other times those of sincere anger. It always derives from the same origin. We have received the mandate of the people. Whether it has been given to us by the entire nation or by the voters of an electoral district does not change its strength. Whether it has been cast by direct or indirect suffrage does not change its nature. Whether it was obtained some time ago or recently, following a campaign in which all opinions were able to express themselves in their diversity, and that you are incarnating these different opinions here today does not change the collective obligation on us. This obligation is that of a resolute and profound transformation, sharp with immobile years or agitated years, all with equally disappointing result. It is by this way that we will find what has been so missed: confidence in ourselves, the strength necessary to achieve our ideals. What is asked of us by the people is to reconnect with the spirit of conquest that has done so, and finally to reconcile it with itself. By electing you, in your radical novelty, to the National Assembly, the French people have shown their impatience towards a political world too often made up of quarrels or hollow ambitions, where we had lived until then. It was also in one way of looking at the policy that he gave leave. By giving their trust to women and men gathered here, the French have expressed an overriding expectation, the desire for a profound alternation, and I am sure that you are, here, all as conscious as I am. And I also know that senators are fully aware of this, although their election is older, because they have perceived, by their very nature, the new hopes that the expression of direct universal suffrage has given rise to. To be faithful to what the French people wanted therefore presupposes a certain form of asceticism, a reinforced demand, a particular dignity, and no doubt even more today than yesterday. Bad habits come back quickly, marked by an era of cynicism, discouragement and – I dare say – platitude. Many still speculate on a failure that would justify their scepticism. It will be up to you, it will be up to us to deny them; and it will also be up to us to convince all those who wait, who trust us from the tip of our lips, all those who have not voted, all those also that anger and disgust at inefficiency, our inefficiency often, have led to extreme choices, from one side or the other of the political chessboard, and which are choices of which France, in its greatness as well as in its happiness, has nothing to wait for. This mandate of the people, which we have received, what exactly is it? To know that, we have to get out of this climate of false trials in which the public debate has locked us up too long. We need to find air, serenity, the gondola. It takes an effort, because these false trials are numerous. Is it a matter of reforming labour law in order to free up and boost employment for the benefit of those who do not? We are told that it is a matter of adapting France to the cruelty of the globalised world or of satisfying the diktat of Brussels. Is it a matter of reducing our public spending to prevent our children from paying the price of our resignations? We will be told that we are questioning our social model. Is it a matter of getting out of the state of emergency? We will be told on the one hand that we are leaving France defenceless in the face of terrorism, and on the other hand that we are breaking our freedoms. Well, nothing, none of this is true. Behind all these false trials, we find the same vice, the vice that poisons the public debate for too long: denial of reality, refusal to see the real face to face in its complexity and constraints, blindness to a state of emergency that is both economic and social as well as security. On this point, I have always considered the French people to be wiser and wiser than many believe. So much so that I deeply believe that the mandate we have received from the people is both a demanding and profoundly realistic mandate, and that in order to fulfil it we must place ourselves beyond the sterility of these purely theoretical oppositions, which, if they guarantee fine success from the rostrum, do nothing. Our first duty is at the same time to regain the meaning and strength of an ambitious project of transformation of our country and to remain stowed to the real, to give nothing to the principle of pleasure, to the easy words, to the illusions, to face the reality of our country in all its forms. This mandate of the French people, therefore, what is it? First, it is the mandate of the sovereignty of the nation. It is to be self-sufficient, despite the constraints and disruptions of the world. Let's face it. The forces of alienation are extremely powerful. Alienation to the new division of labour, which is sketched in a world in profound transformation, where digital recomposes entire sectors of the economy, shakes balances and jobs. Alienation to misery, poverty, if we do not allow everyone to find a job that corresponds to him or her and that he or she is happy to perform, a place and dignity that are his or her own in society. Financial restraint, if we do not restore our budget, if we do not reduce our public debt. Alienation to the will of other countries, both in Europe and in our alliances, if we do not put our affairs in order. Alienation to Islamist terror, if we do not find the way to destroy it without giving it anything of our values, of our principles. Alienation of our future, if we fail to organize the ecological transition, to protect the planet. Alienation of our life in what it has more daily, if the food we eat, the air we breathe, the water we drink are imposed on us, and for the worst, by the forces of an international competition that has become anarchic. I firmly believe that, on all these points, the people have given us the mandate to restore its full sovereignty. But it is also the mandate of the progressive project, of a project of profound transformation and change, which is given to us. Our fellow citizens have made the choice of a country that is moving forward, regaining optimism and hope. They did so because they know well, because we know well that, in a world shaken by profound changes, without this movement, without this creative energy, France is not France. They know, because it has been our common experience in recent years, that a France that has been arrested is fading, is divided, that a France that is afraid, crunched and victimized, is exhausted in sterile quarrels and produces nothing but misfortune, individual misfortune and collective misfortune. It's here, our historic mission. This mission, mine, that of the Government, yours, is not devolved to a small number. It is devolved to all, because everyone has their share. France has treasures of creativity, inexhaustible resources. But I don't just think there about all our talents, I think of every Frenchman, every Frenchman, anxious to do well and lead a life worthy of him. It is there, the real wealth of a country and the mandate given to us is to create unity where there was division, to give back to those who are excluded the simple dignity of existence, their rightful place in the national project, to allow those who create, invent, innovate, undertake, realize their plans, to return power to those who want to do – and do. The mandate of the people is not to establish the government of an elite for itself, it is to restore to the people this collective dignity that is not accompanied by any exclusion. Only here: so far, too often, we have gone wrong. We preferred procedures to results, the settlement to initiative, the pension society to the justice society. And I deeply believe that, through his recent choices, our people are asking us to take a radically new path. For my part, I refuse to choose between ambition and the spirit of justice. I reject this dogma, according to which, in order to build equality, excellence must be renounced, and that, in order to succeed, we must not give up giving everyone a place. The very salt of our Republic is to know how to combine these demands, yes, to do all this, in a way, at the same time. This path disorients, I can hear, all those who had become accustomed to careers on old patterns. This is the case at every time, when renewal is needed and anxiety in some places can arise. But we have to appreciate the efforts that will be imposed on us by this tremendous thirst for renewal that we, you and I, are the bearers of. The mandate of the people is also the mandate of trust and transparency. We are an old political people. Politics is important to our citizens. We ask him everything, sometimes too much; We often resent him, sometimes too much too. And it is because it is essential to this point that the French had ended up exasperated to see hope confiscated. But you are here, all of you, the custodians of this desire for change that we are forbidden to betray. And this change must also be about behaviour. There can be no reform without confidence. There can be no confidence if the political world continues to appear, even if it is most of the time unfair, like the world of small arrangements, to a thousand leagues of the concerns of the French. The law that the Government will propose to your vote has no other purpose. We have already changed for several years, and we have changed to good. We have stopped supporting what seemed almost normal in the past – opacity, clientelism, conflicts of interest, everything that comes under a form of ordinary corruption, almost impalpable. However, no one is blameless. For if the requirement is to be constant, if we are all custodians of the dignity that belongs to our functions and every day obliges us, perfection does not exist. Yes, we want a society of trust, and for that, a law is not enough. It's a daily behavior. But we also want this confidence because the society of widespread delation and suspicion, which was so far the consequence of the impunity of some powerful, does not please us any more. The law of the Government will be passed, I have no doubt. But after it has been, I call for restraint, I call for an end to this incessant search for scandal, the permanent rape of the presumption of innocence, with this manhunt where reputations are sometimes destroyed, and where the recognition of innocence, months, years later, does not make the tenth of the noise that the initial indictment had made. This frenzy, which has affected all camps for so many months and sometimes so many years, is unworthy of us and of the principles of the Republic. The mandate of the people is finally the mandate of historical fidelity. The French asked their government to remain faithful to the history of France. There is still a need to agree on the meaning of these words. In recent years, history has been taken hostage by political debate. We have seen the flourishing of pro-colonial history and that of repentance, identity and multicultural history, closed history and open history. It is not up to the executive or legislative powers to decree the national novel, whether they wish to give it a "reactionary" form or a "progressive" form. This does not mean that the history of France does not exist; that you should not be proud of it, while looking lucidly at its parts of shadow, its basses. But for us, it must take the form, not of a comment, not of a claim or transformation, but of a determined action in favour of the best. Because it is in this action that we can find the great examples of the past, feed on them and prolong them. And in the end, we, too, will have made history, without unduly claiming what it could be, but by looking at the real and keeping our minds and our wills stretched towards the best. That is what we call progressism. It's not to think that anything new is necessarily good. It's not about marrying all the fashions of time. It is, at every moment, not after a step, to discern what needs to be corrected, amended, rectified, which, in some places, must be more deeply re-founded, which is lacking in society to become more just and more effective or, more precisely, more just because more efficient, more efficient because more just. It is an ethic of action and shared responsibility. It is fidelity to our history and to our republican project in action. For the Republic is not fixed laws, abstract principles; It is an ideal of freedom, equality, fraternity, every day reprehensible and rethought to the test of reality. Political action has meaning only if it is precisely accomplished in the name of a certain idea of man, his destiny, his unsurpassable value and his greatness. This idea, France has been carrying it for a long time. Nothing else should count in our eyes. It is not the entrepreneurial society we want, or the society of the balance of public finances, or the innovation society. All this is good, all this is useful. But they are only instruments in the service of the only valid cause, a cause to which the name of France has been attached for a long time. And this cause is the cause of man. We differ between ourselves, and here, on the means. But I am sure that we do not differ on this goal, and know it, and remind us constantly, sometimes in the worst moments, should give back to our public debate this dignity, this greatness which, on the basis of so many abandonments and collective failures, has cruelly missed it in recent years. It is on the basis of this mandate of the people that we have to build our policy for the next five years. You will have understood, and you already know, intimately, we do not have before us five years of adjustments and half-measures. The French are animated not by a patient curiosity, but by an intransigent demand. It's the profound transformation they're waiting for. That they hope. That they demand. Let's not fear her. Let's kiss her, on the contrary. The charter of our action was laid down during the campaign and you know the milestones, on which I will not return. Commitments will be fulfilled. The reforms and profound transformations that I have undertaken will be carried out. The Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, whom I have appointed to be the custodian, at the head of the Government, of these commitments, will present the implementation of these commitments in his policy speech. But all this will be possible only if we have a strong Republic, and there is no strong Republic without strong institutions. Born of troubled times, our institutions are resistant to crises and turbulence. They have shown their strength. But like all institutions, they are also what men do with them. For several decades now, the spirit that brought them forth has been damaged by renunciation and bad habits. As a guarantor of the proper functioning of public authorities, I will act by following three principles: efficiency, representativeness and accountability. Efficiency first. We need time to think the law. Time to design, discuss and vote on it. Time also to ensure the proper conditions for its application. To want our institutions to be more effective is not to sacrifice to the cult of speed, it is to give priority to the result. Let us stop the legislative proliferation. This disease, we know it: it has been so much and so named, and I myself fear, in a previous life, that I have participated in it. It weakens the law, which loses part of its strength and, certainly, its meaning in the accumulation of texts. Such circumstances, such unforeseen circumstances, such novelty cannot dictate the work of the legislator. For the law is not meant to accompany the small steps of our country's life. It is designed to frame deep trends, important developments, essential debates, and to set a course. It clearly accompanies the beginnings of a mandate, but to legislate less then, it is to devote more attention to fundamental texts, to these laws coming in response to a legal vacuum, coming to light a new situation. That is the role of Parliament. Less legislating is better to allocate parliamentary time. In particular, this time is reserved for monitoring and evaluation. I know that many of you have already given much thought to this, and I do not underestimate the progress made in recent years in this area, but we must go even further, because voting the law cannot be Parliament's first and last step. Our societies have become too complex and too fast for a piece of legislation to have its full effect without itself encountering the principle of reality. The voice of the citizens concerned by the texts you are voting on cannot be perceived as an attack on the dignity of the legislator. She's life, she's real. It is what you work for, we work for. That is why monitoring the application of a law, ensuring its relevance over time, its effects over time to correct it or to return to it has now become a strong obligation. For all these reasons, I hope that a comprehensive assessment of all the important texts, such as those on social dialogue and the fight against terrorism, which we have recently laid the foundations for, will be carried out within two years of their implementation. It is even desirable to assess the usefulness of older laws in order to open up the possibility of abrogating laws that have in the past been too quickly adopted, poorly constructed, or whose existence today would be a hindrance to the proper functioning of French society. Finally, the pace of law design must be responsive to the needs of society. It is a matter of urgency that the pace of parliamentary work does not allow us to deal with it quickly enough. Consider guiding digital practices in the protection of copyright, the privacy of our citizens, or national security. Our collective time is too slow today. In the long run of legislative work, which I have just mentioned, the ability to act quickly must be added. Thus, the shuttle could be simplified. I even think you should be able, in the simplest cases, to vote the law in committee. All of this, you have a lot of work to do with many of you; All this needs to be seriously studied, but now to do so. I know nothing about the constraints on you. The lack of resources, the lack of teams, the lack of space, partly contradicts the imperatives of efficiency that I submit to you. To this end, it is a measure long wanted by our compatriots that I believe is essential to implement: a reduction in the number of parliamentarians. A smaller Parliament, but strengthened in its resources, is a Parliament where work becomes more fluid, where parliamentarians can surround themselves with better trained and more numerous collaborators. It is a Parliament that works better. That is why I will propose a one-third reduction in the number of members of the three constitutional assemblies. I am convinced that this measure will have a positive impact on the overall quality of parliamentary work. The French, for the most part, are also certain. This indispensable reform, which must be carried out by ensuring the fair representation of all the territories of the Republic – hexagonal and ultramarine – is not intended to nourish the anti-parlementarianism of the environment, on the contrary. It aims to give the elected representatives of the Republic more power and weight. The duty of efficiency cannot only affect Parliament. The executive must take its part. First and foremost, with regard to Parliament. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to reserve to you, and through you, to the French, my first political expression since my election. Too many of my predecessors have been criticized for not pedagogicizing their actions or for exposing the meaning and course of their mandate. Too many of them, too, have taken initiatives of which Parliament was only secondarily informed, so that I can content myself with repeating the method. Every year, I will come back before you to see you. While the consideration and benevolence that this translates to Parliament appears to some as a reprehensible drift, it is undoubtedly that they have a vague conception of their role as parliamentarians and of the role of the President of the Republic, which is poorly masked by doctrinal arrogance or sectarianism. It was still a matter of concern that representatives of the people were failing to comply with the rules of the constitution that had them elected. Sieyes and Mirabeau did not, I believe, desert so quickly the mandate entrusted to them by the people. The President of the Republic shall determine the meaning of the quinquennium; That's what I came to do in front of you. It is up to the Prime Minister, who leads the Government's action, to give effect to it. It is his responsibility to ensure the coherence of actions, to carry out transformations, to render arbitrations and, with the ministers, to present them to you. I hope that this responsibility will make sense. That is why I will ask the Prime Minister to assign to each of the clear objectives which he will report annually to him. Similarly, efficiency requires ministers to be at the heart of public action and to find more direct contact with their administration. The reduction, which I wanted to make to ten, in the number of cabinet employees, such as the renewal of all heads of headquarters, is a priority. The aim is to give the Directors of Administration with the full confidence of the Government the direct knowledge of the policy they will have to implement, and to share, within the Government and throughout the administration, this responsibility, which the people have set for us. The ministers themselves will not lose sight of the conditions for the implementation of their policy, subject to the obligation of result by the road map which binds them to the Prime Minister. To this end, I want a more deconcentrated administration, which advises more than it punishes, which innovates and experiments more than it compels. This is the virtuous circle of efficiency. It is this administration that must give all territories the means to act and to succeed. For, in the end, our democracy feeds only on action and our ability to change daily and real life. The concern for efficiency will not suffice to restore to our democracy the oxygen which, for too long, it was deprived of. If we have to put an end to the ineffective Republic, we must end the Republic as well from short breath, from small calculations, from routine. We will find the deep breath of democracy only in the renewal of the variety of reality, with the diversity of this French society away from which our institutions have held themselves too carefully, admitting change only for others, but not for them. The reality is plural; Life is plural. Pluralism is an imperative for our institutions, which are weakening in their own right. We have brought here the great French diversity. It is social, professional, geographical, gender and origin, age and experience, beliefs and commitments. It is a unique ally of skills and destiny, of which you are the faces of today. We did not compose it as a learned chart: we simply opened the doors to the citizens to whom the political world refused access. I hope that this renewal will seal the return of the debate that dogmas do not blind, the sharing of ideas that corporalism does not distort. That is also why I believe in the virtue of pluralism, full respect for oppositions. Not because it is a use, but because it is the dignity of democratic debate. This will be our ardent responsibility. Representativeness, however, remains an unfinished fight in our country. I wish to lead him with you resolutely. I will therefore propose that Parliament be elected with a proportional proportion so that all sensitivities are represented. It is for this same purpose that we will limit the cumulation of mandates over time for parliamentarians. This is the keystone of a renewal that will not happen under the pressure of citizen exasperation but will become the normal rhythm of democratic respiration. Parliamentarians themselves will see their mandate as an opportunity to move the country forward and not as the key to a life course. It is other institutions of the Republic that time has frozen in the situations acquired, when the true meaning of their mission would have been to embody the living movement of French society. The Economic, Social and Environmental Council is one of those. Its mission was to create a link between civil society and political bodies, consisting of constructive dialogue and effective proposals. This founding intention was a little lost. I wish we could get back to her. The Economic, Social and Environmental Council must become the chamber of the future, where all the living forces of the nation will circulate. In order to achieve this, we must, while reducing the number of its members by a third, thoroughly review the rules of its representativeness. As this is acquired, we will make this assembly the hub of public consultations, and the only one. The state does not work, does not reform without consulting. That's normal. But there has been a proliferation of consultation bodies, to the point that we can no longer even count them. They all have their justification, they represent a vibrant part of civil society. But that was the initial role of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. By reforming it, we will make it the sole forum for consultation provided for in all our texts. This will be an element of a greater representativeness of our civil society, and at the same time an element of simplification of our procedures, of simplification of the fabric of the law. This council must be able to become the forum of our Republic, bring together all the sensitivities and skills and give a place to the expression of all the sensitivities of the world of business and work – entrepreneurs as well as trade unions, employees as well as self-employed – but also associations and non-governmental organisations. At the same time, I hope that the right to petition will be reviewed so that the direct expression of our citizens is better taken into account and that the proposals of the French can be presented, within a defined framework and built up, to national representation. Here too, it is about the representativeness of our democracy. A representativeness that would live, not only once every five years, but on a daily basis, in the action of the legislator. Based on a greater representativeness, driven by the desire for efficiency, the democratic debate, and in particular the parliamentary debate, will, I am sure, regain its vitality. The desire to act and move society forward will regain its first place in our institutions, and it will join the other sovereign principle that we have too often given up, that of responsibility. A parliamentary activity revitalised by a clear course, better-built debates, is a Parliament that is better able to exercise its control mission, without which the executive's responsibility does not live, is weakened. I hope that in Parliament both the majority and the opposition can have even more resources to give an outline and a requirement to the political responsibility of the executive. Ministers themselves must be held accountable for acts performed in their ordinary functions. That is why I want the abolition of the Court of Justice of the Republic. The right organisation will have to be found, but our fellow citizens no longer understand why only ministers could still have an exceptional jurisdiction. Ensuring accountability throughout our institutions also means ensuring the full independence of justice. It is an ambition that must remain, despite the impasses and half-failures encountered in the past. I hope that we will finally achieve this separation between the executive and the judiciary, by strengthening the role of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, and by limiting the involvement of the executive in the appointments of prosecutors. At the very least, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary should give assent to each appointment of such judges. It is a profound change in the practices and rules that I call for. I do not ignore the institutional and constitutional evolution that this requires. That is why I would ask the Commissioner for Seals and the competent ministers, as well as the Presidents of both chambers, to make concrete proposals for the autumn to achieve this objective. I hope that the totality of the profound changes which I have just detailed and which our institutions desperately need will be completed within a year and that half-measures and cosmetic arrangements will be kept. These reforms will be put to your vote, but, if necessary, I will use the vote of our fellow citizens by referendum. For this is nothing less than to weave between the French and the Republic the relationship that has dissolved in the mechanical exercise of power. I want to wake up with you the sense of the civic pact. I want efficiency, representativeness and accountability to make a contractual Republic emerge clearly and strongly. Trust goes hand in hand with accountability. The action is carried out in a framework shared between the agent and the principal, and not in the course of the circumstances. That is the meaning of this social contract that underpins the Republic. What we will do for the institutions of the Republic, I would also like to do for our territories. Let us not fear the establishment of trust agreements with the territories. We all know how diverse our France is and how important the intimacy of public decision-makers with the field of their action is. Jacobine centralization too often reflects the elementary fear of losing part of its power. Let's conjure her. Let us dare to experiment and deconcentrate, it is essential for rural areas as well as for difficult neighbourhoods. Let us dare to conclude true girondin pacts with our territories and elected representatives, based on trust and responsibility. The Conference of Territories, which will soon be launched and led by the Prime Minister, responds to this concern. It will not only be a budget or financial conference, but also find ways to adapt our policies to local realities – I am thinking in particular of the overseas communities, which must have every means to succeed. It is the same spirit of trust that underpins this contractual Republic that we are already making progress in society and the world of work by giving those who are closest to the reality of the enterprise a greater capacity to regulate their daily lives, not in the balance of forces, but in an agreed and shared framework. We all know that trust requires greater care than the unilateral use of authority. We also know that it produces greater results and that it provokes this harmony without which there is no sustainable civilian life. France has experienced enough ordeals and has known enough grandeur to not be this child-people that we are lurking with illusions. Every Frenchman has his share of responsibility and his role to play in the coming conquest. By regaining the spirit of our institutions, we will restore to the whole nation the feeling of regaining control of its destiny and the pride of taking over the thread of its history. That is the very condition for the reconciliation of our country. To be at the meeting that the people have given us, we are not allowed to wait. That is why I will need, for our Republic, the mobilization of all around some great principles of action. It is not a matter for me to decline the action of the Government, as some people like to fear or wish for. This is the Prime Minister's task, it is the very meaning and strength of our institutions. And I'm not going to scratch all sectors, trades and territories here either. Nevertheless, let everyone know that these great principles apply to all. The first principle must be the search for strong freedom. In economic, social, territorial and cultural matters, our duty is to emancipate our citizens, that is, to allow them not to suffer their lives but to be in a position to choose it, to be able to "do" where, too often, our rules hinder the pretext of protecting. I believe in this spirit of the Enlightenment which makes our goal, in the end, is indeed the autonomy of the free, conscious and critical man. Too many of our citizens today still feel trapped in their social origins, in their condition, in a path they are undergoing. The enclave, isolation, lack of access to transport and all forms of necessity of this new century assign to residence millions of our compatriots. The strong freedom we have to build is this fight for all mobility, this fight for access, this fight for no one of our fellow citizens to be excluded from the paths of progress, the right to do, to try, to fail perhaps, or to succeed. It is the fight for economic and social mobility through work and by the effort for all our citizens, regardless of their neighbourhood, their first name and their origin. It is the fight for full equality between women and men, this beautiful fight which our country lost, just a few days ago, an essential figure in Mrs Simone Veil. Strong freedom is the freedom to choose one's life. For freedom is what reconciles, precisely, justice and efficiency, the possibility of doing and true equality, the freedom to experience, to deceive and to try again. We are no longer embarking on a long journey. Our lives are explorations, attempts, research. Let us invent this freedom with the new individual protections that accompany it, by providing education, training and security useful at the major stages of life, precisely to build an existence. That is the whole meaning of the profound economic and social transformations that the Government will have to carry out in the coming months: to free and protect, to allow innovation by building a place for everyone. And I hope that he will not give in to false promises, or to a freedom that will forget all individual security, because, at the end, it promises misfortune, or to the society of the statutes, which, in the name of the rules acquired, claims to protect, when so much and so are at the edge of the road, when unemployment is at the level that one knows and exclusion where it is. Wanting strong freedom is all that. In these times of terrorism, wanting strong freedom means ensuring the security of everyone and ensuring full respect for individual freedoms. Here I want to speak frankly about what, too often, we do not dare to name: Islamist terrorism and the means to combat it. What do we owe to the victims? What do we owe to our compatriots who died? What do we owe to France bereaved by these murders marked by the seal of cowardice, stupidity, blindness? Certainly not to limit ourselves to the victim's mind or to commemoration alone. We owe them fidelity to ourselves, to our values, to our principles. To give up is to grant the nihilism of the murderers his most beautiful victory. On the one hand, I will restore the freedoms of the French by lifting the state of emergency in the autumn, because these freedoms are the condition for the existence of a strong democracy. Because abandoning them is a confirmation to our opponents that we must refuse them. The opponents of democracy have always claimed that it is weak and that, if it wanted to fight, it would have to abandon its great principles. It is exactly the opposite that is true. The criminal code as it is, the powers of the magistrates as they are, can, if the system is well ordered, well organized, allow us to destroy our opponents. On the other hand, giving the administration unlimited powers over people's lives, without any discrimination, makes no sense, either in terms of principles or in terms of efficiency. But on the other hand, I hope that Parliament can vote on these new provisions, which will further strengthen us in our struggle. They must explicitly target terrorists, to the exclusion of all the other French. They will include enhanced measures, but under the supervision of the judge, in full and permanent compliance with our constitutional requirements and our traditions of freedom. Democracy has not been conceived simply for calm times. It is especially true for times of trial. It is there, the path of efficiency, and it is the same path as that of values. A country united around its principles, a society fully aware of what founded it, is invincible. That is exactly the deep meaning of the texts you will have to examine. They aim to free us from fear, from alienation to the will of our adversaries. We will work to prevent any further attack, and we will work to repress them, without mercy, without remorse, without weakness, all the more forcefully because we have not given in to anything that constitutes us. Here I am making a commitment to you and, beyond that, to the French people. To respond to terrorists is not to change our Constitution every morning, it is not to renounce the principles of our Republic. Because, let us recall, it was at the height of the Algerian war that this provision of our Constitution was built, written and passed, which provides precisely that the judicial authority is the guardian of our freedoms. So let us show ourselves worthy, today, of the firmness of souls of those who preceded us in trials. Finally, strong freedom is always, in France, freedom of conscience, i.e. intellectual, moral, spiritual freedom. Of this freedom, France must be the indispensable haven. Education and culture are the keys to this. They are at the heart of our action because, in this respect, nothing is ever acquired. The progress of obscurantism thus reminds us of the ideal of the Enlightenment. Secularity is the indispensable corollary. To these principles and ambitions, the Republic has been able to give in to nothing because they are the very condition of the autonomy of our citizens. From this liberal, open, generous culture, we must redo together the singularity of France, because that is where it always shines. Within the globalised culture, which is sometimes seen to be a worrying proliferation, the voice of France and of French culture must occupy an eminent place, involving all Frenchmen in metropolis and overseas. But this freedom would not stand unless our second principle of action was to regain the foundation of our fraternity. Our people are not made up of just over sixty million people who would live together. It is indivisible, precisely because what holds it is stronger than mere rules or organizations. It is a repeated commitment every day that means that our citizenship is never abstract and cold, but that it is full and complete by this fraternal bond that unites us and whose strength we must regain. One of the tragedies of our country is that this commitment is simply impossible for those who are constantly rejected by the dysfunctions of our sclerotic systems at its margins. During this quinquennium, it will be up to us to take the real measure of this question, to redefine our means of action, without being stopped by old habits, by involving the State, the communities, the associations, the foundations, all the French and the committed French – often volunteers – and all the entities that, private or public, work for the general interest and for the dignity of the people. We must replace the idea of social assistance, public charity, partial arrangements, a real policy of inclusiveness. National representation will find it an issue, a challenge to it. Don't be mistaken: this question is probably the deepest, the most serious one. Because today our society is divided between, on the one hand, selfishness tempted by the mermaids of globalization, who would like to make believe that we can succeed to a few, that nomads, in a way, would dictate their law, and, on the other hand, the teachers of lessons, the followers of an unarmed moral, who would like us to forget all the constraints of the real to take care of a part of society. [[Applause]] There will be no French success if each one does not have his place, if all those who live in poverty – to put a name on this reality –, in poverty, in exclusion, who are deprived of this august road that some can take, do not have their place as well. It's our duty. This will involve profound economic and social reforms on which you will have to make decisions and which you will have to vote. They are indispensable, and they will enable us to revive this energy without which our society is nothing. But it will also be necessary to know how to find, for what Georges Bataille called our "cured part", a place, a consideration, a real answer, at last. For the sense of belonging, in the end, exists less than before. Our modern societies tend to divide themselves according to each other's interests, selfishness and ideas. Here again, in public action, it is up to us to resist the forces of division, the effects of dislocation which are at work and which are in no way invincible if the means are given. Our solidarity must therefore be restored to concrete forms. The school is the first crucible; our university, then; our families, too; our culture. Language, access to knowledge, openness to possibilities that bring us together to forge a people. These organic solidaritys, which we have misestimated, are also what holds our society. In the face of the moral and civilizational crisis that we are experiencing, we must know how to forge these deep solidaritys again and a powerful and desirable imagination where everyone will find their place. That is also the answer we must give to what is corrupting society. I was talking earlier about Islamist terrorism. Of course, there must be a security response, but it will be of no use, it will only be a daily pursuit, if through education, culture, deep morals – in the full sense of the word – that must infuse our society, our collective imagination and our solidarity, again, we do not decide to rebuild what holds us like a people one, this people whose history constitutes the deep energy, that thanks to which it has risen from so many and so many dramas, without ever weakening. The answer to everything we live in is not laws or regulations; It is this collective dignity regained, it is this will to do at every moment. It is this responsibility of each and every one of us, in society, to restore meaning, to know who we are, why we are here, what is dear to us, to have at every moment in mind the nature of the challenge that is ours and to give nothing to the leprosy of the spirit of the moment, the spirit of division, of the accusation. It is all that will last: what is beyond us, what has done to us, what has forged us. The third principle of action of our mobilization will be to give way to French intelligence. By intelligence, of course, I mean the great discoveries, the researchers, our great physicists, our great doctors, the inventors, the innovators, everything that has done and still makes our country proud. It is there, still present, strong, in all territories. We must recognize it, show it; We need to know how to celebrate it where too many times we have preferred to jealousy. I think of writers, philosophers, historians, filmmakers who continue to bring to the world this view free of prejudice that makes our strength; I think of the painters and musicians who put politics in its right place, by making us see a way beyond the immediate existence that renders the human condition its greatness, its beauty, often its tragic. To restore its place to French intelligence is also to refuse to accept all these inconsistencies that undermine us. And we will succeed only at the cost of a genuine effort of collective reflection. We cannot, for example, continue to strongly affirm our commitment to the principles of asylum while refraining from thoroughly reforming a system which, overwhelming on all sides, does not allow humane and just treatment of requests for protection from men and women threatened by war and persecution – the so-called "freedom fighters" in 1946. To restore its place to French intelligence means to make our country the centre of a new humanist project for the world, the place where we will conceive, will create a society that regains its equilibrium: production and distribution rather than accumulation by a few, healthy and sustainable food, fair finance, digital service to man, the end of the exploitation of fossil energies and the reduction of pollutant emissions. And we will not do it because it is fashionable or to please some, but because it is this level of ambition that has always been ours. It is precisely when everyday life is difficult, when we have to reconcile so many opposites and when short-term selfishness incites inaction that we must move forward, define a course, hold it, and invite the world to follow it, for this is the vocation of France. [[Smile]] France is not a country that is reforming; It would be wrong to say so. Forgive me, Prime Minister, for announcing this bad news to you today before Congress. France is a country that resists for as long as it is possible not to reform, a country that hides itself when it is spoken badly, when it is not explained, when it is not respected, when it is not spoken to its dignity and intelligence. But it is a country that, in the face of each of the challenges that should have brought it down, has profoundly changed, has been able to find within itself this sense of the history of humanity that has done so. This is your challenge today, our challenge. You will pass, we will probably spend days and nights on matters that affect the daily lives of our fellow citizens and will each have their own importance. However, it will always be that course, that horizon that we must have in mind. To restore its place to French intelligence, finally, is to understand that the French are, precisely, intelligent enough to make their way on their own. Public interventionism should be detoxified not by the French, but by the state itself. The weakest must of course be protected, especially in labour law. Of course, we must recognize the essential part of our public services and of all our officials who, day and night, without sparing their energy, are precisely the strength of our country. But to protect the weakest is not to transform them into minors who are unable, as permanent assistance from the State, to its verification and control mechanisms. On the contrary, it is to give them the means to weigh effectively – and alone – on their destiny. Every effort will be made to restore to the French this autonomy that was disputed and then confiscated. To restore its place to French intelligence means to enable everyone, in each territory, to succeed, to commit themselves. I turn now to the last principle of the action I intend to take: to build peace. As we know, this world in which we draw a new path for France and faithful to its ancient vocation is a dangerous world. Our environment, including our immediate environment, is characterized by the accumulation of threats. It is the shadow of war that, in every new crisis, is looming. Global deflagration is no longer the spectre that only pessimists brandish: it is for realistics a serious hypothesis. The assertions of power come back or emerge. Terrorist movements are developing in many regions, with means that increase their nuisance capacity. They are here, within our societies. Regional wars are reaching new degrees of barbarity. Yesterday's alliances collapsed, the multilateral order doubted itself, and authoritarian regimes or illiberal democracies flourished. Cyberspace spreads and amplifies the instruments of these wars at all against all. The drift of the world imposes its erratic rhythm, its excesses of all kinds, destroying man, uplifting him, erasing his memory, shaking his imagination. This is the world in which we live today. It is not a question of apprehending him with a defamed pessimism. No, this state imposes on us rather duties – the most serious, no doubt, that a nation has to assume – especially that of keeping the path of negotiation, dialogue and peace open everywhere in the face of the most sinister undertakings. France's vocation, its fidelity to its history, is to build peace and promote the dignity of people. That is why, everywhere, we must act first and foremost to protect our interests and, first and foremost, our security. This has led me to reaffirm our commitment in the Sahel and in the Levant, to fight terrorism and all fanaticism, in our interest as well as in that of the peoples concerned. And I know the commitment of our armies every day for so many months. Such action, however, can only be effective if it is sustained, if it is therefore aimed at building political solutions to the crisis. This implies knowing, in all these regions, to speak with all the powers, including those that do not share our goals or values, in order to find a way out and build it. I will not propose that we substitute ourselves for other peoples, on the pretext of imposing our principles or values elsewhere, because I do not want new failed states to appear. France must always respect, at the same time as it fights terrorism and all excesses, at the same time as it protects its own security and values, the sovereignty of peoples. But wherever freedoms are not respected, we will work, through our diplomacy and development actions, to help minorities; We will work in the service of societies for the respect of rights. This implies a demanding, sometimes long and ungrateful work, which requires that France be placed at the heart of the dialogue between nations. I have been doing this for several weeks, from Mali to Ukraine and Syria, through the Gulf, through which I exchange in depth with all the world's leaders. France must everywhere contribute to building or rebuilding multiple balances, even if sometimes they remain fragile. Our military tool, in this context, is of major importance. I've already ordered a strategic defence and security review. With the guiding sons of the principles of independence and autonomy of decision-making, our armies will carry out the tasks I have entrusted to them: deterrence, the cornerstone of our security; the protection of our citizens and our interests; intervention where respect for law and international stability are threatened. Crisis prevention and resolution will be managed in a comprehensive manner, never forgetting that only stabilization and development can create the conditions for lasting peace. Our armed forces are the conditions for this capacity for dialogue, for this French credibility and for this ability, everywhere, to build peace. This independence, which I call for, does not mean solitude. France will be faithful to all its alliances. For our armies, the next few years will be those of strategic and tactical renewal. I know that they are ready because they are at the forefront of the world as it goes, with this vigilance and commitment that honour our country. As you can see, the threats have never been so great, and the multilateral order is probably more fragile than it has ever been, divided, shaken, when it is more necessary than ever. In the coming years, France's role will be to defend security, equality in the face of excesses, freedoms, the planet in the face of global warming, everything that constitutes our universal common good and that today, in too many places, is being called into question. Touch your finger at the new moment we're living in. We have built ourselves, since the eighteenth century, on a balance that we thought of from all eternity, between democracies based on liberal values, on our freedoms, a market economy that allowed the progress of the middle classes. All this is now deeply shaken, transformed, threatened. Authoritarian regimes succeed in the market economy, while democracies, which we believed yesterday to be always allies, threaten the international order, begin to doubt their own rules. Our vocation, our role today, is precisely, even more so than yesterday, to remind them, to carry them, to make them, to hold them. It will be that, my course, our course, and no other. This course of the world comes in a way to test our resistance and our coherence. This is, for example, what we are experiencing with the major migration crises that are now going through Africa, the Mediterranean, and again Europe. In the coming months, we will have difficult decisions to make. We need to prevent these crises better, through an ambitious security and development policy in all areas of fragility and conflict – we need to re-explain and act, in all regions that war, but also global warming destabilize – but we also need to stem these major migrations better by a policy of controlling and combating human trafficking. This requires, in a coordinated way in Europe, effective and humane action that allows us to welcome political refugees at real risk – because these are our values – without confusing them with economic migrants and without abandoning the indispensable control of our borders. In order to succeed in keeping this course, we need a stronger and more well-founded Europe. More than ever we need Europe; And here, too, more than ever, no doubt, it is weakened by divisions and by the doubt that has settled in our people. Yet Europe is at home as much as we are in Europe, because it is impossible to think of our continental destiny other than through the European project. Europe is us; It is a project of peace, freedom, progress, which has been thought and implemented with courage by generations that have preceded us and lived the war. And today we would like to forget all this, to consider that, in the face of divisions, in the face of Brexit and so many sombresauts of history, the answer would lie in an even greater decrease, in a form of abandonment, in a stuttering of history. To ignore Europe, to get used to the concierge, to make it the culprit of all our evils, is to betray those generations that have preceded us, is to betray what means that today, where we are, we can freely debate Europe, to love it or not. But neglecting Europe, becoming accustomed to making it a subject of technical negotiations, is also, in a way, abdication of our history and abdication of France. The construction of Europe is also today – it must be noted – weakened by bureaucratic proliferation, by the growing scepticism that ensues from it. I firmly believe in Europe, but I do not always find this unwarranted scepticism. That is why I propose you to take up the height, to get out of the tyranny of calendars and calendars, of the meandering of the technique. The decade that has just ended has been a cruel decade for Europe. We've managed crises, but we've lost course. That is why it is up to a new generation of leaders to take up the European idea at its origin, which is political in its essence: a voluntary, realistic and ambitious association of states determined to promote useful policies on the movement of people – particularly with regard to youth – and goods, in terms of security, monetary and fiscal matters, but also in terms of political and cultural matters. The countries of Europe, for which it is not confined to the market but draws a space in which a certain idea of the value of man, of the demand for social justice, is recognised as a preeminent one, must take over a decisive project and be organized accordingly, even if it is at the cost of an examination without complacency of our present functioning. We have a daily task to carry out, humbly – I started with the people's mandate: to have a Europe that protects more, to carry out the necessary reforms, to carry out the European ambition in many areas that make our daily lives. But that will not be enough. It is up to France to take the initiative. I wish to do so in the coming months, thanks to the close work I have already done, particularly with the Chancellor of Germany. By the end of the year, on these bases, throughout Europe, we will launch democratic conventions to reshape Europe, precisely on this first political project, on this first ambition, which unites people. Then everyone is free to subscribe to it or not. But the time is no longer at work. We must take Europe back at its beginning, if I can say at its very origin, and thereby revive Europe's desire, by not leaving the monopoly of the people and ideas to the demagogues or extremists, by not making Europe either a crisis management trustee, who seeks every day to lengthen its rules of procedure because the neighbours no longer trust each other. We must regain the first breath of European commitment, that certainty where were the visionaries of past centuries and the founding fathers of Europe that the most beautiful part of our stories, of our cultures would be expressed not in rivalry, let alone in war, but in the union of forces; not in the hegemony of one or the other, but in a respectful balance that will make us all succeed. It is from this union that our time needs, because it is only it that will meet the challenges of modernity, because it is in this Europe that we share a common vision of the world and of man, a vision soaked in the same sources, forged by the same trials of history. [[Vif applause]] These challenges are the ecological transition, which reshapes the relationship between man and nature; the digital transition, which rewrites social rules and obliges us to reinvent this continental law in which, for so many centuries, we have wanted the norm to respect man; Finally, it is the challenge of contemporary humanism, faced with the dangers of fanaticism, terrorism and war, to which we will respond through a more European defence under construction, but also by a Europe of culture and innovation. Peace is not only Europe's foundation, it is ideal, always to promote, and only Europe, and France in Europe today, can achieve it. So yes, we will break with the facilities that we had given ourselves in previous years, to be up to what the moment requires of us. Fernand Braudel said: "Europe will not be if it does not rely on these old forces which have made it, which still work deeply, with a word if we neglect all its living humanisms. Let us not neglect them any more. Ladies and gentlemen, we now know the enthusiasm of the beginnings, but the seriousness of the circumstances prevents us from feeling any drunkenness. Terrorism has not disarmed. Our financial balances are deteriorating, our debt is considerable. Productive investment is still too low, unemployment is still unbearable. The hardness of life is there, for so many of our fellow citizens. But the French people have made known their wills, and we will be servants. There will be unexpected, opposition, difficult times, but we will not let all these hazards discourage us for a moment. In the face of every difficulty, instead of giving up, we will return to the essentials and draw even greater energy from it. I'm ready for it. I'm sure you are, too. Because through our commitment, French and French people regain their pride. Indeed, no one here has any interest in France failing or not moving forward fast enough. The French people are not just asking for efficiency. Effectiveness is an instrument, and one can be quite effective in the service of a bad cause. No: he asks us what the philosopher Simone Weil called "effectiveness", i.e. the concrete, tangible, visible application of the principles that guide us, the refusal to be taken in default and to proclaim principles whose application we do not relentlessly pursue. The principle of effectiveness is for you, for me, for the Government, to never cease to wonder whether we are in practice faithful to our principles, that is, first of all to freedom, equality, fraternity. [[Mrs. and Mr. Congressmen and members of the Government rise and applaud at length]] What we have to achieve is a real revolution. We are here, you and I, to reconnect with this French courage that is not distracted by those who, having not been able to go anywhere, have somehow returned from everything. We must, at every moment, live up to this French hope by the commitment of all. For, do not be mistaken, the opposing forces continue to be powerful, not so much in Parliament, where legitimate oppositions are expressed, not so much in the streets, but simply in the heads. In each one of us, there's a cynical sleeping. And it is in each of us that we must silence him, day after day, reminding him of our duty, reminding him constantly of the moment that is passing through our country. And it will be seen. Then we will be believed. Then we will do the service that the French people expect of us, with humility. Then we will remain faithful to this promise of our beginnings, that promise that we will keep because it is the greatest, the most beautiful one: to make man, at last, a country worthy of him. Long live the Republic, live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u5	I shall suspend the meeting for a few moments to accompany the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u6	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u7	The next item is the debate on the statement by the President of the Republic. I would remind you that each group has a ten-minute speaking time for the speaker it has appointed and that five minutes have been allocated to a member of Congress who is not a member of any group. The next speaker is Mr Richard Ferrand, for the La République group on the move of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u8	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it was on November 16, 2015 that I was attending a meeting of Congress for the first time. History commanded the nation's representatives to come together. In memory of this day, I want to pay tribute to the memory of all the victims of terrorism and express our solidarity in sorrow to all families who have lost one of their own. Ladies and gentlemen, Emmanuel Macron announced early in his campaign that he would speak every year before the Parliament. I welcome this new practice, which will enable the President of the Republic to share his vision and report to national representation. The cardinal points raised today by the President of the Republic will be those of our compass for the work of the 15th legislature of the National Assembly. In the face of challenges, the time is no longer at the status quo or immobilism, but at action. Our objectives are clear, including the necessary institutional developments. They consist of giving effect, with the Government, to the contract entered into between the President of the Republic and our fellow citizens for the realization of the works essential for the future of our country. This contract commits the whole majority from the ballot box, to put France back on track, to allow the French and French to become masters of their destiny again and the nation to regain the creative movement of a great history. Today is the first step. We have an absolute obligation to succeed. The French and French no longer want only intentions and even less dogmas; They want solutions, actions and results. [[Applause on many benches]] First of all, it is a question of freeing our country from the carcans and blockages that hinder activity and penalise cohesion, in order to return to prosperity, progress, movement, inventiveness, and create more justice and equality. It is our collective responsibility to describe unnecessary tensions, to allow a new breath and momentum, to give young people priority to new hopes. Some rules, which have become obsolete – as we all know – need to be modernised, lightened or even abolished. This requires more effective, faster and more targeted public action. It will be up to Parliament to ensure this, in particular by focusing more on the evaluation and monitoring of public policies. We must also build a France and a Europe that protects our citizens from the real dangers they face in the 21st century, not from past, fantasized or falsely exacerbated dangers. Each and every one of us in our country has to find the keys to accomplish tomorrow. We will therefore have to create new, more appropriate, bolder, more agile protections, first to ensure our security, especially in the face of the terrorist threat, but also to protect everyone from the hazards of life, in a constantly changing world, by improving and better calibration our training, by transforming our health system and housing policy, by reforming unemployment insurance, so that it becomes a universal right for everyone, and by investing massively in the ecological and energy transition for a new model of growth. We will only achieve this by reviving an ambitious, forward-looking Europe that invests and traces shared perspectives. But that's not all. We also need to reconcile. Let us reconcile the territories by guaranteeing republican equality without ever imposing a single model, by reinvesting in France that feels left behind, by encouraging the new economic circuits in rural and agricultural France, by amplifying an ambitious policy of urban renewal to combat poverty and social handicap, by developing transport networks to unblock, connect and bring the territories closer! Let us also reconcile the French with the future, progress, the hope of a better life for the next generations, with their political representatives, but also with each other! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is a matter of priority for education and culture, which form the basis and condition of our national cohesion. The transmission of fundamental knowledge, our culture and our republican values, first and foremost secularism, must be put at the heart of the project of our school and our universities. A major project, at the heart of the intervention of the President of the Republic, is that of democratic renewal. We must restore confidence in public life. We must also rebuild a political project for Europe, a lever of our influence and power. Freeing, protecting, reconciling: these are the cardinal points of our upcoming parliamentary work. The French and French have trusted us by electing a majority in the National Assembly to keep this course and bring the expected answers. President of the La République group on the move of the National Assembly, I appreciate the demand for this mission and the collective responsibility that is now ours. Our group presents a visible renewal of faces. It is up to us, all of us, to renew practices and practices together. It is up to us to demonstrate that politics is not a matter of posture but a commitment to the service of the nation, rooted in the daily lives of French and French people and faithful to the promises made. The challenge is obviously not to change people to keep practices. On the contrary, parliamentary work must be renovated in order to be in line with the expectations of our people. The leads opened by the President of the Republic are those we will have to explore. Already, our Members will be fully invested, both in the Assembly and among the people in their constituency, determined – as I know, they have said – to carry out more demanding and thorough parliamentary work. [[Applause on many benches]] We are committed to a demand for co-construction, by showing openness to others, a benevolent demand towards the Government and pragmatic in all our decisions. Whenever an idea seems to benefit France, we will gladly support it, without controlling its designation of origin. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us evaluate, correct, improve, simplify and choose to legislate only on the essentials! Otherwise, we will become manufacturers of standards, of which we know, on the ground, that their multiplication hinders action and inventiveness. To change reality, you have to start by looking at it face-to-face, even when it strikes. With regard to our country and our fellow citizens, we have a duty to strive towards the ideal, in order to restore the energy of collective hope and to emerge from this form of morose delight that has paralysed our country in recent years. [[Many Congressmen rise and applaud]] Let us be sure, it is the forces of freedom and the bonds of a fraternal society that will free us from these "forces of alienation" mentioned by the President of the Republic. Together, we must develop an ethic of method and results to ensure that our collective effectiveness is recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take stock of history and walk, let us walk so that hope can water our furrows!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u9	Bruno Retailleau, for the Republicans of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u10	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate – dear Gérard Larcher – Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament or Senators, the President of the Republic has wished to convene this meeting of the Congress here in Versailles. The meeting of our two assemblies is an important moment because it is rare. It obliges us to a certain level, as the President of the Republic said a few moments ago. We must first live up to this place full of history, of a long history that is rooted in a culture, our culture, this French culture, that the world envys us so much, but also of a recent, tragically recent history. Some of us were already here when Congress met a few days after the Bataclan massacre. In my turn, I would like to have an emotional thought for all the victims of Islamist barbarism, for those who still carry deep wounds in their flesh and spirit. This must encourage us to take even more determined action. So right now, we have to find the right height. This moment is paradoxical because the hope created by the presidential election among some of our compatriots contrasts with a silence, ladies and gentlemen: the silence of those who have not voted, who no longer want to participate. Very often, the great pains are silent: it is first the pain of economic downgrading, of mass unemployment, and of the blocked social elevator; It is also the pain of cultural dispossession, buried under so many unsaid, after so many setbacks that we are paying the high price today, through communalist pushes to which identity retreats respond. So, yes, this moment compels us, and it compels us all. We must ensure that our forthcoming parliamentary discussions are not just an expression of one another, but the resumption of the construction of one between us, in order to finally revive the thread of the civic conversation with a silent France waiting for us to speak to it and above all, beyond words, for us to act in practice. It is now necessary to move on to practical exercise. This silent France waits for the challenge of crises and fractures that tear the national fabric. It will take much more than half-reforms, perhaps institutional reform: first of all courage. But courage does not lie in any institution; Over the course of history, it has always been carried by women and men. More than reforms, perhaps even more than transformations, it will take a Revolution, to take over a now famous title. The revolution must first be economic, in order to combat mass unemployment. Of course, it is necessary to blow up the locks and lower the cost of work to take account of the situation in our European partners – both go hand in hand. The weight of the public sphere must be rebalanced with that of the private sphere. The state's addiction to public spending leads us into the wall. Next year, Prime Minister, the debt will probably reach 100% of the annual wealth produced by the French. It's a bomb that threatens to implode our social model. You will have to explain to us tomorrow how you intend to reduce public spending. The revolution must also be territorial. We cannot consider, ladies and gentlemen, wherever you come from, that the future of France lies only in the major globalized metropolises. There is, dear Gérard Larcher, this France next door, this peripheral France that we defend in our constituencies and our departments. Perhaps we need a territorial conference, yes, but you will have to explain to us your vision of this beautiful idea of spatial planning. We will have to choose between the amputation of communal freedom and the momentum of a new act of decentralization, because France is first of all territories – Mona Ozouf spoke of "French composition". [[Murmures]] Another civic revolution must take place. Islamist terrorists have designated us – we have not – as their enemy. We must oppose them with the most complete determination, here and there. This determination requires of course a military, police and judicial arsenal, but also a civic response, through, on the one hand, this crucible which the school must become again – a crucible of transmission, of course – and, on the other hand, the reconstruction of the authority of the State. The law of the Republic must apply throughout the territory. No parcel of this territory should be abandoned, not even the ZAD of Notre-Dame-des-Landes, Prime Minister! If I may, this civic response must also be accompanied by a struggle against the communalisms, which tear our social fabric apart. Let me tell you, we are proud of the DNA of the French Republic, which we all share: universalism. But universalism vanishes itself when it no longer believes in the universal, when it thinks that its own universal values could only suit certain territories. Of course, we share all these values. Prime Minister, in the coming weeks we will see each other. Be sure that, if you choose this steep path, this difficult path of French recovery, we will be available to support and improve your proposals. But we will also be a vigilant opposition. Do not ask us to abdicate our freedom and our convictions. Refuse this hegemonic temptation that would not be good for your government or for your majority. Together, we can work. Remember that the only law that counts, the great law of the city, the great law of the Republic is the one that is forged by debate and dissent, not by one thought. That is what underpins the very idea of democracy and that is what we will do. Our course of action will be inspired only by the general interest and interest of the French, as well as by the high idea that we make of France, a country that we all love, regardless of our personal stories and partisan trajectories. The philosopher Simone Weil, quoted by the President of the Republic a few moments ago, said: "Give the French something to love. And give them first to love France. » [[Applause on many benches]] Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, honourable Members of Parliament and senators, it is by deeply recognizing this democratic principle and taking into account our sometimes divergent positions that you will allow the voice of France and the voice of all the French to speak at the heart of our assemblies. That is what we all wish today on this solemn day. Long live the French Republic and live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u11	Mrs. Virginie Duby-Muller, for the Republican Group of the National Assembly, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u12	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we completed an electoral campaign which, as it is necessary in democracy, led to the confrontation of opinions and projects. Our nation has chosen: Emmanuel Macron is now our head of state and we unanimously wish his success to the Elysée because his success will be closely linked to that of France. The President of the Republic succeeded illustrious predecessors, first of all General de Gaulle. This responsibility binds him. It has become the guarantor of the proper functioning of the institutions of the Fifth Republic. It now embodies the French Republic and its history. The President of the Republic is also the guarantor of respect for the rights of the opposition: this is one of the foundations of our democratic pact; This is the guarantee of the vitality of our Parliament. It must take care to preserve the opposition and the counter-powers, by resisting any hegemonic temptation, which by nature would be dangerous and deadly for our Republic. We recognize the legitimacy that the majority has gained in the ballot box. But no political calculation should lead her to compromise the fundamental rights of the opposition, whether from her left or her right. I am one of the Members who were not given the winners on the evening of the first round. Yet I fought, and I'm here in front of you. Politics is often a battle of ideas, as you all know, in this House. But it is also a space for discussions, proposals and construction. Everyone must be able to give his or her opinion and everyone's opinion must be able to be heard. This is the nobility of politics. Last Wednesday, at the very heart of our House, the rights of the opposition have been severely undermined, because of a maneuver by a few Members who have failed to respect the functioning and practices of the National Assembly. The President has just denounced the world of small arrangements. We're coming, alas! to suffer a sad resurgence of this old world. Let's not face it: none of the Quaestors elected to the National Assembly represents an opposition group. All were elected with the direct or indirect support of the La République en marche group. All of them publicly announced that they would vote for confidence in the Government, without even waiting to hear the Prime Minister's general policy speech. In short, the control of the budget and the functioning of the National Assembly becomes the monopoly of deputies in favour of the majority. Opposition groups therefore find themselves poorly represented in the new assembly. Prime Minister, the majority must not choose its opposition. The President of the Republic wanted to modernize political life by putting an end to old political practices. How, then, can we condone such acts? For those who do not respect differences of opinion disfigure what the French have taken so many years to build. Those who take advantage of the compressor roller to crush differences reduce parliamentary practice. Those who refuse to hear the contradictory speech dishonor their mandate. I would also like to quote Paul Ricœur, particularly dear to Emmanuel Macron: "We do not excel in anything without taking into account others. » A peaceful democracy is not a democracy in which everyone agrees, but a democracy in which everyone listens and respects each other. We expect from you a firm will to build together the France of tomorrow, listening to the representatives of the nation. Prime Minister, a reform of our institutions has just been announced to us. Some of the proposals go in the right direction and are deeply needed. For between the organization of our institutions and the life of the nation, there is a close and fundamental link. We share a common responsibility: to bring the voice of our fellow citizens, to calm the democratic debate and to work together in the service of the general interest. The Republicans of the National Assembly will follow you in particular in your desire to reduce the legislative proliferation, which serves our work. We fear, however, that the institutional reform, which you call your wishes, will encounter two major pitfalls: firstly, it may put rural areas at a disadvantage, which would become the great forgotten of national representation; Secondly, it may weaken parliamentarians, and thus the legislative power. Indeed, with a proportional dose in the ballots, representativeness will be mechanically hindered. The proportional is the triumph of the parties and the Jacobin centralism. It would no longer allow residents to have a direct connection with their MP. Parliamentarians would be less present, therefore less known, and thus less identifiable. That would be a major democratic setback. It would also become very difficult to sanction his deputy in the ballot box because the leaders would always be re-elected. So we refuse to create an off-ground assembly, where disconnected apparatchiks from the territories would take power. [[Applause on many benches]] We should also be wary of the method of reducing the number of parliamentarians, if it were to penalise rural territories, because the removal of some of the elected representatives amounts to an increase in the size of the constituencies, and therefore leads to the risk of being removed from the Member. This would be especially the case in the underpopulated territories, and it would sign the end of this relationship of trust and proximity with our people, whom we all know. We cannot leave a part of the French on the edge of the road. Finally, let us beware of the demagogic temptation to limit the number of mandates over time. As a young elected candidate, I understand and support the renewal of political practices, but everything that helps to censor voters in their choice is undemocratic. The essence of democracy is to give every citizen as much freedom as possible to choose his or her representative. I also fully trust our voters not to re-elect one of their representatives who would have been disappointing. To the test of parliamentary practice, the mermaids of renewal thus have their limits. The House must be representative, with experienced elected officials who pass on their skills to new arrivals. No elected official can be reduced to an automatic role in a recording chamber. We have strong proposals and ask to be heard. For the nation to have meaning, it must be embodied, represented in all its diversity. Prime Minister, abstention was the great winner of the last elections: nearly one in two citizens did not go to vote last June. We must draw all the consequences of this refusal. Many are to be rebuilt and we must act quickly; Our country has suffered too much immobilism. In this unabated race where progress is leading the great nations, the courage of the reforms has been sorely lacking in recent years. The number of unemployed has steadily increased and 2 million young people are without training and excluded from employment. Our middle classes have suffered massive tax increases. Our companies are driven by constraints. The budget voted by the Socialist majority for 2017 was considered insinuated by the Court of Auditors. Insecurity has increased in our territory and several terrorist attacks have bereaved our country. This year, 100,000 young people left school without a diploma. Our social system is in crisis and we do not properly understand the ageing of the population. Our local and regional authorities are suffocated and our rural life is in great pain. How can we promise our fellow citizens tomorrows who sing without undertaking the necessary reforms that the French have long been waiting for? With The Republicans, we will be at the rendezvous for far-reaching reforms, which we have been calling for for five years. We will be at the meeting, as we have always been, to fight terrorism forcefully and to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. We will also be at the meeting for a major economic reform that will free up our businesses in order to combat unemployment effectively. We will mobilize to restore French meritocracy and excellence by improving our education system. We will be present to combat the territorial divide, in particular to guarantee equal care in France. We will be there to rebuild our political practices because the trust of the nation is our most precious democratic value. We will also be at the meeting to develop digital technology, a new guarantee of transparency in order to include our citizens more fully in public life. We are also mobilized for the success of the Paris Agreement, which guarantees the future of our planet. Finally, we will be at the meeting to give the European Union a new impetus. Thus, the adjective "constructive", very fashionable, is not the prerogative of some Members. It concerns us all constantly. Having been elected as representatives of the nation, how could we not be constructive? So yes, we will be at the rendezvous of the reform of the State, to give our Republic its strength of action. However, we refuse, as we have told you, to give you a white-seing. We will be able to mobilize, in our respective assemblies, to denounce and combat penalizing reforms for the French, such as the massive and unjust rise of the CSG. In the current situation, nothing would be worse than failing because of a lack of ambition, audacity and, ultimately, responsibility; faithful to the Gaullist spirit, we will refuse to do so. Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the republican model remains our foundation, our common reference. The Republic is social promotion based on merit and talent; She makes each of us the companion of the other. With The Republicans, we have been making a major democratic choice for years: that of responsibility. [[Applause on many benches]] I wish to conclude by paying tribute to Simone Veil, this great European from our political family, who has worked so hard for women's rights. May his word, taken from A Life, his autobiography, continue to inhabit us: "From all continents, believers and non-believers, we all belong to the same planet, to the community of men. We must be vigilant and defend it not only against the forces of nature that threaten it, but even more against the folly of men. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u13	Mr Didier Guillaume, for the Socialist and Republican Group of the Senate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u14	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, honourable Members of Parliament and senators, in democracy, the people are always right, some organizations have died for forgetting it. So let us take a few moments to reflect and ask what he wanted to express in the last elections: perhaps, more than anything, his weariness, his exasperation even, of the political game as it has been practiced for years, routine, caricatural, a game of reflexes rather than reflection. This exasperation has been expressed forcefully, to the point of upsetting the political landscape, its parties and its parliamentary groups. It is now our responsibility as parliamentarians of the French Republic to respond to this exasperation, otherwise the time of anger will soon come. A requirement of success is thus required of us. Those who think we can restore the old world have not grasped the magnitude of this election, but those who think we are in the Year I of politics forget our rich history, our predecessors and the great hours of our Republic. We must certainly invent, create and exceed, but above all live up to this story, the expectations of our fellow citizens and of France. The President of the Republic drew up the road map. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, Prime Minister, in the National Assembly and then in the Senate, you will implement it and present the government program. Since we will have the opportunity to discuss it with you, I shall now refer exclusively to the road map just presented by the President of the Republic. He announced that there would be, once a year, a great democratic rendezvous. Shit! By their absence, some have at the outset renounced the work of invention and creativity. They took refuge in the comfort of postures that they master perfectly. For my part, on behalf of the group I represent, I see in this Congress and in the presence of the President of the Republic as a sign of respect and an opportunity to engage in a useful debate in the country. [[Applause on several benches]] Prime Minister, however, we propose that every year, on the occasion of his message to Parliament, the President of the Republic can respond to parliamentarians. We succeed in the rostrum when he is gone and we address you, while he cannot hear what we have to say. We will therefore present, Madam Keeper of the Seals, a proposal for a constitutional law – to which I have no doubt that the majority and the opposition will be in favour – so that, as soon as next year, in a debate, the President of the Republic can hear what the presidents of parliamentary groups will have to say. France is the only country in the world where the President of the Republic cannot debate with parliamentarians. Yes, as the President of the Republic has said, our institutions need to be strengthened. Their misdemeanour is the counterpart of a citizen distrust that grows year after year. But be careful: we don't play lottery or cup with our institutions. They deserve to be strengthened and advanced, but we need to be lucid: the crisis is deep. Populism is still there and is not only embodied in the far-right project: it is an atmosphere, a mood that spreads throughout France, in cities as well as in rural areas. The damaged democratic link between our citizens and the political class can be restored if we can follow your proposal for major democratic and institutional changes. The Government seems to me to be aware of this and, Prime Minister, you will be introducing such bills in the coming months. We will have an opportunity to discuss it day and night, and I would like to contribute to this debate in a resolutely constructive way. Our institutions are indeed strong. The Fifth Republic has held and still stands today. Let those who wish to overcome it in order to establish a VIe reflect well on what we have experienced and on the strength of this Constitution. Through our actions and decisions, we must meet five challenges: the stability of the regime, the effectiveness of decision-making, the better representation of the French people, the participation of citizens and the clarity and transparency of public action. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Same movements]] However, I would like to go back to a word that was spoken earlier. Attention, danger: populism and anti-parlementarism cannot be built into the democratic life of our country. It can even happen to us sometimes to subscribe to it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now seal the Versailles Pact: because we are French parliamentarians, parliamentarians of the Republic, we will constantly ban populism, which goes far too far. In fact, when it is we who engage in this sense, it is certain that the people will be right; Let us take care of this, because it could set us in a difficult future. I will conclude by responding to the plans to improve our institutions announced by the President of the Republic. [[Smile]] We are told a consistent dose of proportional. It is not a simple dose to be introduced, Prime Minister – that would not change anything – but a large dose! For the speaker who preceded me in the gallery, nothing is right and we must change everything, but in the end nothing must change. Well, no! There is a need to change things and proportionality can contribute to them, thanks to better representation of political currents. Similarly, if we have to reduce the number of parliamentarians, it is not because the French want it – if we push the reasoning, they will say that it takes two, three or four times fewer Members and that there will always be too many. The limitation of the cumulation of mandates, undertaken by President Hollande and the previous majority, which you will extend, will show us that we need fewer parliamentarians to do the same work, and we will be in favour of it. In this regard, I would like to reiterate to the Speaker of the Senate that we want bicameralism to remain the foundation of our institutions. A renewed and moving bicameralism, on which President Larcher has already made many proposals, is a guarantee of the stability of our institutions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I shall mention the serious crisis in our country. All of us here, in our various functions and qualities, have a share of responsibility, but we must above all have the will to do something about it, not just comment. It is our role as parliamentarians, let us assume it! To restore its place to French intelligence, yes, but also to make the Republic live every day, wherever we lived. To restore its place to French intelligence is to fulfil our European commitment, we must be proud of it. The Republican promise is first and foremost a democratic promise. Our fellow citizens want to control their lives, their destiny better. Their living together in the Republic is essential. On all territories, in the corons of the mining basin, in the Camargue as in the Basque Country, this France is diverse, but one and indivisible. I therefore ardently wish – we need it – that this quinquennium be that of the reaffirmation of the Republic and its values. Our country has experienced terrible tragedies, traumas. He is at war with Islamist terrorism. The legitimate electoral euphoria of recent weeks must not erase any of this. The fractures of society are still there. Let us not forget that on 16 November 2015, here in this Chamber, more than 900 parliamentarians, standing, observed a minute of silence, then sang La Marseillaise, united in republican values against terrorism. Let us not forget the poison of the Republic that is communityism. Let us continue to affirm fully our republican values, first and foremost, secularism, the only one capable of responding to the challenges before us. [[Applause on many benches]] Let us work on all this to reform France and promote the Republic. Prime Minister, the President of the Republic has drawn up his road map. We will discuss this without reservation, in the interests of France and the French, because it is Parliament's honour to be able to build the future of our country. Let us live up to the needs of our fellow citizens, for the Republic and for France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u15	Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement of the National Assembly, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u16	Mr President of the Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is a solemn day when the President of the Republic, having convened the Congress in Versailles, addresses all parliamentarians and, through them, the French people. The gravity of the place and of the moment must prompt us to take the measure of what brings us together. The President of the Republic has chosen to speak to all the men and women whom the French, through the exercise of their right as citizens, have wanted to invest powers which are those of the entire nation, with the sole aim of meeting the challenges facing our country. He wished to present to Parliament the outline of his action, to define its meaning and to set the course for it. So the solemnity of the moment imposes a duty of responsibility on all members and senators. Responsibility for our role now vis-à-vis the French, who expect their representatives and their leaders to respond decisively and effectively to the problems of our time. We know how many of them are and how heavy they are, as the situation has continued to deteriorate in recent decades, fuelling the anger of a large part of our people, weary of waiting for results. Above all, responsibility for the collective accountability of our actions at the end of our mandate. Let us not doubt that the French will be able to remind us of our duties and our commitments. They will also be implacable with us, if we fail, that they will have been enthusiastic about wishing for a profound change for the country. The campaigns that end have left a bitter taste for all those who cherish political action. The presidential campaign, first of all, saw access to the second round, for the second time, to a candidate from the extremes. In the legislative campaign, then, the citizens largely turned away from this yet crucial election. Let us simply say that the reconquest of the hearts and attention of the French will only be achieved through the achievement of clear and lasting results guaranteeing the future of our country, and by the restoration of confidence between the representatives of the people we are and the citizens. This historic responsibility, the MODEM Group, which has long been invested in the subject, intends to assume it fully within the majority that you are leading, Prime Minister, and alongside the President of the Republic. The majority we form wants to be at the service of the French. We fully recognize ourselves in the course proposed by the Head of State since the beginning of his term of office and today expressed before Congress. I say it and I assume it on behalf of my group: our responsibility as parliamentarians is to allow the Government to implement as soon as possible the proposals of candidate Emmanuel Macron, whom the French placed at the head of the first round of the presidential election, before electing him. Our will is therefore simply to act and act quickly so that the French, after having chosen twice, in conscience and in complete freedom, the reforms proposed by the majority, can see the changes they have been waiting for so long. The line on which we are committed is a peak line because, no doubt, in our recent history, there has never been so much mistrust of the political world. We are all the voice carriers of the French people. We must remember that, if we all have a land of election, we individually assume a share of the sovereignty of an entire people, of their hopes, whether we are of the majority or of the opposition. For a long time, we have identified this evil that gnaws our democracy, gradually detaching the citizens of their elected representatives. The determined efforts of the Democratic Movement's elected representatives to bring citizens closer to their institutions are evidence of our commitment to make our democracy more representative and more open. The law re-establishing confidence in public action thus goes in the direction of strengthening our institutions, improving the efficiency of our operations and better responding to the demands of time. The non-cumulation of mandates, including for the duration of the term, the imperative of exemplarity of the elected representatives, the reinforced supervision of our activities: all this must help to restore confidence in our fellow citizens. This is the very condition of legitimacy of speech and political action, without which no lasting reform will be possible. Abstention, which is ever stronger in each election, makes it all the more necessary for such a reform, and the other institutional reforms announced today by the President of the Republic, the guarantor of our institutions, will contribute to it. Thus, the question of fair representation of all political forces in our assemblies, of proportional representation in order to guarantee to the French their fairest and fairest representation, is raised. This is a central issue for our democratic life and breathing. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our people do not find themselves and never meet better than around ideals, than around a great purpose, a vision. The French know the depth of time and history; They know the scope of our universal message, which has always made him a people concerned about others. When its representatives do not live up to this story, it is the whole of France that loses itself and its message weakens. When, on the contrary, they are, and in the first place the head of the State, unity and radiation become possible again. The President of the Republic is fully and fully in keeping with this desire to restore our country to what it has so specific in its functioning and, at the same time, so universal. In just two months, the reaffirmation of France's traditional positions is perceptible. Whether it is recently, in the G7, on global economic issues, or on the crucial stakes of the climate, or on security, France's voice has become more audible. In Europe too, we are pleased to see France reconnect with the European ideal and original project, including the unwavering link we have with Germany. The President of the Republic has been able to establish this new dialogue with the French, France and our international partners. Everything remains to be done, of course, but we feel it all over our territories, more than ever, France seems ready to move, to change, to try. She is now waiting for us to meet the hope that rose in the spring. It waits for us, through our actions, our capacity for dialogue and our listening, to reform. She waits and perhaps hopes above all to regain confidence in those who govern her and in herself. This momentum, ladies and gentlemen, we must support it boldly, with lucidity, with demand, with all the strength of the profound renewal that has taken place in recent months and with the will that many of us, on these benches, incarnate. Prime Minister, it is not a matter of paying for words to consider your action as a carrier of a new ambition for France. The voice of France is expected and listened to, and we are pleased that it is that of tolerance, dialogue, openness, the ideal of freedom, and those European and humanistic values that we love. Your action can be based on the parliamentarians of the presidential majority and the group on whose behalf I speak. [[Applause on many benches]] "The spirit of conquest", in the words of the President of the Republic, speaks to the imagination of our country and bases our common destiny. It is such a breath that our country needs. The election of Emmanuel Macron, the constitution of a clear majority around you, Prime Minister, gives rise to hopes and expectations. It is now up to us to be at the appointed meeting with the French people, whose President of the Republic came to speak this afternoon before the Congress: the real confrontation to better serve our ideal; modernised, readable institutions for debate and democratic life; Finally, a proud and self-confident country that speaks to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u17	Mr Vincent Capo-Canellas, for the Group of the Union of Democrats and Independents-Centralist Union of the Senate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u18	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly a special moment that brings us together, if we consider the timetable; But the major subject is not here. "In the end, throughout my life, I have had the chance to be able to open gaps in the ambient conformism": these few words of Simone Veil resonate in particular. Simone Veil the European, a supporter of Franco-German rapprochement; Simone Veil, the reformer, who has been able to establish links between often artificially opposed political edges; Simone Veil, who translated the aspiration of French society to evolve with his time, even if he exceeded the ambient conformism. Together, I believe we have the same aspiration to open the debate on the country's future calmly. Yes, from Simone Veil, I will first retain the ardent obligation to overcome conformisms, among which the artificial cut between the French in two camps that confront and sterilize the debate. The centre has always carried this message. The necessity, in the face of a political system that is breathless, leads us to revisit this old cleavage. The urgent need to reform the country invites us to do so. The state of our public finances obliges us to do so. And we must first face terrorism, together ensure the safety of our compatriots, eradicate terrorists, respond to this challenge to our way of life, to our values, to our conception of freedom; In the face of terrorists, of course, we must be united. We must also face the territorial challenge, avoid the establishment of relegation territories or at least perceived as such. Every one of us measures that there is despair in both rural and suburban areas. The French, at the end of a campaign that was certainly unprecedented, put us before this evidence: as Valéry Giscard d'Estaing said, in order to reform, we must gather "two out of three French". We are, unequivocally, at a key moment. After so many procrastinations, this quinquennium must succeed; It must finally be a useful quinquennium. We must take this decisive step together, as our European neighbours have been able to do: to build a basis for reform; Then we'll see if the old cleavages come back. The current urgency reminds us of the one used by Pierre Mendès France in his time: that of governing, so to choose. The financial reality illustrates the truth of Raymond Barre's analysis of the evolution of public spending. The need for social engineering also invites us to resume the analyses of Michel Rocard. Above all, there is a need to restore the greatness of France, which must lead us to always keep in our heads the message of General de Gaulle's gathering. Prime Minister, you are in an unprecedented, innovative configuration, and the Senate Centralist Union is pleased that you are here. Our former colleague Jacqueline Gourault belongs to your government. The group that has been bringing together IDU and MODEM senators in the Senate for years will largely support the Government's reform efforts. We will probably have to find, in the Senate, in the coming weeks and even beyond, majorities of ideas. Of course, we will have subjects of debate: the place of local authorities, their financial autonomy, particularly with regard to the proposed exemption from the housing tax. On societal issues, your vision will also raise questions. Above all, we will be demanding: demanding on the control of public spending and debt reduction; demanding on the defence of parliamentarism and local democracy, which must not be called into question as a facility offered to the public, even though we must improve the effectiveness of our work; demanding on the conditions of our political debates, fully open to Parliament; We must not forget the need for a new system of social democracy and social dialogue, which must be renewed, but which must be the driving force behind the transformation of our economy and its competitiveness. We will, of course, have the power to make proposals on Europe. The challenge is first of all to find with our partners a capacity to promote the reforms of the euro area: further integration, common budget. Priority is also given to a Europe that protects. As such, awareness of the need for Europeans to defend themselves is a good thing. We want to enshrine France in a powerful Europe, protecting us from globalisation, strengthening our sovereignty and contributing to France's radiance in the world to the height of its message. With regard to international relations, addressed by the President of the Republic, we need more than ever to strengthen our historic alliances and forge strategic partnerships, not only for economic reasons but also because our internal security is being played out. In order to defeat the strategy of terror of the misguided religious extremists, in order to fight terrorism in the long term, the policy that we will pursue outside our borders, in the Middle East and in the Middle East, will also be decisive. We will also be vigilant about the climate. The commitments made at COP21 must be respected. France has a particular responsibility: following Jean-Louis Borloo, we believe that it must be fully exemplary and innovative, as ecological transformation is part of the solution to our difficulties. Beyond that, the modernization of our economy is necessary. The labour market is a prerequisite: it is a necessity for employment. We cannot remain among the few countries with such a high level of unemployment. We must draw the consequences of globalization, and we must be clear about technological change. You have to take care of it, not be subjected to it. There is, in our beautiful country, an aspiration to freedom in the economy, in life paths, and an expectation of new protection in the face of these changes. Success requires two prerequisites: the restoration of confidence in public action and the return to control over public finances. I will conclude on these two points. In institutional matters, the President of the Republic announced a number of proposals earlier: we will examine them with great interest. Since our group has always defended the introduction of a proportional dose into the representative system, we can only welcome the course set by the executive. Our group will participate as much as possible in identifying the necessary and eternal compromise between governance and representativeness. Similarly, we are in favour of reducing the number of parliamentarians, but again, the question of number must not be the tree that hides the forest. Finally, with regard to the control of our spending and the debt, the Court of Auditors' recognition that the 2017 finance bill submitted to the national representation was clearly tainted with insinuity sounds like a final reminder to order. The real risk is now that of financial markets: it is latent. We must set ourselves the objective of getting out of the European excessive deficit procedure. Parliament will take its full place in the country's recovery effort, a Parliament that appreciates the expectation of opinion and which, in the context of the separation of powers, will continue its renovation – the Senate, as far as it is concerned, has already largely committed it, around its President. We will be open to the proposals of the Government. [[Applause on many benches]] It is a question, for once, of making Raymond Aron lie, according to which "France makes from time to time a revolution but never reforms". Today, the real revolution is to succeed in reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u19	Mr Franck Riester, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents of the National Assembly, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u20	Mr President of the Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic has just recalled in this Chamber how much France is going through an unprecedented period in its history; We all share this lucid observation. The nation's public finances are in a state of concern, the figures are there: the debt is at the highest and the deficits are not reduced. While François Hollande had promised the French that the public deficit would be reduced to 3% of GDP by 2013, it will still be 3.2% in 2017, in disregard of France's European commitments. At the same time, our citizens feel more and more that our public services are deteriorating. The inhabitants of rural areas, in particular, feel abandoned, sacrificed on the altar of globalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u22	This territorial divide that divides the French is only one among so many. Let's face it, our public policies have failed for years: failure to produce visible results by the French, failure to improve their daily lives. We see it every day in the field, with our compatriots. Let us not be surprised if France doubts for itself and if the French are divided. Ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens sent us a clear message in the last presidential election. By their vote, they expressed their anger, their rejection of a system that costs them so much and brings them so little. By electing the President of the Republic, in the second round of the presidential election, they had the audacity of renewal and the courage of hope, this hope of a France which, returning to its place in Europe and in the concert of nations, brings them protection and prosperity. This hope must not be disappointed. This quinquennium must therefore be a success for France. We have a duty to improve the lives of our compatriots. Doing nothing or, worse, continuing as before would be betraying them. Thus, humanists, women and men from the right and the centre, especially from the IDU and the Republicans, we decided to gather in the group Les Constructives, a new parliamentary force in the National Assembly. Our convictions are strong, we will defend them. However, united in a constructive opposition approach, we wish to work in a free and responsible manner with the Government. Habited by the will to act, the duty to reform, we are determined to modernize the country. By going beyond the old partisan reflexes, our positions will be motivated exclusively by the service of the general interest. For us, the urgency is to respond to the great challenges facing France, first and foremost to the necessary regeneration of our democracy. It was essential, as the President of the Republic had mentioned, to modernise public action and to re-establish the link of trust between citizens and elected officials. However, let us not compromise the beneficial balance between renewal and experience. We should also be careful not to fall into a demagogic anti-parlementarianism. Parliamentarians need the means to fully carry out their legislative function, monitor Government action and evaluate public policies. We also want to reform the legislative process to make it both more time-bound and more collaborative with citizens, civil society. The President of the Republic also spoke about Europe. We welcome the revival of the Franco-German couple, which is the driving force behind the European dynamic. We are convinced that only the combined efforts of these two countries will enable the European Union to re-establish itself in order to better protect peoples and to deal more effectively, for example, with the new challenges of globalisation or migration flows. This commitment takes on a particular resonance at the time of Simone Veil's disappearance. A witness and victim of the ripples and abominations in the history of the continent, she placed Franco-German reconciliation and European construction at the centre of her commitment. The example of his life must inspire our political action. Our group also intends to play its full part in France's recovery project, by formulating credible, useful and effective proposals for our nation. We must thoroughly modernise the state and the French political and administrative organization; It's strategic, it's the key to sustainable control of public spending. We must put an end to the increase in taxation. We look kindly at the idea of new "trust agreements" with the territories. We need to improve the competitiveness of our businesses. In international competition, our country must adapt its fiscal, normative, social and labour-intensive framework; They are crucial conditions for returning to full employment. We must also restore the authority of the State. We must put an end to the chronic underinvestment in the justice system of this country, which is the source of so much evil in our society. We must strengthen our national defence in order to address, inter alia, the ever-increasing threat of Islamist terrorism. We must put France at the forefront of the ecological transition by making green growth a reality. We must reaffirm the prominent role of culture and education in our political project: by awakening minds, they must make it possible to give meaning to the evolutions of the contemporary world and to form free citizens. Finally, we must lead the digital transformation of our society, an issue of considerable sovereignty if we do not want to become the colonies of the giants of the American or Chinese Internet. Awareness of this situation at the highest level and our response to these issues are essential from an economic, social and societal point of view. [[Applause on many benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, France and the French have considerable assets and strengths to meet all these challenges. I am thinking in particular of the complementarity of our urban, rural and ultramarine spaces, of this desire to create, to innovate, to build which animates our compatriots but also and above all to the immense richness of French diversity, provided that we look at it with lucidity and benevolence, and to respect each citizen by allowing him to flourish and give the best of himself. Every citizen counts. Let's free the country's energies! Let's get to work without waiting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u23	The next speaker is Mr François Patriat, for the Republic on the move in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u24	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Head of State has set the course. We are thus given an exceptional event to create a real momentum: France needs a shock of confidence, a breath of historical depth and concrete. The President of the Republic did not come here to discuss a small political change or a simple change of parliamentary majority: he invited us to contribute to a change of world, let us not be afraid of words! In 1960, John Kennedy proposed to his fellow citizens to reactivate the oldest, the largest, the most beautiful American myth by inventing the New Frontier: the struggle for civil rights, the affirmation of active leadership over the free world and the conquest of space. Faced with the great social disarray of our country, we in turn have a great myth to propose to the French to give meaning, that is, direction and meaning to our action and to their mobilization. We must, in a way, continue to reinvent the Republic. For if democracy is a state that can be satisfied, the Republic is still an unfinished project. We will engage together this immense political project around three key words put forward by the Head of State during his campaign: gathering, trust, benevolence. The French must first come together, and we will work on it, as a symbol and an example, first between us, by persuading ourselves that an adversary is never an enemy. For my part, I do not consider any member of this assembly to be an enemy. But enemies, we have overabundantly, with those fanatics who betrayed their God, those servants of fear, preachers of hatred and bearers of death. They believe that we are discouraged because they do not understand the strength of universal values and especially of our faith in the fundamental unity of the human condition. We are stronger than them, taking into account a paradox that we must assume: in the worst of terrorists, there is also a man. If we are able to protect our fellow citizens from external and internal threats to their security, we will have done much to bring them together. That is why the reaffirmation of the place of a France once again respected in Europe and in the world is not a play of theatrical role but rather a priority of national politics. The second key word is trust. We must put an end to the sinister demagogy of those who sing to us the chorus of declineism and proclaim the shameful slogans of their complex of collective inferiority. We must put an end to these prophets of apocalypse on our feet. On the contrary, France must show its confidence in itself, in the talent of its inventors, in the genius of its creators, in the incredible vitality of its entrepreneurs. We have only one thing to do, but it is difficult: to free up initiatives, to give all their legal and financial opportunities to those who want to create and thus promote employment. One example will suffice, I take it, in the essential sector of the environment, which the Head of State has just mentioned: one can maintain, as in the old system of the right and the left, the costly nostalgia of a past world – it is revealing that the energies of pollution are called "fossil" –; on the contrary, we can say and demonstrate that a radical conversion to the energies of the future will generate thousands of jobs, that is, for our youth, the confidence regained in the future. I add to this keyword of confidence a dimension of emancipation, for the metropolis, of course, but also for the overseas ones, who eagerly await it. Definitely, we do not want this world described by the Grand Inquisitor in The Karamazov Brothers, where the power deprives the citizens of their freedom, of which they are afraid, in exchange for taking over all their responsibilities. On the contrary, we have the greatest confidence in freedom. However, we also know – it is the meaning of the benevolence key word – that in a globalised world, the field of fierce competition, some are less armed, less trained, less willing, sometimes even disabled. In this case, when she is alone, "it is freedom that oppresses," Lacordaire said before me. They are entitled to the protection afforded by the solidarity desired by any society worthy of that name. Reform of the Labour Code will only be a first step. All forms of liberation from creative forces must be accompanied by guarantees that will ensure our cohesion. It is the difficult balance between economic liberalism and social protection that defines exactly the progress we are demanding. That is what I call "reinventing the Republic" and I am very proud, like many of you, I am sure, of having been associated by the Head of State with the definition of this new militant horizon. In particular, I want to pay tribute to him for having imagined, first, that this immense effort is possible. It is often attributed to Seneca, Lenin or others this luminous formula that you have all taken up: "Where there is a will, there is a path. Go for Lenin or another! I salute this powerful resurgence of political voluntarism that the Head of State and the Government are now embodying. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear here and there, of course, about "monarchical drift", "Jupiterian power" or "excess of authority" about the President's address to Congress. I tell you that to make such a statement is to prefer small stories to history, to this story that summons us and will judge us. [[Applause on many benches]] In the land of Enlightenment and on the eve of the anniversary of the declaration of American independence, we are gathered to invent the future. So, hay of identity cards from the past, hay of outdated labels! The Republic on the march is neither right nor left – it has been widely criticized – nor is it in the middle; She's on the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u25	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor for the New Left Group of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u26	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, President Emmanuel Macron has finally chosen, to speak, the most convenient form, that of Congress, where, as soon as his speech is finished, he escapes: the President speaks, but he does not debate. He is no longer with us, but he has enough representatives here to hear me; So I want to talk to him. Mr President of the Republic, in a world where everything goes so fast and citizens' demands are so great, power depends less on the strength that is imposed than on the accession that is being generated. In May, then in June, you acquired the legitimacy of the power, but you have not yet won the French membership; It stays in front of you. Creating this membership is in one sentence, which is not mine, but from Pierre Mendès France: "Governing is choosing, however difficult the choices are. This is your problem, Mr. President of the Republic. You have decided to occupy the land by the vertical, you lay the authority, you mimic the man of decisions. But if we get out of the field, if we take the back of the field, the image is no longer as clear, not to say that it is sometimes blurred. This blur is summed up in a turn that is good of you, this one, and holds in three words: "at the same time". To choose, Mr President of the Republic, is not to advocate in Brussels the opening up to refugees and, at the same time, to allow associations to stigmatise and to accept that indignity settles in the vicinity of Calais. To choose is not to write that the state of emergency is not intended to last and, at the same time, to engrave exceptional measures in the marble of the common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u28	[[Applause on a few benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] To choose is not to pretend to moralize public life and, at the same time, to forget your commitments regarding incompatibility between parliamentary mandate and advisory activity, or on the blank criminal record. To choose is not to say that one wants to protect the world of work and, at the same time, to return to the penitential account, to facilitate dismissals or to cap compensation for unfair dismissal. To choose is not to show the will to increase the purchasing power of the popular and middle classes and, at the same time, to increase the CSG for pensioners in order to better reduce the tax on shareholders' wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u29	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u30	[[Applause on a few benches]] [[Murmures]] To choose is not to affirm the will to end the tax on housing, an unjust tax, and, at the same time, to make it bear on the local authorities, with the result of unbearable territorial inequalities. Choosing is not a cry to the world that we must make our planet "great again" and, at the same time, consider going back to the ban on neonicotinoids.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u31	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u32	There is only one "at the same time" that I regret not having heard: one cannot reform the public power without, at the same time, mentioning the omnipotence of private interests. Mr President of the Republic, to conduct a policy on the left and on the right is to conduct a policy without choice. In this assembly, we share the same love of France, the same desire as our country regains its greatness, the same concern to serve our fellow citizens at the best, but at the same time, to mix cold water and hot water, it has never given us anything but lukewarm water. Membership will therefore come from your choices. Will your policy be synonymous with progress for all? To build the future, it is not enough to value those who are already the most enterprising, while suggesting that others are nothing. You must recognize and accompany all talents, all potentials, and fight the human waste of unemployment, discrimination and drop-out. Everyone can contribute to the construction of our country; That is the republican promise, that of a generous Republic, which extends its hand to all its children. You cannot succeed in the reforms alone. Every time the new power from the ballot box felt that its legitimacy was sufficient to undertake reforms, they failed. Because your power is now absolute, you must be absolutely wary of it, temper it, moderate it and even share it. You owe it to the country and you owe it to yourself. Beware of the victory, Mr. President of the Republic, because she is sometimes a bad advisor. We saw it last week in the House, it was not a good signal. The rights of the opposition must always be respected. Beware of the victory, Mr President of the Republic, because it can lead to a certain navelism, where on the contrary we should renew our democracy. Listen, consult, respect the time required for parliamentary deliberations, ask civil society, which is not a sesame to be elected, but a source from which to draw solutions for tomorrow. As Michel Rocard said, what is accepted has infinitely more strength than what is imposed. Not all the debates were settled with your election; They remain open and ask to be educated. Beware of yourself, President of the Republic, for if the intuition that led you to power by the grace of the exhaustion of the government parties is a period, it does not establish a new one. It is not enough to bring together women and men from both sides to reinvent political divisions. Beware of yourself, Mr. President of the Republic, for your youth does not protect you from making a mistake at the time. To want to lead today to the hussard of reforms, some of which are borrowed from the past century, without questioning the tragedies that they have generated, would be a contradiction. The quality of your social reforms will depend on sharing their construction with employee representatives, whose work is the very source of all wealth. The success of the country's mobilization will depend on your support for the initiatives of citizens, associations, NGOs and entrepreneurs. France must break with the colbertist temptation, so well represented by Bercy's citadel. Will you first trust the French and French? Will you trust the territories, the local elected representatives, the communities they lead? In a decentralized Republic, the nation cannot succeed without working hand in hand with its cities and communes, its departments and its regions. From this point of view, reducing community endowments is a bad way to get on the path of trust and partnership that France needs. Mr. President of the Republic, in the schools in my constituency, the children now call you... Jupiter. It's both praiser and mocker. As you can see, our children have letters and common sense. They feel that the path you are taking is not necessarily that of a balanced exercise of power, active citizenship and open and shared deliberation, even though the past has already shown the impasse of personal power, and that your march was seeking a future based on the renewal of political life by valuing the diversity, pluralism and commitment of everyone. [[Applause on several benches]] Mr President of the Republic, whenever your decisions lead France on the road to shared progress, we will be there to deepen and consolidate them. On the other hand, every time your decisions will increase inequalities, make the most disarmed worse and weaken the public services, the heritage of those who have nothing – but are not nothing – you will encounter our firm opposition. You are committed to bringing politics into a new era and France into a new world. So we will judge you on your actions, only on your actions. That will be our contribution to the long-awaited renovation. In this new world, as you now know, there will also be a New Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u33	Mr Gilbert Barbier, for the European Democratic and Social Rally Group of the Senate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u34	[[Smile]] Mr President of the Congress, at the end of your election to the presidency of the National Assembly last week, you said: "We were collectively chosen by a minority of French and French." It's a truth that has to do with it. The President of the Republic regularly emphasizes benevolence. If it is not to be a vain word, it is important that pluralism continues to irritate our parliamentary assemblies. Indeed, how could a parliament that was trapped in the majority act guarantee that benevolence? Is it a sign of benevolence to decide the order of passage to this forum according to the importance of the political groups? I hope, Mr.President of the Senate, that you will not take this as a model for the High Assembly! On 8 May last, the French made the choice to bring a man to the presidency of the Republic who freed himself from the traditional political parties. This choice, our fellow citizens confirmed on 18 June, by offering an indisputable victory to the Republic on its way to the general elections. Today, the President of the Republic has made the choice to come and speak before Congress, it is his right. This seems to me all the more useful because, at the end of this long election campaign, which I followed and participated in, many questions remained unanswered, or at least without a sufficiently substantiated answer. Can we say that everything is clear now? We will have to decrypt the statement that we have just heard, which was dense, pleasant in the ear and of beautiful linguistics. I assume, Prime Minister, that you will provide us with more specific answers tomorrow, particularly with regard to public finances. You want to gather all the talents; In short, you want to govern at the centre. I remind you of Edgar Faure's good words: "The centre has the right to live on condition that the person dies. » If novelty has its charms, experience also has its virtues and, because the challenges facing France are immense, it will be necessary to hear, if not listen, everyone. In my view, the reformist will resulting from the ballot box, which many of you embody here, also needs, in order to succeed, all those elected, who have long been confronted with the realities of the field and the expectations of our fellow citizens. Our institutions have always maintained the political balance necessary for the proper exercise of democracy. During his campaign, the President of the Republic undertook, if elected, to introduce a proportional dose. We would have liked to know what the timetable for this reform will be. Pluralism is the reason for the RDSE, and the expression of the various political sensitivities has been fuelling our internal democratic debate for decades. We will therefore be vigilant, as we know, on this issue of political diversity. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it must be recognised that you have your hands free. It is a responsibility and, given the economic and social difficulties facing our country, it is a heavy responsibility. "Do not disappoint", likes to repeat the President of the Republic. Indeed, we will not have to disappoint. The road map, Emmanuel Macron, has drawn her up as a candidate, and he has just reminded us of her today as President. Yes, we need to simplify the labour code, lighten the daily lives of businesses, reform unemployment insurance to make it a universal right, with new requirements for everyone. Yes, we need to modernise our economy, provide it with an ambitious investment strategy for Hexagon but also for the overseas countries and territories. Yes, we need a new model of growth, reconciling ecological transition, industry of the future and agriculture of tomorrow. Yes, it is urgent to prepare for the future of our children, through a school that guarantees the acquisition of basic knowledge and citizenship training. The budgetary situation was not the one expected. A slip of more than 8 billion euros is not nothing. Further recovery measures will have to be considered because, at this stage, the target of a deficit of 2.8% of GDP appears to be unachieved. The previous quinquennium leaves accounts visibly tainted with insinuity. The equation will be difficult to solve. The Government wishes to implement a tax system that is close to or far from conducive to employment and growth; It is indeed a priority that we share. It is in this spirit of broad openness that the members of my group will shortly consider the bill enabling the Government to take labour-related measures by order. But this effort to free up energy for economic activity cannot be at the expense of other policies. France has important needs in the areas of justice, defence and the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u35	France is also a territory with social, cultural and digital divides. In addition to the urban world, there is the rural world, territories that demand appropriate responses, especially to the challenges of globalization. I fear that a two-speed France will be established, and that there will be a widening of the gap between the world of the newly established metropolises and the rest of the territory. This feeling is perceptible in our middle-city and rural areas. Let's hope their alarm cry is heard! The President of the Republic said he wanted a France to protect the most fragile; We want it, too. In this regard, the reform of the CSG is already a cause for concern, particularly among pensioners. Be aware that my group will be vigilant on this issue in the Senate. Finally, France is also bound by European commitments. With Germany, our country is seen as an engine of the European Union, which imposes duties on it. The President of the Republic has a very positive view of Europe, which can only be welcomed by the RDSE Group, which has always been committed to the construction of the Community. Ladies and gentlemen, we feel that we are at a turning point and that France's future depends on our ability to overcome blockages. Senators in the RDSE group are aware of the partition that is to consider the general interest before what their ideological and partisan path might dictate. Of course, we have political convictions, but they are based on republican values, which most often allow us to come together. Solidarity, secularism and humanism guide us and, as long as your policy is directed towards these objectives, Prime Minister, our group will be at your side. [[Applause on many benches]] Finally, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to speak with emotion of a personal memory. On March 16, 1978 – it was my first legislative campaign, as many of you have just lived it – and Simone Veil, then Minister of Health and Family, who had come to support me in Dole, said: "We cannot do everything at once, but we can all progress together in a social policy of justice and freedom and, above all, not let ourselves go to the promises that violate our freedoms. At this moment, my thoughts go to this great lady.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u36	I call Mr. Philippe Adnot, a non-attached senator.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u37	I ask you, Prime Minister, to greet the President of the Republic on my part and to tell him that he delivered a very beautiful, very profound and very interesting speech; I recognize that, but that does not mean that I intend to join all of its future proposals at the outset. By its very nature, non-attached parliamentarians do not express themselves collectively, each holding to its total freedom of spirit and expression. I am today the voice of those who do not recognize themselves in the spirit of a system. The texts and decisions that will be proposed to us will be examined in accordance with the interests of our country and our fellow citizens, without a priori but with absolute freedom. I also hope that the same will be the case when we have to compare the votes of the two Assemblies, and that the Joint Joint Committees will be a fruitful and respectful forum for exchange. Our fellow citizens would not understand that dialogue is limited to the majority self. The institutional reform, which has been widely discussed today, will also be a good test. Many elements are interesting and can suit us. For example, in my personal capacity, the decrease in the number of parliamentarians is perfect for me. Other aspects will not agree with us, and we will have to be able to discuss them. Proportional, perhaps, but at very small doses, if a balanced territorial representation is to be maintained. On the other hand, we will not have to diminish the freedom of choice of our fellow citizens; These are the key words. To limit the number of mandates over time is to undermine this freedom, while our fellow citizens must not be forced to do so; It is the door open to drifts that could become disturbing. Similarly, we and our fellow citizens have the right to equity, and I do not see why the spouses of the grandchildren should have less rights than others. In my opinion, there is an exaggeration on which we will have to go back. Prime Minister, we have had little time this afternoon to talk about employment. None of the many reforms mentioned will be of value to our society unless we are able to solve the problem of unemployment and the problem of public deficits. We will therefore examine your proposals carefully and with interest. The ambition must be to ensure that our companies are capable of gaining market share because that is the key to job creation in our country. As for the control of financial balances – you will be obliged to propose measures in this direction – it will require the efforts of all the components of our society. These efforts are and will be necessary, but to be understood and accepted, they must be fair and effective. It will therefore be necessary to avoid contradictions and to put an end to the normative frenzy which obsesses the financial capacities of each. Every day, new obligations deprive our fellow citizens of indispensable resources. Every day, new constraints affect the budgets of our local and regional authorities; They cannot be asked to manage the most justly while constantly obliging them to incur new expenses. [[Applause on several benches]] I believe I am the interpreter of the parliamentarians present here, saying that we are ready and that the French are ready to make the necessary effort if it is devoted to the essentials, if it is effective and fair, if it is not contradictory. That is the state of mind that I would like you to adopt, Prime Minister. It's mine, anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-03-O1001.u38	The meeting is adjourned.
