ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Paul Christophe and several of his colleagues to extend the scheme for giving untaken days of rest to family caregivers (No 228, 425).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u2	Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, two years after the adoption of the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, it is with a certain emotion that I present myself before you to defend a bill that really holds me at heart. The choice made by the IDU, Action and Independent Group to highlight the theme of the carers from the beginning of this legislature obviously owes nothing to chance. Caregivers have long experienced a level of recognition inversely proportional to the importance of their role in our society. Invisible pivots of our social protection system for people with disabilities such as elderly people who are losing their autonomy, caregivers – family caregivers, it was previously said, close caregivers since the ASV law – are not only the support solution preferred by the people concerned, far ahead of professional home helpers and institutions; It is also an unparalleled solidarity force, which, according to the associations, now includes 11 to 13 million people. We must be aware of this reality: today, half of the assets and one third of pensioners are caregivers. Let us make it clear that this remarkable dedication of many of our fellow citizens is also an opportunity for our social protection system, which, on the basis of these volunteers, realizes de facto savings. While family caregivers naturally do not ask for remuneration for what they do, this fundamental role they play for their relatives and in the interests of their loved ones has a cost: the cost of time often taken on holidays, on leisure time, on family time, sometimes on working time; the cost, too often, of giving up all or part of his career or even any professional activity, especially since many companies are insufficiently aware of these problems; Finally, several studies have shown the cost of weakening one's own health when the effort proves to be too heavy. I stress the importance of these sacrifices for the generation that the associations I have met call "pivot generation": these women and men who will probably have to take care of both their parents and their children. In view of this situation, our society must, without being able to give back to the caregivers everything they bring, recognize their action, facilitate their daily lives and accompany them as much as possible. Recognition has long existed for family caregivers of persons with disabilities. They are entitled to social rights, particularly in retirement, which the established order has proposed since 1975, and can also be paid the disability compensation benefit of the aided person without necessarily being employed by him. Caregivers of the elderly who are losing their autonomy now fall into the category of caregiver under the ASV Act, which goes beyond the single family setting. Information and training activities, financed in particular by the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, have been carried out for several years. Notwithstanding these efforts, and without neglecting the role played by associations, local information and coordination centres – CLIC – and the communal centres for social action – CCAS – I am quick to note the weakness and inadequacy of these mechanisms, on which new solutions will be needed. This will require more effective and better-shared communication tools. We are also likely to have to give caregivers the privileged interlocutors to answer their questions and communicate on existing arrangements. The training of carers is probably still in its infancy; We will have to incorporate into our thinking not only the training which allows us to be a good helper, but also the training which facilitates the return to working life of the caregivers who have totally or partially left him. Without ignoring the importance of these first two aspects, I would like to stress today the third: we must do everything in our power to facilitate the lives of caregivers – sometimes referred to as "help for caregivers" – because this is an essential issue for the future of our dependency policy. Apart from the question of whether we recognize caregivers sufficiently, or whether they have at their disposal the tools to know and fulfil their mission, we need to ask ourselves about the difficulty of being a helper today on a day-to-day basis. The present situation of carers is indeed crucial because it determines very broadly who and, above all, how many carers will be in the future. The studies are very clear: people who have been caregivers or who have seen loved ones often give up becoming caregivers or becoming caregivers themselves, because they are aware of the difficulties that this entails. All public authorities must therefore assess the urgency of limiting these difficulties as much as possible, so as not to find themselves faced with a generation of concerned and distraught caregivers who will abandon this choice of support to the benefit of more costly solutions. Given that this shared objective had been established, it was necessary to consider how this could be achieved. We could have chosen a maximalist solution, i.e. to incorporate into the text all the proposals we have heard about: easing the conditions for entitlement to respite or caregiving leave, compensating for these schemes, opening up pension rights for carers of elderly people who have lost their autonomy, creating rights to unemployment or training, or creating a fifth risk for the social security system. I am, of course, very familiar with all these issues, which I hope will be the subject of debate in the coming weeks. From this point of view, I welcome the Minister's announcements to consider a number of proposals. The text we are discussing today gives you one in particular, pending this more comprehensive approach. The aim is to provide a legal framework for the donation of days of rest for the benefit of caregivers of elderly people with a particular serious loss of autonomy. This framework is already very much inspired by the bill passed by Parliament in 2014 on the donation of rest days to the parent of a seriously ill child. At this stage, I would like to stress the relevance of the choice of starting with the theme of giving days of rest what I hope to be a rapid and complete cycle of progress. The first reason is that this subject, if it does not reach a consensus, as our committee debates have shown, brings together our assembly very broadly, which is reflected in the diversity of the signatories to the bill. It was indeed important that one of the first signals sent to caregivers remind them that they are at the heart of our concerns, far beyond partisan divisions and political affiliations. We sometimes see a form of unbelief on the part of the former concerned as regards our ability to improve their situation, and we must enable them to overcome these doubts by being both determined and constructive in order to move forward step by step on these issues. In this regard, the examination of our bill is in line with the Government's announcements and the recommendations of the information report of my colleagues Agnès Firmin le Bodo and Charlotte Lecocq on the implementation of the ASV law, and should prefigure the work that will be conducted by my colleague Pierre Dharréville as rapporteur of a "flash mission" of the Social Affairs Committee on the subject. The second reason is the very important role that the company seems to have to play in the progress that we are likely to make in this area. Progress has been achieved through remodelled schemes in the Labour Code, such as caregiving leave; But we must note that the whole is still insufficient. If we pass this bill, we will send a clear message to the human resources directorates across the country: any employee, or any employer, is or will be helping at some point in his or her life, and we must support all solidarity initiatives through which those who need it most can benefit from the available leave. Let me return to the philosophy of the scheme, with a little anticipation of some of the criticisms made to it. The donation of leave days, as proposed in the text, does not remove any employee. This is an additional device that may or may not be combined with the caregiver's leave of absence. He has his own interest: today, the caregiving leave is neither remunerated nor compensated, which can be regretted; In fact, many people cannot afford to take it. I believe that we need to trust the helpers in order to make good use of these possibilities, on the one hand, and the sincerity of an act which is based first on a spirit of solidarity, on the other. The third reason, which is not the least, is the approval given to the scheme by the vast majority of the associations I have met. I am fully aware that the text will not solve all the problems that caregivers are experiencing today; That is not his objective, you will have understood it. Far from being a final point, it is the most unifying and relevant entry into the matter for the National Assembly to take full advantage of this beautiful subject, where it is a question of dedication, family, friendship and solidarity. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] During the previous legislature, the ASV law provided in a consensual climate several answers that are now insufficient. In L'Art poétique, Nicolas Boileau gave us this illuminating advice: "Have slowly, and, without losing courage,/ Twenty times on the job put your work back on."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u4	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u5	It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that this beginning of a new legislature and this first niche of the UAI group give us an excellent opportunity to put our work back on the job, to the benefit of the millions of women and men of good will that we will need to meet the enormous challenges of ageing. I know your impatience, on all the benches, to give all your support to the carers, and I share it to a large extent; But this is a first step which is being put to your vote today, and which will, I hope, lead to a lot of good news for the carers after it. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI, LR, REM, MODEM and NG groups]] With the vote on this proposal, I hope to find in this Chamber 577 ambassadors for the caregivers' cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u6	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u7	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House, "the man," wrote philosopher Simone Weil, "would like to be selfish and cannot. It is the most striking character of his misery and the source of his greatness." It is to this extent, Mr rapporteur, that your proposal for a law appeals. It is to this great extent, ladies and gentlemen, that you have shown your deep commitment by adopting this bill in committee by a very large majority. The aim of the text is to encourage, through greater legal security, the momentum of solidarity between colleagues at work when one of them is going through a particularly difficult period of existence. This initiative, which is to extend the amount of unused leave that has existed since the 2014 law for parents of seriously ill children, seems particularly timely. I myself defended this principle under other skies – you will allow me this personal touch – when I led the human resources of the Danone group: the trade unions and many employees had come to ask us for this measure for one of their colleagues whose child was seriously ill. At the time, it was not authorized by law; We did it anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u9	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u10	I would be happy if the law secures and encourages this kind of approach. It is solidarity that is at the heart of our debates this morning: solidarity within the family, in friendship, in the neighbourhood. This spirit of solidarity is the driving force of the 8 to 11 million of our fellow citizens, the vast majority of whom are women, who regularly help one of their relatives in situations of loss of autonomy, ageing or disability, whether young or old, in order to enable them to remain at home with a person of trust. The fundamental role of caregivers and the pressure on their shoulders will increase in the coming years as the population ages. You have clearly set out the reasons for this, Mr rapporteur, in particular the demographic changes in our country and the increase in chronic diseases. Caregivers already have an additional 60% risk of contracting a stress- or overwork-related illness. This figure is considerable and reflects the self-sacrifice shown by caregivers, who, for almost half of them, are active. For them, therefore, articulating professional life and caring life – not to mention personal life, especially for those called the "pivotal generation" that cares for both young and old people – is a daily challenge. It is precisely because there is this strong interaction between the caregiver's personal life and his or her professional activity that this challenge goes beyond the caregiver. It affects the whole of its working environment, which must be organised on the one hand to make up for its absences, and on the other hand to accompany it in this difficult time when it is present on its workplace. This is a major issue, on which employers, human resources and the social partners must step up their power, just as voluntary practices are already at work in some companies. To this end, the orders which the Assembly ratified very broadly at first reading last week provide the appropriate framework for the actors of social dialogue to find, as close as possible to the ground, large-scale pragmatic solutions to this societal challenge, in addition to the action of the public authorities. It is by providing the legal certainty necessary for these solidarity movements in the world of work that we will support and promote intergenerational solidarity among relatives. That is precisely what motivates the tabling of your bill, Mr.Rapporteur, and, as I said, which inspired the law of 9 May 2014 allowing the donation of rest days to a parent of a seriously ill child. This bill, which extends this scheme to family caregivers, thus complements our legislative framework, which has recently undergone changes, sometimes too limited, with the Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing. I shall mention three of them: the recognition of the status of close helper, even though it has certain limitations that you have mentioned, Mr rapporteur; the creation of caregiving leave; the creation of a right of respite, financed as part of the allocation of the personalized autonomy allowance. But as you yourself have said, Mr rapporteur, this bill does not purport to address all the important issues relating to the situation of family caregivers. That is why the Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly has launched several fact-finding missions on this subject, and I would like to welcome this mobilisation, which concerns all the benches. In particular, it is reflected in the setting up of a "flash mission" on family caregivers, which will be led by Pierre Dharréville. This mission is itself part of the follow-up to the information report on the application of the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, recently rendered by Agnes Firmin Le Bodo and Charlotte Lecocq. These reports feed into the work initiated by the Government, in the context of the development of the National Health Strategy for the period 2018-2022, which is being carried out by my colleague Agnès Buzyn, in order to better protect those who protect. The Government is fully mobilized to improve the quality of support for caregivers, a real guarantee of a better quality of support for our elderly and people with disabilities. Among the elements that will need to be developed in the future is the question of home respite. As Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, said on Tuesday during his hearing in the Assembly, a three-year test of baluchonage was introduced into the draft law for a state at the service of a trustworthy society, which introduces a right to error. I'm also thinking about respite in institutions, in day hospitals. There is also a need to improve the identification of carers' frailties by healthcare professionals. Finally, and we come back more specifically to your bill, it is essential not to reduce the supporter to this role alone and to promote reconciliation with other important areas of his life, including professional life. Together with my colleagues Agnès Buzyn and Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disability, I therefore entrusted a mission on this subject to Dominique Gillot, President of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities. One of the two priorities of his mission is to support the return and retention of family caregivers, whether part-time or full-time, depending on their choice. To do so, the Mission will need to assess the needs of caregivers, work with the voluntary sector and make proposals to define appropriate pathways to access employment. Its conclusions are expected by next March, in order to feed, if necessary, the draft law on the security of career paths, apprenticeships, vocational training and unemployment insurance which will be submitted to you next spring. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, IAU, LR and NG groups]] Because this bill contributes to the awakening or mobilization of consciences about the situation of caregivers, because it is in line with the President of the Republic's programme on dependency, because it corresponds to his desire to strengthen social cohesion and solidarity among our fellow citizens, the Government will give him a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u11	In the general debate, Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are today considering a bill tabled by my colleague Paul Christophe, which aims to extend the donation of days of rest not taken in the framework of companies to family caregivers. Let me begin by congratulating my colleague on the quality and relevance of his work. It raises a major issue which almost all political groups welcomed the opportunity and interest in the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. The almost transparency of this bill is reflected in the diversity of co-signatories. "The carers cannot be the variable for adjusting our public policies": these are the words of the carers' representatives, consulted in the context of the mission to assess the implementation of the Domicile part of the Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing, known as the ASV Act, whose report was jointly issued by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and the General Inspectorate of the Administration last September. It is the merit of this bill to seek to improve the situation of the millions of our fellow citizens who dedicate themselves to accompanying the elderly in a situation of loss of autonomy on a daily basis, whether it be their parents, a member of their family or simply a person close to them. Its device is characterized by its great simplicity and operational character. It aims to encourage the donation of days of rest not taken in companies for caregivers caring for an elderly person, following the model of the law of 9 May 2014, which had allowed the endorsement of a practice already existing in companies, that of giving days of rest for employees caring for a seriously ill child. By including this mechanism in the law, we will provide a stable framework for the expression of this solidarity, so that it can benefit as many people as possible. In this way, we will respond to a lack of the ASV law, which, it is true, has enabled major advances in family caregivers. It has thus recognized the status of "near helper", which goes beyond family members alone. The ASV Act has also introduced a number of measures to better take into account the needs of family caregivers, including the reform of family support leave, which has become caregiving leave. In addition, it has created a right to respite, which is a legitimate recognition of the difficulty of the caregiving family. However, this law did not take into account the issue of the donation of days of rest in companies, even though this is an essential subject. In fact, the majority of carers are employed in parallel with their accompaniment work, and are often penalized for this reason. Several studies have shown that it is indeed very difficult to keep a professional activity calm, while devoting the time, energy and dedication to accompaniment of a person in a situation of dependence. In its report on the evaluation of the ASV Act, the IGAS notes that it is essential not to reduce the caregiver to his or her sole role as a caregiver. Reconciling the role of caregiver with other areas of life, whether family life, professional life or leisure, thus makes accompanying caregivers a major challenge. Moreover, a survey carried out in 2015 by the Association française des carers shows that the impact of their action on their health is far from negligible. For example, about 48% of caregivers interviewed in occupational medicine report having health problems that they did not have until they were caregivers. This bill is therefore a further step forward in a more comprehensive project that we must take, that of adapting society to the ageing of a growing part of its members. For it is clear that the challenge of such an adaptation is still before us. Demographic trends illustrate this: the proportion of people aged 75 and over was 7% in 1990 and will be 9% in 2020 and 18% in 2070, respectively. By that date, more than one Frenchman in three will be over sixty years old, compared to one in four today. Taking these developments into account was the ambition of the Act on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing, the primary objective of which was to keep the elderly at home for as long as possible. A number of major projects remain outstanding, on which we will not be able to avoid a thorough reflection. I am indeed convinced, and it was the meaning of the proposals we presented yesterday, together with my colleague Charlotte Lecocq, when we presented the evaluation report on the application of the ASV law in the Committee on Social Affairs, that it is our society and our living environment as a whole that must adapt to these demographic changes. This transformation must affect all sectors, in all their dimensions, whether it be city policy or access to cultural and sports services. Maintaining community services and revitalizing the village centres of our towns and villages, especially in rural areas, is therefore a key issue. Employment should also be promoted and reoriented to support the elderly, as this is a major economic opportunity. I am thinking of the services of the silver economy, the economy of gray hair, and the technical developments related to home automation. The question of sustainable financing of dependency care, which is often associated with the question of the creation of a fifth branch of social security, must also be put on the table. In fact, that was the meaning of an amendment that Members of my group made during the consideration of the Social Security funding bill last month. The question to be asked is, moreover, less about the means to be provided than about the logic of financing. In 1945, at the time of the creation of social security, life expectancy was close to sixty years. Today it reaches seventy-nine years for men and eighty-five years for women. The issue of addiction risk was logically not considered. Can we now maintain the same funding logic as before, when needs have changed? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, you have understood that the IUD Group, Action and Independents, of course, will support this bill of common sense. Mr. Rapporteur, you have with you, in addition to the Government, thirty-four other carers' ambassadors. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI and LR groups, as well as on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We invite all members of this assembly to do the same, both the accompaniment and the well-being of our elders, as well as the people at their side, are issues that concern us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u13	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are considering the first bill tabled by our colleagues in the UDI Group, Action and Independents, as part of their reserved agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u15	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u16	The purpose of this bill is to extend the day-of-rest arrangement to family caregivers. I would like to welcome this initiative, which allows us, in the continuation of our discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, to envisage a serene beginning of the day and to the height of the stakes. We find ourselves at the crossroads between a political issue on the perimeter that must be that of state intervention and a much more philosophical question than one might think. Indeed, as sociologist Serge Guérin points out in the Project magazine in 2012, around the place we want to give to caregivers, it is also, and perhaps above all, to question in order to better find what "the sense of care" must be, in a society of well-being and attention to the other, of the one who, because of his state of disability or illness, is more fragile. This issue and this issue are bigger than we are. In a society where the temptation to retreat is ever more important, the place of our caregivers and the strengthening of their condition are a matter of prime importance. There are 8 million caregivers. I want to pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u17	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u18	According to a study carried out in August 2015 for the Espace éthique de la région Île-de-France among people accompanying a loved one, many of them claim to be won by discouragement and say they first feel physical fatigue, then stress, and finally a feeling of loneliness. The prevalence of these feelings increases, of course, with the intensity of the help. Despite this, two-thirds of respondents – exactly 63% – felt that their caregivers were doing well. On the other hand, 87% of caregivers feel that their activity is beneficial for the assisted person, 62% for society and 44% for themselves. On the other hand, 85 per cent of caregivers feel that their role is not valued by society, while 89 per cent feel that family caregivers develop expertise and skills that could be shared. It is aware of this reality that we will present two amendments in the course of the debate, in order to improve the consideration of the needs for rights, training and valorisation of the assistance activity for the consideration of pension rights. Indeed, some family caregivers decide to leave their jobs in order to devote themselves to a dependent person and thereby lose the benefits associated with them, including the right to retirement. This is clearly a departure from the recognition that we all want to give to caregivers, regardless of our benches. We need to go further. So, as in the debate in committee, I want to put to you a question from my group: we still do not understand why another bill to extend pension rights for family caregivers has been tabled, although it would have been very relevant and coherent to merge the two texts into one. That's a bit of a shame, Mr. Rapporteur. Of course, the Government intends to propose pension reform. Allow the parliamentarian that I am, whose second mandate is, to stress that a commitment made by the Government can take some time before it becomes reality... When it materializes! Morality: we would benefit from taking a step ahead. After all, we are very unanimous in agreeing on the importance of this issue on pensions. I was referring to the philosophical dimension of this bill a moment ago. To see the reality, the text of our colleagues adequately responds to it. However, if on a more political level – in the sense of building an ambitious long-term policy – this debate can take place in such a coherent and intelligent way, it is because we are not leaving anything. Indeed, this text is in line with the orientations advocated under the previous quinquennium, in particular with the law for the adaptation of society to ageing. Many of us do not fail to refer to it this morning. The Act of 28 December 2015 for the adaptation of society to ageing had introduced a right of respite for caregivers, whereas they had previously to take unpaid leave to help their loved ones. The scheme has been beneficial in extending the scope of beneficiaries, as one in five caregivers support a relative other than a parent or child. On the other hand, the effective implementation of this right is more easily achieved through telework or arranged timetables. This bill highlights the consistency of the choices made in this previous law, which was intended to bear the new philosophical ambition that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Proof that a new step had been taken: a report had been produced under the previous legislature by our colleague Joëlle Huillier, in order to go further in the formulas of respite proposed to the carers, to consider a model based on "relaying", inspired by the Quebec example. This underscores the close interlinkage between philosophical vision and political reach. [[Applause on a few benches of the UAI group and the REM group]] Your bill is an invitation to continue the reflection. We can therefore only agree with that, provided that we do not refuse to go to the substance of the debate to which our amendments invite. In this case, we will be pleased to see that we are working usefully towards a more gentle, humane society and listening to each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u19	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the work of our colleague Paul Christophe, the main author of the text. On the subject, we co-signed his bill some time ago to extend the retirement rights of family caregivers. By its consistency, our colleague draws our attention to an important subject: the inability of our society and the right to properly accompany family caregivers who decide to support people who are losing their autonomy because of disability, illness or age. According to the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, in 2011, there are no fewer than 8.3 million people over the age of 16 who regularly assist a relative. In 23% of cases, this aid is reinforced by that of a professional. In order to fulfil their role, more than a quarter of the family caregivers who work have already taken leave of absence, as if caring for a sick, disabled or lost parent could be considered a vacation. Sometimes it is rather a matter of the priesthood – and it is not an insult to say it. It is in my view unfair to deprive people of their right to leave to rest. In the 2000s, we saw the arrival of a special provision: the creation of a leave of absence for caregivers. The employer has an obligation to grant them special leave that is not recorded on their leave with pay. The employee may even split his leave so as to work part-time. In the event that the employer does not grant his request, the employee may challenge the decision before the workers who will decide on the application for interim relief. We must welcome, of course, this progress, what I am doing here. But – because there is always a "but" – you have to bring a flat to all of this: caring leave is unpaid leave. Yet you know how much people need financial means when they experience situations of dependency. You will agree with me that this causes or is likely to cause difficulties in paying bills and other living expenses. It is for these reasons that we will submit an amendment to you to ensure that the caregiver's leave is paid. Then President Hollande arrived. Emmanuel Macron, the current President of the Republic, became secretary general of the Elysée, co-edited or at least inspired the El Khomri law. What is there about family caregivers? Simply that the terms of the caregiver's leave can be defined by a company agreement. I would like to draw your attention: this provision masks a real setback, especially since the adoption of the ordinances reforming the Labour Code a few weeks ago, since they introduced the principle of corporate referendum, particularly for companies with less than twenty employees. Indeed, one can easily imagine that the family caregiver is a minority in the company and that the agreement reached is unfavourable to him. In the La France group, we believe that companies do not have to adapt the arrangements for the leave of the caring relative to the needs of their activity, because this can go against the caregiver, but above all against the helper. That is why we believe that it is the law, and the Republic, to decide. As you know, in too many cases it is the law that protects and the excess of freedom that oppresses. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on this, and no one can deny or challenge it: the ageing of the population is the major challenge of this century. In 2060, one third of the French population will be over sixty years old, while in 2005 this proportion was only 20%. By 2060, our country will have more than 200,000 centenaries, INSEE tells us. Moreover, with the increase in precariousness and the general deterioration of living conditions, we know that there will be more and more situations of dependency. Imagine how the situation will evolve, where insecurity and unemployment are the highest – I am thinking in particular of our suburbs and our ultramarine territories. In the overseas regions, the image of a young population and a dynamic demography is in the process of being reversed. Today, we are even talking about the risk of "demographic violence": Guadeloupe, Martinique and La Réunion are now among the departments most affected by ageing. Considerable disruptions in families are expected. We will have to deal with it with strength, clarity and responsibility. We also know that many studies highlight the high inequalities between overseas populations and Hexagon, with a more frequent and earlier deterioration of health status. Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully: in Réunion, for example, according to various surveys, the proportion of people who report having a disability in the 50-59 age group is equivalent to that of the 70-79 age group in metropolitan France. The same gap of about 20 years is true for those who experience difficulties in performing acts of daily life, such as dressing or grooming. Imagine the situation in 2060! It's a time bomb, and poor territories like overseas are suffering double pain. This is unacceptable. That is why we must stick together and find solutions together. How to heal? How to accompany? How to stay? The adoption of this bill to extend the scheme for giving untaken days of rest to family caregivers can be a positive contribution not to be overlooked, but only if we know how to avoid a trap. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In fact, nothing in this project protects family caregivers from abuse of the law on the part of employers. We therefore propose that the day-of-rest donation scheme can only be activated once the employee has been granted the leave of the caring relative which the employer owes him. It would be too easy, if not for some ill-intentioned employers, to put the duty of solidarity on colleagues rather than to comply with their legal obligations. The Group of the European People's Party proposes several amendments to enable this text to be effective, in particular on the points I have just outlined. Our vote will depend in part on what happens to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u21	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, to help hers, those who we love, is what we do during our lives, to the extent that we are able to give. But there are moments, situations in existence, where the need for help is more pressing, stronger, more acute. In the life of a family, it often pushes the plans. We are unequal in the face of these hazards of existence, in our needs as well as in our possibilities. Loss of autonomy, disability, disability or sick child, these situations are not identical or quite comparable, but they create a particular need for support. The question is not entirely new. However, the role of carers – most often the carers – has grown in our society for several years, and with it the recognition of this work. Individuals and families facing these questions provide their answers, as best they can. This is remarkable. Associations for the defence of persons with disabilities have long been warning about the situation and the lack of assistance provided. Parents facing the serious illness of one of their children are also placed in a material situation that adds to their difficulties. With the acceleration of population ageing, the issue of caregivers has become even more pervasive. Ageing is a major issue for the coming times. Age in dignity, be accompanied: this aspiration is that of everyone, of everyone; It should be a right. But in order to establish a right, we must take the means to do so. In the case of loss of autonomy, there is something that falls within the drama of the human condition, even if it can be sublimated or experienced in the appeasement of a continued relationship. It's not that easy to see someone get away. We must guarantee the right for everyone to age with dignity. Each one does not necessarily have the possibility or even – and this is not to blame – the desire to help or to be helped, to enter into this relationship of special care which may exceed the filial, fraternal, parental or friendly relationship and which, moreover, requires, beyond availability, certain provisions of mind and sometimes qualifications. Faced with the challenge of aging, which is not only an individual question, but comes to question the whole society in its ability to treat its elders well, it has been necessary to invent answers to the auction, in a world where families themselves are often scattered. All this represents a considerable amount of free work. On a family scale, this can be a puzzle and the response to the need may sometimes prove unsustainable. This often highlights the public service's inability to take on the tasks it should have. On all the benches of this assembly, the awareness of this issue is present. Our company is in search: after the personalized autonomy allowance, APA, a law was passed in 2015, establishing a legal definition of the caregiver's immediate carer and laying down new provisions such as the right to respite and the carer's leave. The report by our colleagues Charlotte Lecocq and Agnes Firmin Le Bodo showed the difficulties of its implementation, raised questions and suggested avenues. To be here today to examine texts that are the result of a parliamentary initiative is significant and too rare not to be stressed. This bill tabled by Mr Paul Christophe on behalf of the UAI Group has the merit of highlighting the situation of carers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u24	Is she the right front door?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u26	In our view, the answer is not appropriate to the issues and raises several objections. Out of honesty and for the clarity of our exchanges, I must say so and explain to myself as simply and humbly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u27	You're leaving well, though...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u28	First, it cannot be enough to meet the needs of caregivers – but you have recognized it. At most it can play a troubleshooting role, but we know that it will not bring what is necessary in terms of volume, not only to the person in a situation of help, who will not be assured of having all the time necessary to accompany the loved one in loss of autonomy according to his needs, but also in the global sense, which can only fill a tiny part of the considerable needs of what must be considered not as a risk, but as a state. Secondly, it will make employees of a company bear the burden of dependency or loss of autonomy of an old man, which is a random and singular way of organizing or not really organising solidarity, regardless of the generous feelings that we have no doubt she wishes to appeal to. There is a need for national solidarity on this issue; solidarity here is individual and random, instead of being collective and mutualized. In addition, this possibility could have perverse effects, as it could lead to a mechanism of corporate responsibility and affect labour relations. And we must add to this the inequality which it will induce, depending on the company, large or small, in which we work, the branch in question, and the propensity of its colleagues to enter into this mechanism. Finally, it is not the role of paid leave or the reduction of working time to finance the loss of autonomy and to supplement the blatant shortcomings of the public authorities in this field. This bill introduces the principle that paid leave is not attached to the employee but is transferable. However, the right to rest is a constitutional requirement that should not be called into question, however important the subject we are dealing with. This right is not optional. It is therefore a trompe-l'oeil answer for us, especially since the carer's leave that currently exists does not give rise to the employer's pay and is not associated with a replacement income, and the family solidarity leave gives rise to an insufficient amount of compensation. It is also necessary to take into account the lengthening of working hours and the weakening of pension rights experienced in recent years. As I said in committee, the UAI Group had a bill that took a more interesting path in terms of pension rights for carers, especially since, according to the studies, the debauchery of energy and stress caused by this aid work would affect their life expectancy. There's a lot to make up. The Social Affairs Committee has decided on a "flash mission" on this issue. Conducting in a wide-ranging spirit with the desire to create concrete perspectives and progress, this mission can allow us to approach the issue of caregivers with a more peripheral look. It is more or less 10 million people who are in this situation as caregivers; Some have chosen it, others have not. We must no doubt better mark their situation and establish a real status with effective rights. They carry out valuable social and human work at the societal level. When it comes to pensioners, they often help both their children, grandchildren and parents. By the way, since this solidarity is not only temporal, we see clearly, by looking at things through this prism, that the increase in the CSG will all the more unjustly burden many of them and of them and weaken their ability to play that pivotal role which is theirs. The reality of the carers, their own need for help also encourages the inventing of new jobs and the development of professional services that become indispensable; This is a source of new jobs. The aspiration to stay at home must be heard as much as possible. When caregivers can extend that time, it must be made easier, recognized, without, however, clearing the community from its own responsibilities – it finds its own account. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Of course, this issue is not at all the broad question of ageing to which our society must provide the appropriate answers. We need an offensive and coordinated national policy of autonomy. The link between the different possible formulas for loss of autonomy, disability or disability will have to be developed. Caregivers, if isolated in a desert of public medical services and in the face of a deterioration of the care tool, will be plunged into increased difficulties. Their ties with institutions for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs, are a path to be cleared. In addition, the question of financing old-day needs will have to be raised, in the spirit that led to the establishment of our social welfare system. It is not up to complementary private insurance – whether or not one can afford to be rich or miserable – to cover this state of loss of autonomy. We must invent a social response to the challenge. Our debate today will therefore not conclude the matter. I want to believe that in this field of deep inequalities, there will be proposals, as soon as possible, that can bring us together to produce the progress expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u29	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the 2006 Family Conference defined the caregiver as "the non-professional person who assists primarily, partly or totally, a person dependent on his or her surroundings, in the activities of daily life. This regular assistance can be provided on a permanent or non-permanent basis and can take several forms." It concerns the activities of daily life, the simple gestures that can become insurmountable. Caregivers are on average 52 years old and 57 per cent of them are women. They range from 8 million to 12 million, a figure that is difficult to establish precisely given the number of people who do not consider themselves to be caregivers, but who do. This morning I would like to draw your attention to those who are part of the working population of our country: they are 4 million, almost half of the caregivers, working at the same time. For example, 14 per cent of employees in our country are involved in this vital and valuable aid process. They provide assistance to children with serious illnesses, persons with disabilities, elderly people who have lost their autonomy or are dependent on them. According to the aided person, caregivers do not have access to the same rights; However, they face the same types of daily difficulties. In addition to a very strong mental load, the caregiver is often isolated and faced with many questions, both in terms of administrative and practical orientations and in terms of the proper management of this life course that he or she accompanies. In the majority of cases, they are not prepared for this situation and face it with intelligence, common sense and benevolence – and that is to their credit. To preserve their professional lives, they have to make many efforts and give up, most often at the expense of their privacy. We then easily understand the exhaustion that can be theirs. However, such a fragile balance between working life, family life and helping life is essential for them to maintain. While leave arrangements are provided for by law, they do not allow the caregiver to meet his or her needs. As a reminder, the caregiving leave allows to accompany a relative in loss of autonomy; Family solidarity leave concerns caregivers accompanying a close relative at the end of their life; parental attendance leave is intended for parents assisting a child under the age of 20 who is seriously ill or disabled. While it is possible, under certain conditions, to receive a daily allowance during such leave, in particular for family solidarity leave and parental attendance leave, these three leave periods have as a common point not to be paid. Beyond what has just been mentioned, financial difficulties can potentially be added to an already very heavy situation. It should also be noted that the vast majority of carers demonstrate their willingness to preserve their professional activity, in order to meet a material need, but also for the social link that work represents and the friendly support that it can provide. The "Mathys" law of 2014, which was extended to the public service in 2015, allows for the donation of days of rest not taken, between colleagues, for the parents of a child under the age of 20 with a serious illness or disability. The proposal for a law by our colleague Paul Christophe, under discussion this morning, aims to extend the donation of days of rest between colleagues to family members helping a person who is losing his autonomy of a particular gravity. This generosity between colleagues can allow the caregiver either to have more time to devote to the helper, or to give a little respite. This text also responds to a campaign promise from our President. It seeks and promotes solidarity between companies on the model of what is already done with the "Mathys" law. It is based on anonymity and volunteerism. This call for inter-firm solidarity should also have the effect of raising the awareness of the human resources directorates on the issue of family carers within the company. Indeed, it is fundamental that a caring relative is not seen under the sole prism of the exhausted professional, who could potentially be less operational or available, but rather as the expression of a societal problem that concerns us or will concern us all and which, I am convinced, deserves a much wider collective reflection integrating the forecasts of demographic changes and the necessary adaptation of our society. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the UAI group]] The REM Group would like to propose, by way of amendment, that this scheme should also be extended to carers of family members with disabilities. Because we are sensitive and attentive to the situation of caregivers, we support this bill, which opens a new way to expand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u31	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of budgetary restrictions that we have seen in recent years, the commitment of caregivers to their loved ones is more important than ever. The work of the caregivers, long invisible, shows solidarity of proximity, all the more important as it responds to real public health issues. Because it aims to support this increasingly well-recognized work, Members of the Republican Group welcome the bill tabled by our colleague Paul Christophe. We welcome this for reasons falling within three different categories: firstly, from a pragmatic point of view, on the concrete needs to be met by caregivers; Second, from a philosophical point of view; Third, and finally, from a more general point of view, taking into account the need to rethink how we design our health care system. First of all, I come to the pragmatic reasons. The possibility for employees to give their colleague, under certain conditions, days off, reminds us of one fundamental thing: the consideration given to carers in our country is not satisfactory, even though more and more of our compatriots are concerned. France is indeed engaged – like all European countries – in a process of demographic transition marked by a significant and continuous growth of the highest age groups, as well as by an increase in the longevity of the French. There are now 15 million people aged 60 and over; 20 million in 2030 and nearly 24 million in 2060. As a result, more and more French people are facing the dependency of a family member. It is thus almost 8.3 million people who pay attention and provide care to one of their loved ones on a daily basis; Almost half of them, or 4 million caregivers, try to reconcile this – and not without difficulties – task with their professional lives. According to figures from the Caregiver Company, 12 million people in France are reported to be affected by disability, and nearly 15 million are reported to be affected by chronic illness; This makes at least as many families affected by the loss of autonomy of one of their loved ones – and thus by the loss of their own autonomy, something that we often tend to forget. The solidarity shown by these carers must be further supported and recognised by society, in particular by the measures contained in this text, which aims to enable employees of a company to give a colleague days off, so that he can stay longer with a family member who is disabled, sick or elderly. According to a national study carried out at the initiative of the association France Alzheimer in 2016, 90% of assisting employees report stress, anxiety, fatigue and psychological disorders, while 72% of them consider that accompanying their loved ones has a negative impact on their concentration and effectiveness at work. This impact is all the more negative since, of course, all the other activities of their lives as employees and parents are added to this role as a caregiver. This is how many baby boomers are confronted with an exhausting multiplicity of tasks and duties. This generation is struggling to find time for it, especially as retirement moves away. This phenomenon is also expected to increase as the population ages and the retirement age declines; This is why the Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing tended to facilitate the lives of assisting workers, in particular by introducing a three-month, renewable care leave. This text is in line with this: it is a good thing. By opening a legislative discussion on the role of carers in our society, it must enable us to make more visible the work done by carers, as well as the rights that have already been opened to them by the legislator. According to a study published by the FIFG last September, if an overwhelming majority of French people feel very legitimate to take on this role of helping their loved ones, they do not always feel able to do so: one in two people feel that they do not have the necessary abilities. This lack of information and training reveals one thing that we all need to be aware of: our country needs a cultural shift. It is necessary to reconnect with a culture of proximity, by fostering the concrete bonds of solidarity that some believed to be incompatible with modernity. I turn here to the philosophical reasons behind our group's support for this bill. By putting the helper back at the centre of our legislative exchanges, we are working to recognize the close ties that give society its overall cohesion. It is a true philosophy, a vision for the future of our country that we formulate in this way. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what does this notion of helping mean? We do not defend here a sum of technical measures, which would simply act as a social evolution. What we are defending here is much more than that: it is an ethic of rooting, an ethic of caring for one's neighbour, towards one who – like everyone else – can be caught up in the intrinsic vulnerability of the human condition. This human vulnerability anchors each of us in a network of dependencies that, from family to business, through school or community involvement, reminds us that man is above all a social animal to whom must be equipped spaces of gift, free of charge, self-help, in a world that is more and more rhythmic by the rhythms of society. To support caregivers, we need to engage in this cultural change, addressing barriers that prevent their numbers from growing and their commitment to thrive in the best possible conditions. As the president of the High Council for Family, Childhood and Age says, "To support active caregivers, they must be guaranteed time." In recent years, companies have become aware of this need and are making a real societal shift. A helping employee is an asset to his or her business. One does not come out of this experience unscathed: one comes out richer with knowledge, interrogations and attention to others. In the same way that companies have been able to integrate maternity into their human resources management, they will adapt and will have to continue to adapt to the increase in the number of assisting employees. The growing importance attached by the latter to the quality of life at work and to the proper articulation of private and professional life has already moved the lines: some companies are now putting in place measures to promote the care of their assisting employees, thus avoiding burnout syndromes. In order to meet the expectations of caregivers, it is therefore necessary to adapt their working and living environment. It is also necessary – this will be my last point – to take into account the care community. It is necessary to reorganise it within the framework of a society of accompaniment centered on prevention. Today, physicians and caregivers no longer have a monopoly on care: the voluntary sector, including the patient, has become a must within our health care system. Caregivers, families and relatives are also essential. Let us make sense of our society! Let's restore our place to the human, in all that it has of authentic and fragile! In France, the culture of the welfare state too often leads public services to act in the place of patients, to assist them or even to infantile them. Conversely, caregivers cooperate with the people they help: in this system, everyone acts according to their possibilities. In this way, we need to reorganize our bureaucratized health system around the values of altruism and solidarity embodied by volunteers as well as health professionals. This bill by our colleague Paul Christophe is part of a social and philosophical framework that fully corresponds to the expectations of our fellow citizens, who are anxious to see our country maintain a high level of solidarity between the generations, while taking into account contemporary difficulties in reconciling work and family life. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UAI groups]] To help is to give one's time to others, to one's loved ones. This proposal for a law to extend the scheme of gifts of days of rest not taken to family caregivers tends to support this noble approach: that is why the Republicans Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u33	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, our family ties cement our lives and our society. Faced with the loss of autonomy of their relatives, many French people decide to devote themselves, for all or part, to these dependent persons. France has 8.3 million family caregivers, of whom 4.3 million are elderly. Among these French, nearly 5 million employees help a child, spouse, relative or relative who is ill, disabled or in loss of autonomy. In the future, these situations will only increase as a result of the associated effects of increased life expectancy and population ageing. As a result, more and more elderly people or people who are losing their autonomy, more or less well taken into account by the community, will be de facto dependent on one or more of the close ones who are active. This bill aims to support these assisting employees, who are expected to represent one in four employees by 2030. These caregivers, who do a great job on a daily basis, are subject to significant personal and professional constraints. They are exposed to a clear lack of time, stress, fatigue, discouragement, guilt for miscare of their loved ones – whether they are an ascendant, a dependent elderly person, a sister, a brother, or a descendant, such as a severely ill or disabled child, or a spouse at the end of their life. As such, caregivers need to be supported in a way that is appropriate to their situation. It is necessary for our society to take this problem together by putting in place public mechanisms to relieve caregivers, as well as to facilitate their personal, social and professional lives. It is a human issue of solidarity, but also an economic issue. Indeed, these caregivers, who are physically and emotionally solicited by the support they provide to their dependent relatives, demand to remain assets integrated into the economic life of their business. But their obligations to their loved ones have significant consequences. Being a helper would be the first cause of absenteeism. This would represent up to forty days of non-productivity per year. On average, assisting employees would actually be absent for 25 days and would also present themselves for 15 days – that is, during this period, they would be forced to be present at work, but being so tired and stressed that they are not operational. The overall social cost of this reality is estimated at 20 billion euros, or 5000 to 8000 euros per year and per assisting employee. It is therefore essential to develop the financial, legal and human ecosystem to support carers, and to consider structural support measures as well as flexibility arrangements for these employees. Depriving themselves of their work and skills would be a serious collective economic error, but denying their need for accompaniment would create just as many social and human risks. Legal and regulatory arrangements have gradually been put in place: parental attendance leave, family solidarity leave, caregiving leave. The relaxation and expansion of family support leave for caregivers is a good thing; The right to specific training is equally so. Among other things, the 2015 Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing has made significant progress for caregivers of older people. That is why I welcome the bill that our colleagues in the IDU, Action and Independent Group are submitting to us today, which aims to extend the scheme of giving untaken days of rest to family caregivers, as is already possible for the parents of a seriously ill child since the 2014 law. It is not a question of setting up adjustments at the margin, but of finding concrete solutions to help these employees to better articulate their working life and their role as caregivers, thereby enabling them to flourish. Caregivers are doing a job that is essential to our living together, in order to meet the challenge of losing autonomy in a constrained fiscal environment. Caregivers often allow family members to stay at home, while promoting forms of solidarity and sociability that are more appropriate to and preferred by older people. In addition, their intervention is less costly for public finances than the use of institutions or home-based professionals. It is therefore our duty to take fully into account and minimize as much as possible the significant effects of this activity on their quality of life. Let us help them, take them into consideration in their rightful role and in their rightful place in our society! Ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, the members of the MODEM Group will vote in favour of this bill. We hope that it will be a first step towards a better integration of caregivers throughout the quinquennium. The President of the Republic has also announced several measures to accompany the carers in their commitment: first, to enable them to better train themselves or to be accompanied by incorporating into the right to training a "health/social check", proposed at the beginning of situations of dependency, then on a regular basis, psychological support may also be offered, and the training would be provided by the actors in the field – health associations and professionals – subject to certain conditions such as the signing of a charter of good practices; The next step is to take all the necessary measures to facilitate the administrative steps taken by caregivers for their elders; Finally, the aim is to enhance respite arrangements, in particular to encourage day-time reception or temporary accommodation to assist caregivers and encourage home-based relaying, also known as "baluchonning", i.e. the intervention of a third person in the home of the elderly. In line with these commitments, the Minister of Health has announced that measures will be taken in favour of carers to better take into account the burden of accompanying a family member in loss of autonomy, which we welcome. In particular, the aim is to make better use of their pension rights. Indeed, we must not forget family caregivers who decide to give up their jobs in order to devote themselves to a dependent person because, as a result, they lose the benefits associated with this job, such as the right to retirement. However, they should not be penalized by this choice. These guidelines are beneficial, they are expected by the carers and we hope that they will be implemented as soon as possible. We already welcome the action taken in the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018, which our assembly finally passed earlier this week, which aims to fully offset the increase in the CSG for family caregivers receiving disability compensation benefits. [[Applause on several benches of the REM, LR and UAI groups]] In addition, the MODEM group proposes two complementary measures which could significantly improve the situation of carers. The first is to find solutions to support caregivers financially. For them, the loss of autonomy results in expenses ranging from EUR 1000 to EUR 1500 per month, be it housing costs, home help, accommodation costs in a specialised institution, to mention just a few of the most important expenses. However, the compensation of a family caregiver is now up to 85% of the hourly SMIC on the basis of 35 hours per week, and the sums collected in this context must be reported to the tax authorities. Therefore, could we not consider revising this tax? The second measure is to ask the Government for a report on the situation of family carers, which will examine in particular the possibility of maintaining old-age insurance coverage for parents caring for a disabled child over the age of 20 years. We very much hope that these two amendments can be adopted today by our House. In addition to the measure proposed by our colleagues in the IDU Group, Action and Independents, we are convinced that our group's proposals are in the direction of greater justice for caregivers, which includes, and above all, the improvement of their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u35	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u36	Mr President, the Minister for Labour, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law by the IDU Group, Action and Independents which we are considering today deals with a subject which may concern each and every one of us: the assistance to family caregivers, those relatives who, every day, look after an elderly or disabled person, whether they are their parents, spouses, children or other members of their families. In the last Handicap-Santé survey conducted in 2008 by DREES – the Ministry of Health's Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – there were 8 million people in France who assisted elderly, disabled or chronically ill relatives on a daily basis. The associations estimate that there would now be between 11 and 13 million family caregivers for disabled or elderly people; Over the last 20 years, their number has increased steadily. It is in this context that the law of 9 May 2014 known as the "Mathys Law", based on solidarity practices in some companies, allowed the donation of rest days to a parent of a seriously ill or disabled child. At the origin of this law is the story of a father who, when faced with his son's cancer in 2009, benefited from the donation of 170 days off from his co-workers. The scheme adopted in May 2014 introduced this possibility into the law by allowing an employee to give up all or part of his days of rest for the benefit of a colleague who is the parent of a child seriously ill, disabled or victim of an accident. At the same time, the Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing has created a carer's leave which allows an employee to temporarily leave his or her working life to look after a relative in a situation of loss of autonomy or serious disability. We can see that legislation has recently progressed on the issue of carers, but the task is still great. That is why the President of the Republic has made assistance to caregivers who care for persons with disabilities or the elderly a priority. During the presidential campaign, he put the idea that disability must be at the centre of our public policies, that the accompaniment of dependency must be strengthened. Members of the La République on the move have these concerns at their heart every day. The finance bill for 2018 that we are currently considering in the Assembly thus foresees a historic increase in the adult disability allowance. In addition, a "flash mission" on the issue of family caregivers will soon be launched. It will make it possible to formulate proposals so that they are better recognized and their living conditions improved: in particular, it will help them to maintain a working life while strengthening their right to retirement and respite. That is why Mr Paul Christophe's proposal for a law aimed at extending the donation of days between employees to the relatives of a person who is in a loss of autonomy can only be welcomed and welcomed by the deputies of the majority group. The donation of days provided for by the "Mathys" law concerns only children and young people under the age of 20; It does not understand the stakes of the ageing of the population and its consequences for the organisation of the daily lives of families. Today in France, children, spouses and relatives of the elderly are on the front line to face the challenge of dependency. This is a situation in which we do not have the right to remain silent. However, as we prepare to rule on the donation of days to caregivers caring for people who are losing their autonomy, we must be aware that the adoption of this bill as it stands could create a gap in existing law. It would lead to the co-existence of the donation of days for caregivers of an elderly person with the donation of days for the parents of a seriously ill or disabled child, without specifying that this new donation of days should also be applicable to caregivers of a disabled person. The problem of adults with disabilities cannot be avoided in this way. Every day, in our ridings, sometimes in our families, we face relatives of adults with disabilities who find themselves in difficulty or even in distress. Public policies have for too long misunderstood the question of the transition to adulthood of persons with disabilities and its consequences for their families. The priority of this quinquennium is also to provide them with an answer. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will be defending an amendment that I have proposed to ensure that this bill also extends the donation of days between employees to carers of disabled people. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, UAI and LR groups]] I therefore welcome the opening of our debates, which will, I hope, make it possible to enrich this bill, which the French are very much looking forward to.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u37	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate and thank Paul Christophe for having made this idea of extending the arrangements for giving days of rest and for the work done. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] This bill is another step towards the realization of the recognition of consecrated caregivers, as many previous speakers have recalled, by the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing of December 2015. This law has for the first time defined the role of carers, but it has not been so far as to give them a real status. It has also recognized the right of caregivers to respite, which is an important step forward for me, but which remains very difficult to implement. All reports show this: the situation of the carers remains alarming and the heavy burden on them directly impacts them. By allowing family caregivers, the parents of a seriously ill child, to lighten their working time somewhat without having to suffer any loss of wages, this bill brings a solution, it is another link in the immense work that we still have to do. With the whole group The Republicans, I want to encourage this movement. We will support and vote on this bill. We will first support her because she creates a bond of brotherhood. And it is the fraternity – we could also talk about solidarity – that guides the person who chooses to help his or her loved one who is sick or in a situation of loss of autonomy. But this fraternity is not without its counterpart: it must be accompanied by the support of our society to the caregivers! By helping their parents to age in better conditions, they often tend to isolate themselves, because they arrange their working hours according to the needs of their loved ones and this daily mission is a heavy burden. We will support this proposal, I said, because it helps to rebalance fraternity, this solidarity that allows the caregiver to stay with her close relative thanks to the support of her fellow workers. We will also support it because, my dear fellow Member, you are proposing a pragmatic solution to a situation, that of the close helper, which I am sure will concern more and more people in the years to come. But we know that your bill can only be a partial solution: it must be an opportunity for the Government and for our assembly to reflect on deeper, more appropriate solutions. The report on the application of the law on the adaptation of society to ageing issued last Tuesday by our colleagues Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and Charlotte Lecocq shows us, if necessary, how difficult we are still to deal with the dependency of our seniors. The right of caregivers to respite, which is now enshrined in the above-mentioned Act, encounters many difficulties in establishing themselves due to the lack of solutions for the reception or care of patients during the exercise of this right, in particular because of the lack of adequate temporary beds or, where beds exist, because of the embolisation of the system by persons in emergency situations, the temporary reception becoming permanent. However, I note, Madam Minister, the registration of 1500 temporary beds in the 2018 PLFSS, and I support this decision, such as the decision to launch the creation of 4,500 beds in residential care for dependent seniors. But we must continue this effort and consider new bed creations to accommodate those in need in areas where the pressure is greatest. I hear, minister, that the request is not the same everywhere and that some EHPADs are not filling up. It will therefore be necessary to carry out a very fine analysis of the situation, and then to imagine the most innovative solutions to develop the reception of the elderly. I am thinking in particular of expanding the missions of the EHPADs and their transformation into reception platforms adaptable to all situations, and of course also to family reception, even though I know all the limits, as well as of the development of home care for people with adapted day and night services. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UAI groups and on some benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Note colleague Alain Ramadier reminded us a few moments ago: carers suffer from fatigue, psychological difficulties, lack of accompaniment, but also from deterioration of their physical health. We have a duty to translate the perspectives of the law on the adaptation of society to ageing into concrete action for them. We have a duty to accompany them. I consider this bill to be a response to the problem of accompanying dependents. From these various texts, a legal framework will emerge which will finally allow caregivers to reconcile work, family life and, more specifically, family constraints. The Republican Group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u39	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u40	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good initiative, one that we are happy to vote for, support and defend loudly! One of the ones that we are glad to see is that it is carried by Members of Parliament of different tendencies; one of those that goes in the right direction, that is true and that meets the needs of the French. Indeed, as has been rightly pointed out, our population is ageing: if 15 million French are now more than 60 years old, they will be 20 million in 2030 and 24 million in 2060. It is therefore urgent to provide concrete answers in order to prepare their future, our future. Active caregivers generously accompany people who are, for many, highly dependent. These courageous people represent, on average, one in six employees in companies. This phenomenon is expected to increase: according to demographic projections, in ten years they will represent one in four employees. From the company's point of view, this is not without consequences. Human resources managers see this on a daily basis: absenteeism, decreased performance and weakened health are unfortunately the consequences of an organization of work that is still inadequate for active caregivers. The figures speak for themselves: as an example, an active caregiver absents an average of 16 days more than another employee and, according to a study carried out by the association France Alzheimer, 79% of the assisting employees complain of a great difficulty in combining their working lives and their daily engagement with their families. And that's not all: more than 90% of these employees explain that they are subject to high levels of stress, anxiety, fatigue and psychological disorders. In the past, our assembly has long been deaf to listening to these active caregivers. Prior to 2015, family support leave allowed them to stop working – without pay – for a period of three months, renewable for one year. The Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing, which was subsequently relaxed by the Act of 8 August 2016 on labour, the modernization of social dialogue and the securing of professional paths, known as the Labour Law, marked a new step forward. In 2017, a new step was taken with the coming into force of the Caregiver Leave. These measures should enable all those who so wish to help their father, mother, son, daughter, wife or husband. And yet, only 2% of assisting employees feel accompanied by their company. Sometimes they even feel they are victims of some form of discrimination. Today, it is possible to go further, and this is a good thing, for I believe, as Professor Jérôme Lejeune said, that "the dignity of a civilization is measured by the respect it brings to the weakest of its members". To help the weakest, it is naturally necessary to start with those who support them on a daily basis and who are examples for each of us. A few days ago, we legislated, in the framework of the bill ratifying various orders made on the basis of Act No.2017-1340 of 15 September 2017 empowering to take measures to strengthen social dialogue, on telework. I regret that the majority have been deaf to the improvements proposed by a number of us. With my colleague Michel Castellani, on this occasion we tried to make it clear how important it was that people using telework should enjoy the same working conditions as other employees. Unfortunately, our proposals have been swept away by the Government, even though they would have been very helpful to the active caregivers we are defending today. A blasphemy, though. By extending the scheme of giving leave days to caregivers with an elderly person, this bill goes, I repeat, in the right direction. However, we will not be able to ignore a real reflection on the ageing of the population. All successive governments promised to do so, but each time they met with economic reality and took only piecemeal action. One day we will have to look at this reality in the face, even if, I concede to you, it is easier to say than to do. The main point is that this bill, which I thank you, Mr rapporteur, is a real step forward. Of course, I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u42	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there are 11 million family caregivers in France, French and French people who work every day to accompany a close relative, spouse and child who is losing their autonomy. We all know one person who takes on this role. Here, some of us are personally experiencing this situation. This reality is therefore experienced by many French people, and we are unanimous in welcoming the important social contribution of these 11 million caregivers: they are indeed doing a great and useful work on a daily basis, complementary to the mechanisms of national solidarity. This work allows many French women and many French women to live in a less difficult way their loss of autonomy. Family caregivers invest on a daily basis, most often in parallel with a personal and professional life that can suffer from the time, energy and availability required by their role. Many of them work: some studies show that 15% of the employed are family caregivers. And the fact is clear: 60% of caregivers report having difficulty reconciling their work and their role as caregivers. Despite the tremendous work they do on a daily basis, and the consensus on the obvious difficulties in reconciling this caregiving activity with a personal and professional life, caregivers today lack social, legal and political recognition. I would therefore like to welcome this parliamentary initiative, which comes a few weeks after the National Caregivers' Day of 6 October, which highlighted the progress we must make in their recognition and support. It is all the more important to act as the ageing of the population and the increase in life expectancy will amplify the phenomenon. That is why, for several years now, our Assembly has adopted a number of measures which have led to positive and substantial progress. In particular, I am thinking of the legal definition of close care givers, the introduction of a right of respite, the creation of family solidarity leave and caregiving leave, which allow for the suspension of professional working time for the benefit of domestic working time, or the donation of rest days to an employee who is the parent of a seriously ill child, as permitted by the law of 9 May 2014. The bill we are debating proposes to expand the scheme introduced by this law of 9 May 2014 to include family caregivers. Given the shared recognition of the difficulties experienced by family caregivers, it is of course in the right direction. Indeed, it will allow caregivers to free up time for their caregiving activity without financial impact for them, thanks to the virtuous mechanism of giving. But it is also a measure that will directly contribute, even if it is less obvious at first, to promoting equality between women and men, and in the first place because women are the first to be involved. The majority of caregivers are caregivers, women: 60 to 75 per cent according to studies. They also account for a significant proportion of the isolated elderly, as a result of longer life expectancy and greater financial difficulties in financing this dependency because of their lower wage levels when they were in employment. But above all, this bill is part of this great cause because women are the first to be affected, in their working lives, by their status as caregivers. Women are more likely to opt for a break in employment or a reduction in working time than men: this is due in particular to the fact that the leave arrangements that exist today – and which are not intended to call into question the merits here – are more encouraging for women than for men to use them. In fact, family solidarity and caring leave, which now allows caregivers to free up time, are not paid. As a result, as a result of the wage gap that remains today, women are more likely to use it than men. Given the difficult situation of the carers and the need to create facilitating mechanisms for these women and men who are involved on a daily basis, and because I am convinced that this is also an opportunity to make progress in the fight that is ours, that of our great national cause, equality between women and men, I support and will vote for this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and UAI groups]] It marks a new stage which, I think, must call for others and open, in a broader way, the debate on the recognition and accompaniment of family caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u44	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the situation of family caregivers is far from satisfactory. As our colleagues have already explained, one in five employees is helping. However, we know that the French population is ageing. Are we prepared to understand this aging at best and to accompany those who help the elderly, often with a lot of self-denial? This bill comes, through the donation of days off between colleagues, to lay a foundation stone in favour of both family caregivers and their recognition. Caregivers must be able to devote time to the person to whom they are helping, but also to themselves. It is very common for family caregivers to suffer from professional and mental exhaustion. The donation of days off to help a family-helping colleague is a proof of generosity that we must encourage. Although it is not necessarily a lasting solution, this bill allows us to improve the existing system. That is why I thank the IDU, Action and Independent Group for putting this bill on the agenda: the helpers must indeed require our full attention, because their status is not satisfactory. We have to work more for them: we owe it to them. They encourage the keeping at home of their dependent relatives. This must, however, be done in the best possible way, for the person who is dependent or in loss of autonomy as well as for the caregiver. In addition, places in EHPAD or in reception facilities can sometimes be very long to obtain. If, therefore, being a caregiver is not necessarily a choice, caregivers show a great deal of generosity and self-denial: we must therefore lighten their daily lives. Making it easier and more widespread to donate days of leave between colleagues will relieve the stress of family caregivers, who have to work two jobs in the same day: their own profession and helping the dependent or losing self-reliance. It is therefore essential for them to make themselves available at all times. Making it possible to give anonymous leave days in order to allow a co-worker to better experience this difficult situation is therefore more than welcome. Yesterday I accompanied Mrs Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, on a trip to my constituency dedicated to the visit of a public gerontological institution, which has not only a wing housing an EHPAD, but also a respite platform for family caregivers. This platform is both physical, digital and telephone. It provides counselling and support to family caregivers: it is in fact a real support service for those in care of a loved one suffering from neurodegenerative disease. It offers a home or EHPAD interview with a nurse, aimed at gathering the needs and expectations of both the caregiver and the dependent. Together, they set up a personalized accompanying programme, in conjunction with the various partners of the institution. Appropriate activities and psychological support are then proposed. Caregivers are guided in their administrative procedures and the staff of the institution help them to better understand the disease; It thus allows home care, which is the best solution for both the dependent and the caregiver. These services related to accompaniment, support, information and respite activities are free of charge. Finally, caregivers are also offered the possibility of "baluching" or relaying, i.e. replacement of the caregiver at home on an ongoing basis. This type of organization must be generalized and promoted in order, once again, to relieve caregivers. As the Minister of Solidarity and Health has told us, this relay will now be possible thanks to the bill for a state in the service of a society of trust. In this context, an experiment will be set up for three years. It will make it possible to use a voluntary employee to provide support for the caregiver at home, over a period of several consecutive days. The donation of unused leave days and this type of platform are good ways to relieve caregivers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and UAI groups]] That is why I will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u46	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u47	Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your comments and support for this bill, and even more so for your support for the helpers' cause. You have understood that, through this text, I am aiming at several objectives. The first is to meet a demand and secure a device already used in some companies. The second is to highlight the cause of caregivers; I think you've all contributed to it. The third is to start the discussion on other proposals – I extend my hand to the colleague who will lead the "flash mission" on family caregivers. This could be the improvement of the leave for caregivers, by extending its duration, its splitness and even its compensation. It could also be, Mr Bricout, the extension of the retirement rights of carers, which is the subject of another bill that I have tabled; In view of the work undertaken by the Government, I believe that we will be able to discuss it in the near future. It could be, at last, other subjects that we would like to consider together. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM,LR and UAI groups]] The final objective is to bring us together on the issue of caregivers. I believe that this objective has been achieved, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u48	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u49	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 10, which would delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the diagnosis and intentions of this bill are good. It is thought that, of course, family caregivers deserve additional days off. However, quite quickly, a question arises: why do our colleagues propose this provision, whereas the law already provides for additional days of leave for family caregivers? Article L. 3142-16 of the Labour Code states that the employer must grant additional days of rest to the dependants of a dependent person. The scheme introduced by Article 1e would, at best, complement the existing system, at worst, be a way for the employer to defeat the solidarity of the employees, rather than grant leave to the assisting employee. In this case, not only would there be a decline in the rights of family caregivers, but the assisting employee would also be placed in a very difficult situation with respect to his or her colleagues. Moreover, the confidentiality of his caregiving activity would not be respected, since it would become known to the public that he is the person to whom rest days can be given. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] The idea is therefore good, but the scheme introduces a potential social regression. That is why we oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u51	It's really systematic opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u52	If our colleagues have, in good faith, forgotten to add protection against the situations I have just mentioned, we propose that you adopt Amendment No 11, which will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u53	What is the committee's opinion on this deletion amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u54	Unsurprisingly, I am against this amendment, which is based on assumptions that I cannot share. The scheme is based on solidarity between employees. It would be regulated legally, both as regards its effects on the rights of the employee and as regards the days that may be the subject of the donation. It is in the best interests of adopting this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u56	Mr President, you would like to delete the provision that makes it possible to organise the donation of days of leave between employees, because you believe that this would be a way for the employer to "defeat the solidarity of employees". I do not share this view, and that is why I am against your amendment. I would like to clarify a number of points. According to a survey presented last October by the Adhap Services network, which provides home helpers, caregivers estimate that their role has an impact on their daily lives at 54%, their social lives at 48% and their working lives at 45%. This is consistent with the observations made on all benches. In 2014, the Observatory on Corporate Social Responsibility was already interested in the situation of 8.3 million family caregivers, who are on average 52 years old, half of whom are in work and 57% of women. A quarter of them spend seven to twenty hours a week helping their loved ones, which means that many of them have to adjust their professional activity. Three-quarters report having been absent from work in the last twelve months, apart from paid leave and in addition to their leave entitlements, because of their role as caregivers. At the same time, most wish to preserve their professional activity, for financial reasons as well as personal development and professional career. The mechanism under discussion is not intended, contrary to what you seem to say, Mr. Member, to replace, but to supplement, by de facto extending, or to encourage the use of, the right to care leave by allowing for the maintenance of remuneration. There is no provision for the assisting employee to "quemander," if I may say so, days off with his or her colleagues. The right to caregiving leave remains a public policy provision, which is enforceable against the employer. In addition, it would be a voluntary, anonymous and non-compensatory donation. In practice, for the implementation of the grant of sick child leave, which served as a model for this provision, it is not only employees who can make a donation; the company can also abound the leave fund – a number have done so. There are also business agreements on the subject. The existence of such a right of leave would allow caregivers to breathe a little, without taking the risk of losing their jobs. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the UAI, REM and MODEM groups]] This bill legally secures the system and encourages solidarity. It thus reflects one of the three great values of our Republic: fraternity. That is why I call on all of you to adopt it and to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u57	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u58	[["Yes! »on the benches of the UAI group]] My dear colleague, this amendment is purely and simply shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u60	If solidarity in a society is only the one that has to go from top to bottom, it is a strange society that you want to create.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI, REM and MODEM groups]] You would honour yourself to withdraw your amendment immediately!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u64	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u65	It seems to me that this amendment falls next door. This bill is a starting point, not a point of arrival! This has been said, in particular by the rapporteur: the great issue of aid to carers includes others, on which we will have to work in the future. It is therefore necessary to support this text, which strengthens solidarity within the company and complements the existing system. I do not understand the meaning of this amendment. I believe that our friends of unsuspecting France commit, through him, a damaging countersense. We will not support him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u66	I have before me an amendment No 6, which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 18 and 16. The rapporteur has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u67	This is an editorial amendment, which tends to exempt the Government from issuing a decree to clarify the criteria for assessing the particular gravity of the loss of autonomy of the person in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u68	I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u69	I have just indicated our position on your bill and its philosophy, but I would like to return to it for a moment. By allowing the donation of days of rest and paid leave, it is suggested that this would be a right that could be given. However, leave is a right guaranteed by the Labour Code and it is, in a way, a question of questioning it, allowing an employee to give up his or her fifth week of paid leave. We are, for our part, so that all employees can take their paid leave. This is beneficial both from a social and an economic point of view for businesses. This horizontal solidarity can also have unhealthy effects on labour relations. We would prefer collective and mutual solidarity, which could involve the upgrading of caregiving leave. Adopting the bill without affecting existing mechanisms, with their shortcomings, may increase a number of problems in companies and society. It is also a question of questioning the right to rest, which is a constitutional requirement under the eleventh paragraph of the Preamble to the 1946 Constitution, according to which the nation "guarantees to all... the protection of health, material security, rest and leisure". The right to rest should not be optional. Finally, we are moving away from the objectives of reducing the working time needed to have more time for leisure or family. By this sub-amendment, we propose to limit the number of days of rest only to days of reduction of working time – RTT – and of recovery, and to leave the five weeks of paid leave in its state. It was also a commitment of Emmanuel Macron, who had stated in his program: "We will allow the donation of RTT between colleagues for the helpers in the companies. This was the formula used. The gift of paid leave was therefore not scheduled. This is a contradiction that might lead you to amend the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u70	I call Mr Thomas Mesnier to support sub-amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u71	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to clarify the rapporteur's amendment inserting the new leave donation into the carer's carer's leave scheme, with a view to ensuring that it is applied to caregivers of caregivers with disabilities. This bill creates a donation of days for the dependants of a person suffering from a loss of autonomy of particular gravity, drawing on both the arrangement for giving days of rest created by the Mathys Act and the arrangement for caring leave established by the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing of 2015. Improving the rights, inclusion and support of people with disabilities is a priority of this quinquennium. During the presidential and legislative election campaigns, we committed ourselves to finding concrete solutions to improve the daily lives of caregivers, whether they care for the elderly or persons with disabilities. This bill is a first step. It is essential for the Republic on the move to ensure that it reflects the diversity of situations of caregivers. The explicit inclusion of persons with disabilities as assisted persons in the scheme would ensure that employees assisting family members with disabilities could benefit from the grant of leave days, as would employees assisting a dependent relative. This would, in particular, ensure that caregivers caring for adults with disabilities, who are not currently covered by the Mathys Act, would benefit from the new scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u72	What is the Committee's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u73	Mr Dharréville, your sub-amendment tends to exclude the fifth week of paid leave from giving leave. I'm unfavorable for two reasons. Firstly, I disagree with the presupposition that the proposed scheme should be suspected of wanting to reduce the rights of employees. I would remind you, on the one hand, that this system is based on another which already exists and which nobody says is causing massive abuses, on the other hand, that it does not concern the links between the employer and the employee, but relations between employees. Secondly, the idea is also to allow the new scheme to be applied in companies which do not benefit from the RTTs, while respecting a minimum basis laid down by law. By moving the cursor, you restrict the number of companies in which the application of the device will be possible. As far as sub-amendment No 16 is concerned, I am in favour of its principle. It is true that the original text focused on the issue of elderly people who are losing their autonomy. The convergence of the two statutes – helping a person with a disability and helping a person with a loss of autonomy – can only go in the right direction. In short, I am in favour of sub-amendment No 16 and against sub-amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u74	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment and both sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u75	The Government is in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, subject to the adoption of Subamendment No 16, and expresses an unfavourable opinion on Subamendment No 18. By this measure, there is no question of endangering the health of the employee who will give days off, nor of calling into question his right to rest. The latter is a fundamental right, protected by the Constitution and conventions of all kinds. However, the 2003 European Working Time Directive requires a minimum period of four weeks of paid leave. This is why agreements on this subject sometimes allow for the donation of paid leave from the fifth week. However, other agreements cap this donation annually or provide that it is only possible beyond five weeks. In this respect, I believe that we can trust the social dialogue and the trade union organisations, which in general propose the agreements on the subject: the approach comes from the employees rather than the employer. In any event, I would remind you that this is a completely voluntary gift and that the freedom of the individual remains full and complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u76	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u77	Subamendment No 16 is obviously full of good feelings, and I will vote for it. The text first focused on the elderly, and here it is proposed to put it on persons with disabilities, by the fact that they too are often dependent. Very well, but, as soon as the list is opened, why not include people with a long-term condition, for example? How can we be against such an amendment, so full of good feelings? I will, of course, vote on it, even if it does not make much sense, because it unnecessarily opens a door: as it stands, the text is enough for itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u78	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u79	I have heard your answer, Mr rapporteur, but it is a word that I have neither used nor, I believe, implied: that of "abuse". On the underlying problem that we are talking about, I did not use the argument that you are lending me, even in an implied way, I wanted to make it clear. On the other hand, I want to go further on the questions of principle. I understand your intentions, but without questioning their laudable character, I point out the limits. Asking employees to give up their fifth week of paid leave to help people who have lost their autonomy would be a social decline. This is not what you are proposing, of course, but it is clear that, if you push your logic to the end, it is not suited to the challenge of aging and loss of autonomy. That is what, in my view, is critical. So, taken in isolation, I have some problems with the provision you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u80	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u81	The possibility given to employees to give up days of rest not taken for the benefit of another employee in a particular personal situation of particular gravity is a great step forward, as it will strengthen solidarity between employees. This amendment proposes to give the employee who has benefited from the solidarity of his colleagues to return later all or part of the days given to the generous donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u83	The gift proposed here is to transfer a right from one person to another. If I understand your amendment, Mrs Ramassamy, you would like this transfer to be reversible in case the days of leave are not taken by the beneficiary, to whom they belong. I fear a perverse effect to such an extent, which suggests that the donor has a right of control over the beneficiary's use of the given days. One might think that, if the colleague chose to give his days, he felt that the helper really needed them. Finally, the reversibility of the gift would call into question the principle of anonymity. The opinion is therefore unfavourable, and I suggest that we withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u84	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u85	The same opinion: the proposal for a law, in its very principle, is based on anonymous and free donation. What you are proposing, honourable Member, would require the creation of a kind of bank for days off in order to ensure, if I may say so, heritage management, which is contrary to the objectives pursued. In addition, such a provision would create inequality between the donor employees – since it would be necessary to choose those to whom one renders the given days – and, by questioning the anonymity of the donation, could break or destabilize the momentum of solidarity created in the company. In addition, the case would probably occur only rarely, given the need for respite.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u86	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u87	I am obviously not looking for any perverse effect: it is only a question of making restitution possible for the benefit of a person who would need it. However, you speak of anonymity: does the beneficiary not know the identity of the donors?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u88	No, not necessarily.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u89	In this case, it cannot carry out the restitution that I propose, it is obvious. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u90	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u91	The issue of caregivers requires substantive treatment; It also arises in public services where, unless I am mistaken, the scales do not take it into account in the case of a transfer. This will have to be addressed in the future. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that the scheme can only be triggered in addition to the leave provided for in Article L. 3142-16, i.e. a posteriori. We could also agree with Mr Dharréville's sub-amendment No 18. Is it not possible, in fact, for the employer to be in solidarity with its employees and to offer the caregiver paid days of leave in addition to the five weeks provided for?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u93	We have already had this debate in committee. Two things must be distinguished. In the first place, the conditions of appointment of the day of leave must, in the interests of consistency of our law, be close to those laid down for the leave of close care; This is the subject of the editorial amendment that I have defended. However, this does not mean, on the other hand, that the day of rest should be transformed into a subsidiary mechanism that would complement the caregiving leave: it would be counterproductive. As you know, this leave is neither paid nor compensated, whereas the days of leave given by a colleague are entitled to remuneration. Let the carers choose what is best for them. One can very well imagine that in some situations they want to first use their paid leave, including when it is given by colleagues, in order not to lose pay. Here again, let us trust a system based on solidarity between employees. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u95	Same opinion. According to the 2014 guide of the Observatory on Corporate Social Responsibility, which I mentioned earlier, 39% of carers cite the lack of time as the main difficulty encountered. It is important, under these conditions, to allow them the possibility of choosing – or combining – an extension of their leave or financing of it by giving them leave days from their colleagues. In the scheme, everything remains open: the conditions are not fixed in advance, so that the carers can opt for what they consider most appropriate. This seems preferable to a smaller system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u96	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u97	[[Protests on a few benches of the UAI group]] To feed our debates, I want to come back to one point. If one of the employees of a small company with ten or fifteen employees is in a situation of support, a call for solidarity can be made there, for example by a colleague, for donations of days off. That is a very good feeling, and I would like to acknowledge that, Mr rapporteur. But the problem is that it can lead to a form of guilt for the employees of this company. They also have their problems, and sometimes dependent children. The measure can therefore generate somewhat unhealthy and problematic effects in industrial relations, which cannot be ignored. The desire for solidarity is there, of course, and it is expressed in different ways between employees; But this bill does not solve all the problems facing caregivers, so we should take more time to think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u98	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u99	This amendment complements the one we will be defending earlier, since we are asking for compensation for the time off. There is therefore no contradiction. Can the employer also participate in solidarity? You did not answer me on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u101	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after Article 1. Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u102	The 2015 Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing has made significant progress for caregivers of the elderly, but improvements are still needed for caregivers of persons with disabilities. The disability compensation benefit – PCH –, like most benefits and allowances paid to persons with disabilities, is not taxable, while the amounts collected as compensation by family caregivers under the PCH are taxable. This tax therefore lowers the already low level of compensation for family caregivers of persons with disabilities. This position of the tax administration seems to us to be contrary to the spirit of the Act of 11 February 2005, which recognizes the important role of family caregivers for persons with disabilities. In this sense, it is proposed that the amounts paid as compensation to family caregivers of persons with disabilities through this benefit be exempt from income tax, as is the compensation benefit itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u105	This amendment raises the very interesting question of taxing the sums paid to carers; However, I would like to include it in a broader debate, also extended to social levies. I would therefore be more in favour of a request for a report, such as that which you will make with your amendment No 2. In order not to anticipate this work, I suggest that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u107	Same opinion. All our discussions this morning show the importance that the subject, which is a true social one, has in our eyes. But the proposal for a law is not intended to solve all the problems faced by carers: it is a starting point, as the rapporteur said, not an end line. A "patchwork" of measurements would not be readable. Today, you are given the opportunity to mark an important point with leave donations. A great deal of work and reports will soon be published. It is clear that we will again address the issue of caregivers. I ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u108	Mrs Elimas, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u109	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u110	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u111	Caregiver leave is a first step towards taking account of changes in society. However, the unpaid nature of this leave makes it a heavy financial waiver and introduces inequality among family caregivers. We would therefore like to call on the solidarity of employers to allow compensation for this leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u113	Indemnification of care leave by employers is the wrong fight. It is society as a whole and not the company that benefits from the work of the caregivers, especially the community that saves itself from the financing of staff at home or in an institution. I therefore find it inappropriate to base this financing on companies. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u115	This law deals with the voluntary donation of days of leave by an employee to an employee. I do not understand the logic that would require the employer to contribute twice to the payment of leave, that of the donor and that of the recipient, and that this double burden would be linked to reasons that are privacy-related, for which the employer has no responsibility. On the other hand, the employer may decide to contribute, on its own initiative or by agreement with the social partners. This is the case with the agreement signed by Saint-Maclou in July 2015, which provides that the company abounds the holiday funds. But this must remain a voluntary approach. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u116	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u117	We wish to remove the possibility of defining the terms of care leave by company agreement, introduced by Article L. 3142-26 of the Labour Code. In fact, the company agreement is particularly ill-suited to the regulation of close care leave. In companies with less than 20 employees, where the business referendum is made possible by labour orders, the potentially minority position of family carers among employees may lead to the conclusion of an agreement which is not favourable to their situation. Secondly, if we consider that the question of family caregivers is a matter for the whole nation, it seems highly questionable that each company can decide how to take this issue into account by adapting the leave to its needs. The loss of autonomy that affects more and more people as the population ages makes helping a loved one a public health issue. It is not for a company to define its own modalities of taking into account a public health issue, but rather for the Republic. Helping a loved one does not have to be a professional sacrifice. Everyone must be accommodated in the same house in the face of this major challenge of the century, and public order alone should be empowered to define its management.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u119	This bill aims to take a first step in favour of the situation of family caregivers. As I pointed out in committee, you are trying, with this amendment, to "play the game again" on the relevance of corporate agreements. It does not seem to me that this is the subject, especially since, with regard to caring leave, the problem is not at the conventional level. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u120	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and UAI groups]] Allow me, honourable Member, to express my astonishment, not to say more! We have debated enough on the law to strengthen social dialogue so that I know your opposition to the principle of decentralized social dialogue in the company. That you do not trust the dialogue between the employer and the trade union organisations in the company, is a fact, but that you thought that the trade union organisations could sign with the employer provisions unfavourable to the carers on a subject such as solidarity between employees, the arms fall to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u122	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and UAI groups]] The text deals with a subject of society that makes consensus, and calls for fraternity and solidarity. For some time now, however, we have been slipping into a false debate, where we are talking about social regression, unhealthy induced effects and social dialogue. To consider that it is impossible to discuss this subject within the company, in a form of proximity, is not to trust the actors on the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u124	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u125	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Same movements]] I am speaking again on one of your amendments to say that you are against social dialogue, against trade unions! You only believe in one thing, what falls from above. But all the companies that tried to build themselves on this model have exploded, collapsed. That is the inspiration of Amendment No 12!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u126	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u127	I have before me two amendments, Nos 8 and 2, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u128	Our discussions have shown that this bill alone cannot be enough. There is probably a need to strike a balance between the role of public authorities and what can be called for by solidarity between employees. The opening remarks highlighted how much the caregivers asked to be recognized by society. A bill drafted by you, Mr. Rapporteur, aims to improve the retirement rights of caregivers. It is the meaning of this amendment that provides for the submission of a report on this issue. Once again, it is a matter of striking a balance between the action of the public authorities and the call for individual solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u129	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u130	At the age of twenty of the disabled child, the assisting parent is no longer affiliated with old age insurance, by decision of the Departmental House of Disabled Persons – CDMH. In addition to the lack of recognition of society, there is social injustice. This seems to us to be contrary to the spirit of the law of 11 February 2005. This amendment provides that the old-age insurance coverage of assisting parents of a disabled child over the age of 20 is maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u131	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u132	I am not against the proposals that deal with the retirement of caregivers. As you pointed out, Mr Bricout, I have tabled a bill to this effect, co-signed by a member of your group. However, your request for a report is satisfied by the announcements made by the Minister for Solidarity and Health, who wishes to put a number of devices under consideration, and by the "flash mission" entrusted to our colleague Dharréville. Unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 8. On the other hand, I am in favour of substantive work, proposed by Amendment No 2, on the taxation of the PCH paid to carers, as well as on the old-age insurance rights available to parents of disabled children over the age of 20. We need to find the right cursor to correct the injustices of the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u134	These proposals form part of a large-scale project to support caregivers of older persons and persons with disabilities, which will be jointly led by the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities. The report proposed by Amendment No 2 covers all the issues and may constitute a contribution to the work of Jean-Paul Delevoye, appointed High Commissioner for Pension Reform. I'm in favour of it. I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 8, which will be satisfied by the adoption of Amendment No 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u135	I call Mr Guy Bricout to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u136	The 2015 law on the adaptation of society to ageing has made significant progress, which unfortunately remains insufficient. I agree with my colleagues: the call for solidarity among employees can be debated. If solidarity is not exercised in the company, the person who appealed may be placed in an unpleasant situation. Once again, a balance must be struck with the role of the public authorities. In the general discussion, speakers discussed the ill-being of caregivers and the isolation they sometimes feel. On the basis of a duty of solidarity, society delegates to them a function that requires not always obvious skills. The psychological, and sometimes medical, dimension of this function means that they need accompaniment and training. The purpose of the report proposed by this amendment would be to identify all that exists in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u138	As I said in presenting this text, it is necessary to explore a number of avenues, such as retirement or training. The Government has proposed a plan and I can count on you to be vigilant on this issue. Considerations may be given to other topics. It is often said that a society is measured by the place it places for the most fragile. The path is marked and I know you will be an actor on this issue. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u140	As I said in my introductory speech, I gave a mission to Dominique Gillot, Chair of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities, on support and retention in the employment of caregivers, which specifically includes the subject of training. This report will be submitted to the Government in March 2018 and communicated to Parliament. This request is therefore met. I suggest that you withdraw this amendment, especially since the report proposed in Amendment No 2 covers a fairly broad field.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u141	Do you withdraw your amendment, Mr. Bricout?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u142	I trust the minister in what action she can take on this report and I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u143	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the IUD, Act and Independent Group of the European Parliament of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u144	I have before me an amendment No 7 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 17. The rapporteur, Mr Paul Christophe, has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u145	This drafting amendment is intended to clarify the terms of the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u146	I call Mr Thomas Mesnier to support sub-amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u147	This coordination sub-amendment aims to clarify the wording of the rapporteur's amendment by drawing the consequence of the inclusion of carers of persons with disabilities among the beneficiaries of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u149	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u151	Opinion in favour of the amendment, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment, to which I am also in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u152	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u153	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] We come to the conclusion of our consideration of this bill. I will not refer again to the amendments which have just been discussed, but if this text represents a first step towards the recognition of carers, I invite you to moderate your admiration. Did Mrs Vidal not speak at the moment of a wonderful and extraordinary text? There is no doubt that it will soon become historic since, to hear the representatives of the Republic on the move, the slightest text voted here takes on a historical dimension. Let us remain modest and humble, this text is not the panacea. Let us recognize to the rapporteur Paul Christophe the merit of having opened the way. There are still many problems, from retirement to taxation. Let us keep measure in all things, let us not squander our pleasure in carrying out this first step, but let us not forget that this is only a step.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u154	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u155	Mr President, the rapporteur, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank this House for the quality of the debates which took place this morning in the Chamber, but also in committee. The role of family caregivers in our society is a concern shared by all groups. No one, moreover, contested the choice of the IDU, Act and independent group to put it on the agenda. I welcome the consensus position of our House on this bill, which represents progress, even if it is not a success – we all agree, the rapporteur will have reminded us of it himself. She's just a first step. Indeed, we cannot leave to the generosity alone, to the solidarity of proximity, the care to solve the difficulties of the family caregivers. It is also up to national solidarity, public policies, to make the necessary effort or to create favourable conditions. On the other hand, the gift of day does not solve the other problems raised – training, retirement – which will require broader reflections. That is why the committee's bureau, which has been seized of the subject by almost all the groups, decided to create a "flash mission" entrusted to Mr Dharréville, who will start his work very soon. I express my confidence in him to explore other avenues. No doubt many colleagues would like to go further, higher and stronger, but I dare not imagine that they will vote against this text, which represents a first step. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] We must move forward together to consolidate this first stone of the building. It is likely that we will one day be assisted by 577. So let's help the 577 caregivers we could be today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u156	In the explanations of vote, Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon spoke for the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u157	We have already expressed our reticence about this bill, because it seems to us that this subject deserves further thought and a more ambitious bill. We take note of this first step, but we remain vigilant. We will not vote against this text, but we regret the disproportionate and disrespectful remarks made by our colleague on the other side. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] We will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u158	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u159	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for this bill, which our group will vote with enthusiasm, because it opens the way for further work. We welcome and encourage this first step. Thank you to the IUD Group, Action and Independents for taking this initiative, thank you, Minister, for accompanying us. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs referred to the consensus agreement that we would have reached, but I regret the attitude of the Group of the European People's Party. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, UAI, REM and LR groups]] I listened carefully, ladies and gentlemen. On this subject, I do not understand that you have come to doubt the ability of employees to agree with each other and to show solidarity. That is not how I hear democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u160	Zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u161	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u162	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u163	Our group will vote unreservedly on the bill defended by Paul Christophe. I thank our colleagues for the constructive spirit they have shown during the debates, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the Chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u164	It's contagious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u165	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI, REM, MODET LR groups]] ...with the exception of our colleagues from La France insoumée. It is a pity that, on such a text, La France insoumise has turned into an insolidar and inconstructive France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u167	Mr Alain Ramadier, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u168	This text is a starting point. Reports will be made, work will be carried out. We will take part and be attentive to their realization. This proposal is not intended to be a comprehensive response to the difficulties of caregivers, but a pragmatic and proven measure. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] Our group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u169	The next speaker is Mrs Annie Vidal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u170	Our group will also vote with both hands for this text, which meets expectations and is part of our campaign commitments. It calls for other complementary measures, starting with the "flash mission". [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM,LR and UAI groups]] It recognizes the tremendous work done by caregivers who provide day-to-day care for their loved ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u171	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u172	We have the chance to enjoy a life expectancy in our country that continues to grow longer, but also to be able to age well, thanks to the many mechanisms that enable us to accompany the elderly as best we can. I pay tribute to those who show solidarity, the helpers and all those who accompany a person facing particular difficulties. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] We will vote for this great step forward which calls for solidarity within the company, but we will, however, make a slight reservation. I have confidence in the dialogue that can take place in the business community, but sometimes it can be difficult to engage, especially if it interferes with privacy. Caregivers should not feel frustrated about not having received the marks of such solidarity. We must find a balanced solution. The State must remain present in order to improve the retirement of carers, strengthen training and promote taxation. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM, MODEM, UAI and LR groups]] We will vote on this text, hoping that we can go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u173	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u174	Pierre Dharréville had to leave hastily, to his great regret, but he entrusted me with this explanation of vote. We have raised many issues in our consideration of this bill, which we believe is inoperative in the long run. It is not a question of settling the exceptional fact of a child who is ill or who would need to be accompanied over a fixed period of time. On the contrary, we enter a much longer cycle. Many employees may face this long-term situation. They will not be able to give or receive perpetually what marks the limits of this device. One cannot suggest that the problem of family caregivers will be solved with this measure of generosity. We welcome her, but she will raise other problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u175	It's not solidarity, it's charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u176	However, we want to remain positive and not exclude ourselves from this altruistic modality. On the other hand, we want to remain realistic and not accredit the idea that the case is settled. The ageing of the population is a societal fact that requires new and adapted responses, where the question of solidarity must take on another dimension. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] That is why we will abstain. Our vision must be much broader and we must quickly look for ways to respond to this situation. We have many proposals to submit to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u177	You're retrograde!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u178	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u179	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u180	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u181	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Michel Zumkeller and others to introduce a tax on transfers of professional athletes (No 248, 430).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u182	Mr Michel Zumkeller, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u183	Mr President, Madam Minister for Sport, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, this bill to tax transfers in professional sport, and in football in particular, is of particular interest to me. In the preamble, I would like to object to any "Neymar effect". I was accused of reacting to the news, but I tabled the bill in 2016, at a time when we could not imagine that Neymar would play in the French championship. After it was tabled, the bill received a significant number of co-signatures, mainly from my IAU group, which I thank for allowing me to defend this text, but also from other benches. This proves that the subject deserves a debate. My approach is based on a rather simple observation: all elected field officials participate in general assemblies of small sports clubs. As for me, I have been a Member of Parliament for 15 years. We meet very involved volunteers who tell us about their difficulties and the increasing constraints imposed on them by the federation to which the club is affiliated – the educator has to be trained more, the stadium has to be renovated, the lines of the field have to be changed: in short, everything has to change. However, in the club's budget, there is never any trace of the federation's support – I barely exaggerate. As a result, clubs had become accustomed to turning to the municipalities and departments, which provided them with financial assistance. But today, both can no longer do so. The end of the aided contracts amplifies the phenomenon, as well as the end of the parliamentary reserve which allowed us to give 3000 or 4000 euros to the small clubs to close their end of the month. Small clubs do not have the capacity to rely on local authorities, but they rely on sponsors. But given the economic activity of our country, the latter are no longer able to follow. Volunteers despair, but not for hundreds of millions of euros: for 3000 or 4000 euros that never arrive. At the same time, they turn on their television and, hearing the transfer figures – 180 million, 220 million euros – wonder why they wouldn't be able to take advantage of it a little. This is the starting point for this bill. In the report, Philippe Sarda, president of the Sports Agreement of the territory of Belfort-handball explains that not only does he not receive any subsidy from the federation, but he must pay it 18000 euros out of 25,000 under the license of its 250 members. He added that the federation used its actions in favour of disability in neighbourhoods to make it known. I'm really afraid that the amateur fabric will become impoverished, which will ultimately lead to a deterioration of the professional fabric, because our champions are from the amateur world. There is a risk of widening the gap between professional and amateur sport. We are proud to see Mbappé, but we risk being deprived of them tomorrow, because we will no longer have the capacity to train them. The bill resulted in hearings in which your department participated – thank you, minister. We also heard from professional leagues as well as small clubs. Two objections are opposed to me – I can hear them –: the first concerns the need for regulation at European level – I will come back to it –; the second alert on the risk of destroying the French professional sport – it's almost making us too much honor. That is not our will, since we appreciate sport. In view of the huge amounts of money exchanged, we simply ask for a part to be given to amateur sport. At the committee meeting, Mrs Buffet, who is a reference on these issues, pointed out very well that the same arguments were opposed to her when she wanted to create the tax on the transfer of broadcasting rights, which became Buffet tax. He was told not to, because it was going to kill professional sport. The tax was created and didn't kill anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u184	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u185	As for the other objection, our group is fundamentally European and proud to be. But in our view of Europe, it is not a matter of waiting a year, five or ten years for everyone to agree on the subject. We believe that France must be a driving force – let's go and the others will follow! I refer again to Mrs Buffet about doping. He was told that anti-doping controls could only be implemented at European level. Fortunately, she did not wait and did not keep that reasoning. Our logic is the same with this bill. We do not have the impression that we are going to kill the French professional sport – this is obviously not our wish. But we think amateur sport needs help. The President of the Republic is very active at the European level. In some cases, it seems to me, he defends the idea that France must be different from the others. On glyphosate, which Europe had decided to ban in five years' time, it believed that the ban should take place no later than three years from now. We are able to distinguish ourselves on this subject, despite the consequences, and we would not be able to do so on the issue of transfers? We are Europeans, but we are French parliamentarians; Our role is to make laws in France – with all the respect I have for Europe. This bill is not anti-European. On the contrary, we can be the light of Europe and we will serve everyone. We will exchange, not too much, since I understand that a point of order would be defended – I will tell you what I think. I thought the world had changed, but for the elders we are, it hasn't changed...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u186	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI, NG, GDR and FI groups]] We are allowed to put bills on the Orders of the Day, but we are not allowed to defend them until the end. That's how it is, it's no big deal. But don't say the world has changed, because it's not. The discussion of this bill may not come to an end because of a motion that is not justified. Three amendments – not fifty – were tabled. For three amendments, you will defend a motion of rejection. It is almost laughable as to the functioning of our assembly. It's no big deal, we're going to face this motion, we're going to challenge it and make our arguments. We're here to debate. I will be very happy to hear the different opinions. We are all elected and we are all associated with small associations. Before making your choice, think about what you'll say to the presidents of small clubs: "I voted the motion because I didn't have the courage to vote the text. When they explain to you that they lack money, you will answer them: "It's no big deal, we'll talk about it at European level in five or ten years. » [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] This is what we want you to understand: this text seeks to accompany amateur sport; it will also benefit professional sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u188	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u189	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being introduced today, which aims at taxing the largest transfers – essentially in the football community – in order to increase the funds of the National Centre for Sport Development, the CNDS, cannot, as it stands, receive the consent of the Minister of Sports whom I am.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u190	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u191	I'll explain my reasons. French professional football has not always been as flourishing. After seven years of deficit, the 2015-16 season marked a return to balance. We can congratulate ourselves on that. Thus, the operating account of the forty clubs of Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 has a surplus of 3 million euros over the last season, compared to the 67 million euros deficit last year. However, a gap continues to separate these clubs from the best market players in Europe. This is a key issue for my department, because we know that professional clubs are important providers of territorial attractiveness and employment. Although the turnover of professional football stands at 2.2 billion euros, France lags significantly compared to its European neighbours of the "Big Four" – England, Germany, Spain, Italy. This relative underdevelopment of the French market is a crucial factor in the analysis of this proposal, because we know that the real playground of our clubs is European. However, the European football market has characteristics that distinguish it from many other sectors of activity, in particular the very high mobility of capital and players. In this transnational market, the level of social and tax charges is an extremely important factor in the competitiveness of clubs, more likely than in other sectors that are less exposed to competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u192	Social dumping in sport!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u193	Intuitively, it is therefore possible to highlight a first limit of this proposal: the proposed tax would increase the cost of recruiting a player compared to what it would be for a foreign club. But it is important to go further in the analysis. You will recall that our clubs are now taking their full place in the transfer market, which exploded between 2010 and 2017, with an increase of 1.5 to 5.9 billion euros in the amount of the players' expenses for the clubs of the five major championships. This increase is due to two factors: on the one hand, the sharp increase in audiovisual rights, which led to a sharp increase in the resources of clubs; On the other hand, the arrival of new investors. Nevertheless, the geographical distribution of transfers shows a strong asymmetry between the different European championships. For 2017, France accounted for 19% of the total amount spent by clubs in the five major championships, 916 million euros, compared with 1771 for England and 1109 for Italy. As you can see, France remains behind its European counterparts in terms of spending. Moreover, these are concentrated between a few clubs. Let us not lose sight of the fact that, from now on, professional football has become a real sporting spectacle. As such, the various European championships try to capture investments to support the economic development of professional clubs. However, to attract investors...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u194	They're not investors we need, they're sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u195	... it is necessary to offer in return an important visibility and performance quality. France must therefore engage a virtuous circle to strengthen the attractiveness of the championship vis-à-vis foreign investors. For this, it is necessary to build teams whose players have real value at the international level. Football is also an ecosystem. We focus on the salaries of a minority or the amount of a transfer, but it is also and above all 1086 professional players, 43 professional clubs, 34815 people hired within the sector, a value chain of more than 7 billion euros, territories that are highlighted and benefit from the benefits. In fact, 59% of communities believe that clubs are a vehicle for economic development. These clubs are also major players in the social economy. For example, they invested nearly 73 million in support of amateur sport and carried out solidarity and social actions. This economic dynamism cannot make us forget that the results of the clubs on the international stage are not up to our expectations or theirs. Introducing a new tax would only impoverish our championships and clubs in their quest for results. Like you, I support the establishment of solidarity mechanisms between professional and amateur sport. However, the national scale that you have chosen in your proposal does not seem relevant to me. In my view, this issue should be dealt with from a European perspective because, given the governance of European football, there is little chance that our tax system will be emulated. I am therefore afraid that we will take the risk of deepening the gap between us and the best players in the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u196	That is extremely courageous. Yet, is courage not one of the values of sport?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u197	You say it yourself! I also have at my heart the development of employment and the sports economy. I understand the scope of the question that you raise. I also measure the underlying risk of widening a gap between the dynamism of sports shows and the scarcity of the resources available to local sports structures in France. But, in addition to the fact that we will manage to stabilize the means devoted to sport for all in the 2018 finance bill, I want to stress that we already have a mechanism of solidarity between professional and amateur sport. You said it was the Buffet Tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u198	We'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u199	It provides for a contribution from the organizers of sports competitions established in France. Its amount corresponds to 5% of the transfer value of the rights and its product is allocated to the National Centre for Sport Development – the CNDS. Since 1 July 2008, its scope has been extended to all television broadcasting channels – the Internet, mobile telephony – and to the broadcast of sports events or competitions in video-on-demand. In addition, there has been a mechanism for redistribution between professional and amateur sport for many years. In fact, amateur clubs are required to receive different financial compensation when one of their former players enters into a contract of employment with a professional club.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u200	And the others have nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u201	These redistribution mechanisms are included in the general regulations of the Fédération française de football or the Fédération internationale de football association, FIFA. In view of the dizzying amounts achieved by player transfers under the double impulse of the inflation of television retransmission rights and the massive arrival of non-Community patrons who have invested in certain French and European clubs, the temptation is indeed great to want to capture part of these flows to finance amateur sport and mass sport. However, as legitimate as the philosophy of this proposal may seem in the area of equity, the creation of a levy on players' transfers should only be considered, if this assumption were adopted, as part of an initiative at European Union level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u202	On the intergalactic level, even!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u203	[["Very good! » on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not wait five years. I can already confirm to you that I took the initiative to reflect on the deepening of cooperation in the field of sport with my European counterparts at the Council of Ministers of the Union on 21 November. I have proposed to Commissioner Tibor Navracsics and my Bulgarian counterpart, who will be holding the rotating presidency, that we meet in Paris in the first quarter of this year to design a European recovery in sport around the voluntary Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u205	With the English?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u206	I am convinced, indeed, that sport can make its contribution to this Europe that protects, which the President of the Republic called for in his speech to the Sorbonne last September. I am also convinced that only the European level can provide solutions to the issues of shared interests that we face. I am thinking in particular of better financing of sport for all within the framework of Erasmus +. I am also thinking of better sharing of dividends between rights holders and hosting territories for major sporting events. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Union is a force, especially in sport! You can count on my voluntarism and my commitment to get Europe to work on these projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u207	In the general debate, Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u208	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, sport is a total social phenomenon. It is at the crossroads of societal issues and, through the values it conveys, plays a central role in our citizen and secular Republic. It is an educational tool in its own right that promotes social diversity and is one of the most efficient vectors for the cohesion of our country and our citizens. Sport is also a modern expression of the great cultural traditions of our past. There is no need to recall the benefits of regular physical exercise on the health of our fellow citizens. The sport gathers and integrates, exalts our passions around a stimulating physical effort and arouses the collective or personal enthusiasm around a team or an athlete in a national or international context. Champions, medals and podiums are the tree that hides the forest: a pool of amateur athletes who practice their respective disciplines within a network of sports clubs scattered across our national territory. Sport can be represented as a pyramidal system. At its top is a minority elite and at its base is a mass of licensees who love the sport to which they practise. In France, 26 million French people engage in regular sports practice in the 100 federations recognized by the Ministry of Sports. Every effort must be made to ensure the unity of the system and to promote complementarity and cohesion between the base and the summit. Because it is from this base that our future champions, who will compete at the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 for which France has been designated host country, are born. For the time being, these future champions have not yet emerged from childhood or are just beginning their early teens. They should be supported in their personal, physical and moral development, creating the best conditions for their development. Sports clubs, regardless of their size or location, play a role of awakening and revealing to accompany certain athletes to the high level and to ensure their support, if necessary by elite structures that will enable them to achieve their personal high performance objectives. Today, therefore, we regret the difficulties encountered by amateur sport, which is no longer able to provide the necessary funding to comply with the ever more stringent standards concerning the supervision of licensees by sports educators as well as the associated infrastructure or equipment used. Let us be clear: these standards built by the various sports federations help to offer the licensees a service of higher quality by guiding sports practices with greater attention, and our aim is not to call them into question. Nevertheless, for smaller associations, they impose significant funding that the decline in public allocations no longer makes it possible to compensate. In particular, small municipalities are no longer able to make the necessary investments for local clubs. The difficulties encountered by our sports associations contrast with the mismatch of certain sports transfers that are now reaching peaks, symbols of a growing and vexing disconnection between the professional and amateur world. The bill that we are considering, at the initiative of Michel Zumkeller, is a response to the difficulties of amateur sport. Without calling into question the mechanisms already in place, such as the Buffet tax on the revenues generated by television audiences, it aims to introduce an additional solidarity mechanism. Taxation of financial flows to the tune of 5% during transfers between French clubs or between a French club and a foreign club will make it possible to allocate significant subsidies to sports associations experiencing financing difficulties. The National Centre for Sport Development deserves support in its redistribution efforts and could be associated with this provision. There is an urgent need to close the gap between amateur and professional sport, and to actively advocate for the mutualization of these two entities. This is an indispensable element for our medal race and for the maintenance of our community fabric. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill does not focus solely on the case of football, although it is of particular interest to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u209	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u210	It concerns all sports in which the practice of transfer payments is carried out. The financialization of sport seems to be an irreversible process. It calls for a gradual regulation of the flows inherent in it and a work by the public authorities, to accompany this change which risks affecting an increasing number of sports disciplines. Our bill is not intended to weaken the French sports economy or the attractiveness of French clubs, but to strengthen the basis on which our professional sports leagues are based in order to increase their reach abroad and attract the interest of investors. In this regard, we remain convinced that it is essential to bring the debate to the European level and to place France at the head of this initiative in order to give an imitation effect to our European partners and to guarantee unbiased competition between French and European clubs. Our parliamentary group is also in favour of closer cooperation at European level on sports matters. It is necessary to put in place a genuine political agenda on this subject in order to reflect with our partners on the good governance of this political and societal field. Sport, you will have understood, is, for a large part of the population, a set of non-market practices based on volunteerism and a living associative life around which a community gathers. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI and MODEM groups]] The UDI, Action and Independents Group therefore calls for the adoption of the text and the introduction of this tax, whose philosophy attempts to interrupt the long slide in which we have been engaged for too long and which harms both our champions and our athletes on Sunday.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u212	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u213	[["Ah! »on the benches of the UAI group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the New Left Group supports the principle of a tax on transfers of professional sportsmen and women, as well as the strengthening and creation of new solidarity mechanisms between professional and amateur sport. Moreover, even if it is of good intent, the bill we are discussing today is the wrong target in its implementation. We believe in the need to better regulate and redistribute in part the sums of transfers that have become colossal, especially in professional football. It should be noted that by the end of this year, the transfer payments currently paid to the clubs of the five major European championships are likely to exceed the 2016 record of €4.5 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u214	All the more reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u215	Over the past ten years, the number of transfers – almost 15,000 – has increased fivefold, and the compensation for these transfers has increased eightfold: these transfers represent 900 million euros, only for France, in 2017. Considerable sums of money are circulating and many intermediaries – entourage or players' agents – benefit from it. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] However, as much as we plead for this regulation, we also believe that action must be taken at European and international level in this area: we do not believe in a tax that would be introduced in one country. As such, a specific impact assessment would have been useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, please let Mr Juanico speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u217	... to shed light on the consequences of the application of a tax on transfers of professional athletes in France. Unfortunately, impact assessments are not yet mandatory for the legislative proposals on the agenda of our Assembly, although, as you know, we are considering, in the working group on means of monitoring and evaluation, that these impact assessments are mandatory in the future. I would also have been interested in the opinion of the Council of State on the text, in particular with regard to its conformity with European law and, of course, its technical feasibility and its economic and financial impact. The right level of regulation and action is European. UEFA – Union of European Football Associations – has already adopted several mechanisms, in particular in 2010, with fair financial play, which is well known to our colleague Marie-George Buffet, which allows better regulation of the budgets and the evolution of the wage bill of the major European clubs. FIFA itself, in 2015, decided to ban third-party ownership of professional footballers at the international level. In France, for professional leagues, there is a system of strict supervision of clubs by the national management control directorates – DNCG – which, moreover, should be able to be transposed at European level. Finally, since 2001, still at FIFA level, a training and solidarity allowance has been paid, on the occasion of international transfers of players, to the training clubs for the players who were trained there between their twelfth and twenty-third birthdays. There is no doubt that this mechanism, which benefits only certain clubs, should be improved, just as progress should be made in the supervision of the very lucrative profession of sports agents and in the protection – this is an important point – of the system of training young players, especially in our country; Indeed, it is an area in which France is a leader, and this advantage should not be reduced by a tax as you envisage it. In any case, all these regulatory mechanisms are moving in the right direction, and I will gladly propose to the Minister and to our rapporteur that all our groups present here, together, mobilize to advance, in conjunction with UEFA, the tax dossier on transfers of professional athletes to the European Parliament, to the European Commission...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u219	... where this subject has been the subject of reflection since 2013, and where it clearly needs a political accelerator. If your bill were adopted, you should know that the two most important transfers of the year, Neymar's from FC Barcelona, and Mbappé's from AS Monaco – each in excess of EUR 100 million – would not have been affected by the scheme, since both clubs are not subject to our tax legislation. I regret it for a long time about AS Monaco, which is still playing in our national championship. In 2013, with Guénhaël Huet, then Member of the Union for a Popular Movement, we conducted an exciting joint information mission on the policy of support for professional sport and solidarity with amateur sport. Conclusion: for an annual turnover of just over €2 billion, there is now less than 10% of the financial return from professional sport to amateur sport. I am talking here about the payments of professional leagues to federations and the Buffet tax – 30 million euros – and the payments of professional clubs to their supporting associations – 70 million euros – and the levy on sports bets – just over 30 million euros. I believe that we may go beyond 10% of solidarity between the professional world and the amateur world, first by strengthening existing resources. I am thinking in particular of the fact that the return of the professional football league to the French Football Federation should increase mechanically if the amount of retransmission rights on television increased in 2020, since, as you know, this return is based on a percentage of 2.5% of these rights. We are very much in favour of strengthening the mechanisms of financial solidarity between professional and amateur sport, and of pushing resources towards the CNDS, a State operator in favour of sport for all in the territories. However, before moving a hypothetical tax towards the CNDS, we should already ensure that we preserve the current resources of this institution, and therefore the level of the taxes affected, the vast majority of which are drawn from the draw and scrapping games of the French game. I recall that the Government, with the support of some of the signatories to this bill, voted for a net saving of €64 million on the resources of the CNDS in the context of the 2018 Finance Bill. The affected taxes which are thus planed or abolished are, first of all, the exceptional levy of 0.3% on the French game, which we extended last year unanimously, and which provided 25 million euros, each year, until 2024, to the Heritage Fund of the candidature of Paris for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, and thus to amateur sport, to the sports facilities close to the communities and to the accompaniment of the projects of the clubs in our territories. The Buffet tax is also planed: it is reduced from €40 million to €25 million. However, this levy on the transfer of television rights to sporting events taking place in France is the very symbol of the redistribution between professional and amateur sport. We had tried, three years ago, to expand its base, extending it to rights holders abroad; the amendment had been voted in the finance bill, but had been censored by the Constitutional Council. The last deflated tax is the levy on sports bets, which was also planed by 10 million euros, while it was increased last year by the same amount, also to abound the CNDS Heritage Fund for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. This took place very directly in our amateur clubs and territories; It focuses on a very dynamic resource, since, in sports betting, bets increased by 45% in 2016, after 30% in 2015. I think that the resources drawn from sports bets will have to be raised, because it is natural that much of the money goes back to the development of sport for all. It is therefore not enough to talk about the CNDS; it is also necessary to preserve and consolidate these appropriations. In this regard, allow me to make a proposal. We will have the opportunity to speak again about the Olympic and Paralympic Games, as part of a bill that we will be considering in a few days' time. You promised us, Minister, a second bill on sport for all and the links between sport and society in a few months' time. Why not devote a percentage of the contributions of the OCOG's private partners – the Olympic Games Organizing Committee – of which one billion euros are expected, to the CNDS for the inheritance of the Olympic and Paralympic Games?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u221	This would be in line with the objective of the rapporteur and the signatories of the bill, and would be in a perhaps faster and more realistic perspective. In any case, despite laudable intentions, the New Left Group will not, unfortunately, vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u223	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u224	[[Mr Ruffin withdraws his sweater, revealing the jersey of a football team. – Protests on several benches]] Minister, you are the Minister of Sport, but you have only told us about competitiveness, market share, attractiveness, with a trader's reasoning. I'd like to talk to you about it differently, humanly. The jersey I'm wearing today is that of the Watercourt Olympian. It was my friend Antoine's club. Franck Hernat was its president; I met him at an end-of-year meal at Eaucourt-sur-Somme's party room. You see the atmosphere: the tables were covered with fluo tablecloths, the sound swinged "And you sing, sing, sing, this chorus that you like! The kids sprinted in the alleys, crawled on the tile. With Antoine, we had taken refuge in the kitchen, behind the drink, near the president. I came to elucidate the mystery of the miracle of folded jerseys. Let me explain: from a very small age, I played football, and, from a very small age, on Saturday or Sunday, in the changing rooms, before the game, a coach laid a pelvis on a bench; In the basin, all the shorts, the socks, the shirts washed, folded, tidy in order: first, the 1 of the guard, the 2 of the right rear, until 12, 13, 14 of the replacements, when they had been left crados, covered with sweat, clothed. The next weekend, they were washed, folded, tidy. I tried to talk about it once with my partners in the sports association of the Ribemont-sur-Ancre rural foyer, while we put on the tibia protectors: "It is still miraculous, no, these jerseys that arrive to us washed, bent, tidy in order? » They didn't understand where, philosophically, I was going. Instead, check if the balloon is swollen, they advised me. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] So tonight, behind her big glasses and thick mustaches, I was hoping that Frank Hernat would light me up. He was forty years old, working at DAR, a conservatory manufacturer in Poix-de-Picardie. Sometimes he went to Normandy, like this Thursday, to Cherbourg. Even if he got up at four o'clock in the morning, that doesn't prevent him, in the evening, from going to the stadium, even quickly, just half an hour, to attend the training of the chicks. Sometimes he goes there in slippers, because of his safety shoes that, in the daytime, hurt his feet. I asked him, "Why all these efforts? "For the kids," he replied; It's his leitmotiv, kids; It's his cause, giving the kids a taste. He wants the kids to be happy, but those hours of happiness are worth it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u225	There's no settlement in here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u226	You have to mow the lawn, draw the lines, run the drink, sell the calendars, get the sponsors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u227	And why not come in shorts?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u228	His box, DAR, is in recovery, so it's Pont-Remy's kebab this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u229	I hope he takes off the jersey!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u230	We have to organize tournaments of pétanque, of sixte, of young people to equip in jerseys the 140 dismissed. As a matter of fact, I bounced: "How do you wash the jerseys? "Ben, to the machine," he replied. "No but agree, but what is the deep motivation? "Ben, so they're clean! My investigation was trampling on. The president pays his kir, unfolds a 10 note from his wallet. I slip it: "You have to make yourself a lot of money..." "Hey, how do you do that? ", he is astonished. "Don't make me believe that if you're serving the drink, if you're preparing paellas, if you're cutting the lawn, if you're drawing chalk lines, if you're washing, bend, put the jerseys away, isn't that a bit for money? » He insurgents, turns to his wife: "No, but hear you, Babeth, he says we earn money with the club. "Oh, we lose some, yes! The president revolts. "Tell him how much we leave there every month" "Three hundred euros, perhaps, that it costs us! She's replying. "With the fuel to drive the teams, with the blows that are paid to the players... Tonight alone, we forgot the garbage bags, the macedon, well, we bought them out of our pocket. But I insist: "Do you get your travels reimbursed? "No, and no one here, in all those you see, in the ten leaders, there is not a parent, there is not one who has received a cent. » Are you beginning to understand my miracle story? In this society where everything is traded, where services are sold and bought, where the businessman is a new man, where blind profit guides the world and leads us to the abyss, they are there, about ten in Eaucourt, but also in Ribemont, North Amiens, Agen, Fécamp, Bruay, Aulnay, that they are called Franck, Mohammed or Florence, in football, hand, gymnastics, judo, twirling stick, they are tens of thousands throughout the country to serve for the drink, to prepare paellas, to wash, to fold, to tidy the jerseys. And all these efforts, not a round! Why, by the way? For quite vague reasons, not computable. For the kids. To be together, too. To keep small clubs at the end of their arms and to make villages or neighbourhoods exist through them. A resistance to king money, more massive, more daily and more underground than the manifs with banners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u231	That's what humanity is about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u232	I was with Annie in Abbeville. She was detailing her financial worries. "I have a notebook with all my bills. I have 64.95 euros of gas and electricity per month. "That's how it is for the poor," I pointed out, "you know the amount by heart, even behind the comma. She said to me, "Yes, we do the counting in the head, we do it with the children. I calculated that we still have 20 euros a day for six people. "You mean 20 euros for food, clothes and leisure, right? " "Yes, she confirms me. So, leisure, there's none. "For example, I question it, what activity do your children have on weekends? Annie replied: "None. The twins would have liked to play football, but it's more possible. We used to get help from the neighborhood house, they paid half the license. So, since football was too expensive, I put them in table tennis last year. It was only 25 euros. » For me, ladies and gentlemen, football is the happiness of childhood. So, that a kid can't put on crampons and type in the babble for lack of money from his parents, how can he accept it? In our billion-dollar rich country, you think that's normal? Are we going to tolerate this? I'm not just talking about a balloon, I'm talking about envy, the desire to want. For my children, I only yearn for one thing, that they are passionate about something, anything: playing football, repairing mopeds, looking for fossils, karaoke, drawing Mickeys, anything, but that our children feed a desire, a passion and we will save them. Make them feel good about something! This is the tragedy that I too often see, under the shelter of a village or at the bottom of the towers of a neighborhood: the void of envy. Kids who feel bad at school and who, as a result, feel bad at everything, not made for life, who fall back on themselves and despair, at thirteen, fifteen or seventeen years old. At home, resignation has already made its nest, a gigantic "what's the point? " Sport, sometimes, can fight that. Give a kid the feeling that he's at least good at it, good for dribbling and scoring goals. His week will be lit, simply because on Saturday, he will have put a cover of theft in the skylight and will have been, during the time of a game, a hero for himself. This pride will resonate on the rest. Football doesn't have the monopoly of this pride, which it may draw from the theatre, because it makes its friends laugh on the stage. Or a trumpet, because he'll play in the city band. Whatever. But we have to figure it out. For every kid, you have to find something, something, something that brings pride to the rest. That's it, minister, after what gold medal we have to run for. We are far from it, far away. The budget for amateur sport is derisory, tiny, compared to the billions of euros spilled to the elite. I checked the internet last night: the budget of the professional football league is 850 million euros, compared to 214 million euros for the French Football Federation. In other words, four times more money is spent in France for the forty professional clubs and their 1650 players than for the 2.1 million amateurs and thousands of clubs. When the market gives everything to an elite and nothing, or so little, to people, what is our role to us, elected politicians, and to you, public authorities, if not to restore a minimum balance by law? Marie-George Buffet opened the way some 20 years ago with the introduction of a television rights tax. With his proposal, our colleague Michel Zumkeller continues this path today. That big contracts are taxed at 5%, frankly, no player, no agent even will die. And I understand that many of you are being dismantled by the desire to raise the rate to 10, 20 or 30%, and I think Michel Zumkeller is open to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u233	That way, there'll only be amateur football.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u234	What do you propose for amateur sport? What did I hear, minister? You have taken "the initiative of a reflection on the field of sport with your European counterparts". Is that the strong measure? Taking the initiative of a reflection? In the meantime, how many more thousands of children will be excluded from the land? How many will stay on the bench? How many Franck, Mohammed, Florence will throw the sponge? And they won't be replaced. "Everyone is replaceable," they say. I don't believe it. There are many schools of engineers, hairdressers, magistrates, teachers, plumbers, journalists, but there is no school of self-giving, no school of generosity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Franck Hernat died at the age of 48 from a breakdown of aneurysm, and he was not replaced at the Watercourt Olympia where he was still lacking. The club is running, but not in the same way. It is that they do not exist infinitely, you know, the Franks, the Mohammeds and the Florences, who give their time without counting, this time which, for them, is not money. They are precious, so let's help them, let's give them a boost, so that our children will continue to give the envy, the desire for envy, and the light of their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u236	[[Applause on several benches of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups]] Mr Ruffin, I remind you that the National Assembly has rules. Although the rules governing the holding of Members' sittings have recently changed, respect for our debates and for our Assembly requires proper conduct, which is worthy of place and of the mission entrusted to us. I would ask you to remain respectful and to stay away from these extravagance clothes, which do not pay tribute to the work we have to do in this House. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1087.u237	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of Mr Michel Zumkeller's proposal for a law and several of his colleagues to introduce a tax on transfers of professional athletes; Discussion of the bill proposed by Mr Philippe Vigier and several of his colleagues establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories; Discussion of the proposed law of Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann and several of his colleagues allowing for the proper application of the European asylum system; Discussion of Mr Christophe Naegelen's proposal for a law and several of his colleagues on the creation of a local authority employment cheque. The meeting is adjourned.
