ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the enabling bill to adopt by order measures to strengthen social dialogue (No.4, 19, 18).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u2	I would remind you that, at the request of the Government, we are considering as a matter of priority this morning Article 9 as well as the amendments to the additional articles after Article 9 on the source levy of income tax. We will then resume the normal course of our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u3	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u4	It is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. That night, we witnessed a new staging of the Government, since at 00:55 a.m., he called first an amendment No. 415 that should have been discussed further in the bill. This amendment dealt with the re-evaluation of statutory redundancies for employees. It is surprising, on the one hand, that it was not considered in place of its own text, and, on the other hand, of the way in which our work is proceeding. In fact, the Government is not interested in Parliament at all and puts it aside, since the amendment has not been discussed in committee, except in the context of Rule 88, which is known to take place. So he could not be discussed. There was no further discussion on this subject in the Chamber at the very end of last night's sitting, since the amendment in question was withdrawn. The minister announced that a simple decree would be substituted for the Order in Council of State: the method is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u5	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u6	It reflects the Government's contempt for Parliament. At the same time, the Government, which does not answer the questions of the deputies, is in the process of dealing with all the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u8	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] If I think that consultation with these same partners is absolutely essential, it cannot be held simultaneously outside and within Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u9	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u10	I would like to raise the same subject as Mr Cherpion at the moment, with the following clarification: while I wanted to ask the Presidency yesterday to resume Amendment No 415, the sitting was adjourned before my request could be heard. I regret that, because it was a good amendment, which we would have voted for, which would have given us the opportunity to share – quite broadly, it seems to me – a good parliamentary initiative. I wanted to say it. On the other hand, I also wonder about the method used: was this amendment, as well as the commitment made by the Government, the result of discussions with the social partners? In essence, we are never very sure of the timing of these discussions nor of the conclusions that have emerged from them. I also wanted to remind you of this and to say that I am disappointed that this has happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u11	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u12	My point is in the same spirit as the previous colleagues. On the basis of my point of order on Rule 58(1), I agree with what they have said: since the beginning of the debate, the Government, failing to be able to answer our questions, refers us to the ongoing social dialogue and thus accredits the idea that Parliament is consulted only for form. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the FI and LR groups]] Last night, we witnessed, once again, an episode illustrating the total contempt in which the Government holds Parliament. Moreover, when we were promised a dusty democracy, we had to deal with old politics: an amendment called, which first circulates in the corridors of the Assembly and which we are told is that one of the trade union organisations is very much interested in its examination, is then – as if by chance! – presented by our colleague Aurélien Taché and then immediately withdrawn, just before the adjournment of the sitting. It is called old politics, they are old methods worn by new faces, and it is a humiliation of Parliament and a failure to respect parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u14	Mr Cherpion, Mr Vallaud and Mr Jumel, I have taken note of your comments on the proceedings of last night's sitting. I propose that we resume our work and come to Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u15	The first speaker on the agenda is Mr Gilles Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u16	Madam President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, by this Article 9, the Government proposes that we postpone the entry into force of the income tax source levy for a year in order to enable it to carry out an audit of its implementation. It is, it is true, complex and, if it is not well prepared, it may ultimately lead to a huge failure. However, we had denounced this complexity at the time of the vote on the 2018 Finance Act. In our view, this is a formidable gas plant that will make companies tax collectors volunteers. Of course, they already ensure the levy of the general social contribution, the CSG, but, by adding income tax, you are certainly not going, Minister, to simplify their lives. This reform will also have a cost for these same companies: the Council of Compulsory Levies has calculated it between 1.3% and 3.5% of the sums collected, i.e. around EUR 2.2 billion, which will increase their costs. Another source of complexity is that any error in the source levy will be highly detrimental not only to taxpayers but also to businesses. We are therefore opposed to this source sampling, for it has been poorly prepared and is, as things stand, inapplicable. In my view, the President of the Republic was right to request the postponement of its entry into force by one year. Moreover, we agree with Mrs Rabault's amendment requesting a report following the experiment that the Government decided to carry out between July and September 2017. We also consider that this section 9 has nothing to do in this enabling bill to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue: it is, in our view, a horseman. The Government would have been better advised to include in the agenda of this special session the consideration of a draft amending finance bill that would have allowed us to consider this matter on its merits. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are the reasons why we will support an amendment to delete Article 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u17	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u18	To continue in line with what has just been said, this article does indeed have all the appearances of a legislative rider walking freely where it is not appropriate to do so. In addition to this aspect, the postponement of the entry into force of the income tax levy shows that, on the part of the Ministry of Finance, things are more difficult than expected. I believe that the proposed reform will make things more complex and not, contrary to what had been announced, simpler. By integrating a third-party collector into tax relations, in this case the employer, one adds a working part to an already complex tax system, together with an additional complication for taxpayers as well as for businesses, especially small ones. What has been said in this regard must be understood: it is clear to us that it is not the employer's responsibility to collect the tax, and I am sure that others here share this view. First, it is a public service job. By the way, I would point out that in Switzerland, employers who have thus been involved have asked for compensation from the State. Secondly, there is information that employers do not have to know and that they will have there in their hands. But they will interfere in social relations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We have just learned that the dividends paid in 2017 will amount to 46 billion euros: for those too, we would have to imagine a levy at source. For the sake of the matter, it would be really useful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u19	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u20	It is a singular article, because it obeys a double logic. We are, on the one hand, faced with a legislative cavalier, since you have rightly pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, that this enabling legislation introduces a provision which should not have room. On the other hand, it is a procrastination measure, since it is considered that an immediate entry into force of the device might be dangerous. In a way, they say, "One more minute, Mr. the executioner." Despite this, or because of it, we must vote for Article 9 – properly amended, of course – because it is essential to save time. Yes, one more minute, Mr. executioner... It is better not to apply this system, because it is based on a chimera: to claim to strike by tax, simultaneously, an income at the time it is formed, even though the tax levy results from the aggregation of different income, that it is paid not by an individual but by a tax home and that it is progressive. These three reasons make it impossible to do so. Moreover, speaking of withholding tax is an impropriacy of term: in reality, we are proposed to modify the deposit system – the tax will continue to be calculated, liquidated and paid in year "n + 1" – which works relatively well, provided that the monthly levy, which tends to become the habit, is actually systematized. We are therefore replacing the current system with a completely complex system that will prove to be much worse. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I am therefore pleased to see that we are gaining a year that will enable us, I have no doubt, to promote common sense both in this House, in the administration and in the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u21	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u22	A few words, ladies and gentlemen, to express our astonishment at the postponement of the entry into force of the levy at source in an enabling bill on the strengthening of social dialogue. Here is a legislative rider who wanders strangely, in complete freedom, in this text! This debate took place last year during the budget discussion. Why not take it back in the same framework today, as is the rule for any budgetary provision? One finds oneself in the paradoxical situation in which the Government hastened to postpone; It's, to say the least, crazy. Beyond this aspect, which is not negligible and which explains why we did not propose an amendment, the postponement of the levy at source tends to show that there would be difficulties of implementation on the side of the Ministry of Finance – officials will appreciate... Perhaps ill-intentioned minds evoke, here and there, the political motives that could be behind this postponement. The executive would like to ensure the visibility of the next reduction in social contributions, which, I would remind you, will penalise pensioners with modest and medium-sized pensions. Such visibility would not be ensured in the event of implementation within the initial deadlines set by the Finance Act for 2017. What about the minister? We are particularly sceptical about the form of the source levy as defined in the 2017 Finance Act, considering that the proposed reform will complicate things rather than simplify them. We are told about contemporaneity but, in reality, there will always be a lag: the rate will be calculated not on current income but on previous income, especially in the first months of the year. On the other hand, we fear that this reform will be the Trojan horse of a merger between income tax and the CSG. What are the Government's intentions in this regard? For our part, we will be extremely vigilant with regard to everything that might call into question the financing of social security. Finally, let us remember that the current system offers taxpayers some freedom: monthly payments, third-party payments, possibilities for modulation. Many of our fellow citizens find it difficult to accept a system that they consider to be authoritarian. We hear these concerns: the issue we find in watermark is that of consent to tax, on which we could debate at length. We therefore remain in favour of a truly contemporary alternative tax collection system that would guarantee the confidentiality of tax data and the effectiveness of collection, as we have stated on several occasions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u23	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u24	Undeniably, this Article 9 is a legislative cavalier which has no place in this text; Everyone said so. We can only be relieved of this postponement, but unlike my colleague Bourlanges, who will therefore vote in favour of this measure, we will call for a vote against it. It will be said, and we heard it yesterday, that the source levy is modern, that the world is changing. Colleagues, withholding tax was introduced in Germany in 1920, in 1943 in the United States, in 1944 in Great Britain, in 1962 in Belgium, countries where tax administration was not effective today. This one is, I would remind you, one of the best, with a recovery rate of 98%. In England, for example, the equivalent of the Court of Auditors regularly criticizes this method, in particular because of the labour instability, frequent job changes, which the content of this draft law should contribute to aggravating in France. In the Netherlands, Spain, the cost is criticized, and in Germany, the complexity, to the point that taxpayers are forced to call on private advisors to know their tax status. On the substance, we are against it because it amounts to asking the employer to carry out an additional administrative task, when we are constantly told that companies are overburdened with it. The other reason for our position is the breach of confidentiality regarding private income. This method of levying will also weaken the tax administration, and one may wonder whether it is not, in the long run, a question of privatizing this regal mission in a creeping way. Finally, the question of consent arises. Couldn't we rather think about a contemporary tax collection...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u25	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u26	Let me conclude on this point, Madam President! The previous speaker was able to speak for forty seconds more than regulatory time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u27	Nevertheless, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u28	Instead, line up to the least disertation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u29	I looked at the chronometer, Madam President; The speaking time extended to two minutes and forty seconds. I therefore believe that I have the right to pursue; I only have one sentence left. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] A contemporary tax recovery, made possible by digital technology and advances in information technology, would help to maintain the direct link between the taxpayer and the administration while avoiding discrepancies that are detrimental to the most modest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u30	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u31	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are meeting for a fourth day of debate on this enabling bill on social dialogue. We may be surprised that Article 9 relates to income tax; It's a bit of a horseman. We would have preferred it to be included in a law of amending finance, especially considering the inseverity of the 2017 budget and the explosion of the budgetary framework that we are witnessing day after day. The outgoing majority lied to us, the new majority is not ready to tell the truth; That's unfortunate. It is a way of avoiding debate before national representation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] The purpose of this article is to authorize the Government to make a one-year displacing order, as of January 1, 2019, for the coming into force of the source levy on income tax. I understand the Government's doubt about this reform: employers don't want it either. The eventual risk of a merger of income tax with the CSG would also be dramatic for the middle classes and families. That is why we must abolish this reform, not simply postpone it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u32	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u33	To begin with, let us recall the objective of the levy at source, which is the object of Article 9: to render a service to the taxpayer...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u34	Is that really the case?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u35	... by adapting in real time the tax to be paid and levying taking into account in a contemporary way the evolution of income as well as the family situations, which change a lot. The payment of income tax with a one-year lag mainly penalizes new pensioners, new parents, business starters, expatriates, laid-off persons. It was for all these people, who are thousands each year, that the collection at source had been decided. Secondly, this article is indeed a budgetary rider, and I agree with the previous speakers on this point. I would also point out that yesterday in the Finance Committee we received former Ministers Christian Eckert and Michel Sapin, who traced the process of this levy and confirmed to us that the services were ready to implement it and that the crash test was well planned. Personally, I regret this postponement, but, understanding the arguments put forward, I will satisfy myself. I will oppose, on the other hand, an abandonment. I would also like to take the floor to thank Bercy's services for the tremendous work they have done in recent months.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u36	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u37	I am quite surprised that the Government introduces a rider into the first text of the legislature: we do not see very well the relationship between the postponement of the levy at source and the social dialogue, Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u38	It's a bit of a horseman!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u40	...but perhaps I have not yet understood well what social dialogue was. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly stated that the 2017 budget is insinuating. It would therefore have been justified to examine this summer a collective budget in which this measure would have been introduced. Be aware that the Constructive Group is opposed to the source sampling. My colleagues and I are in favour of abolishing it outright. It seems to us to have to be done in the context of a global overhaul of taxation in France, which contains many special provisions, in particular tax niches, and has a mille-feuille look. The reform should be of a different magnitude, and it cannot be reduced to the source alone, which was decided on in the previous legislature. Moreover, as many have pointed out before me, the shift to the source levy removes the confidentiality of employees' private incomes, which will be known to the employer. Because we want to remove the source levy, we will propose an amendment to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u41	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u42	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I fully share the sentiment of our colleagues Vercamer and Bazin. Obviously, sampling at source is an error; It should not be postponed but deleted for reasons of confidentiality and complexity. [[Smile]] Regarding confidentiality, the problem was perfectly summed up by an executive secretary: "I like my boss, but I don't want him to know how much I earn elsewhere, how much my husband earns, how much my tax household pays. The other difficulty, minister, comes from the fact that he is a horseman, and it is a paradox that he is laid down by infantrymen; To my knowledge, this is what we call those who are on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u44	You're in good shape, Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u45	This creates a real fragility, Minister: obviously, we had to go through a law of amending finance. Failing to do so, you are under an obligation to introduce this rider. You will therefore amend by order a measure resulting from an initial finance law, which poses a real problem of constitutionality, knowing that moreover, it is the income of the year that is concerned. I therefore call on you to table, as soon as possible, a law on amending finance, which will allow us to deal with other matters, in particular the increase in the cancellation of appropriations which you impose on us and which is detrimental to the defence and the security of our fellow citizens. As we prepare to celebrate on 14 July, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior is being reduced. That is the subject we want to address today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u46	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Article 9 has nothing to do with a text dealing with the Labour Code. It should be incorporated into an amending finance law, which I urge you to do, Minister of Public Action and Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u48	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u49	On the issue of source sampling, two questions arise: why should this be carried forward, and how should this new method of sampling be implemented? Why the postponement? The Government asserts that we are not ready, and the minister here here says that he wants to avoid an industrial accident, which is in fact preferable. Yesterday we interviewed Mr. Eckert, who was in charge of this issue in the previous government; There is a continuity of the State. He maintains that the Government was ready; the Government, therefore the administration. The same administration was therefore ready last May and is no longer ready in July. The reason for the postponement is therefore a real subject. The experiment was planned for the summer. Were we ready or not? A question of sincerity arises in this case. The real reason for the postponement, as well as the political understanding, is that the levy at source would cannibalize the reduction in the wage social charges that the Government is planning to compensate for the increase in the CSG. These transactions appear on the payroll. However, with the levy at source, an employee will not be able to see, for example, the slight increase in his salary that could result from a reduction in wage contributions that is higher than the increase in the CSG. Is that enough reason to postpone the levy to the source, which the previous government had presented as the alpha and the omega of the modernization of the tax levy on income? Why such a rush to the postponement? The other question is whether source sampling is a good idea. The measure contains both a good idea and a bad idea. In my opinion, the good idea is to avoid the one-year lag between the collection of income and the payment of tax. This reduces uncertainty and does not start the year by being a debtor of the tax administration. The wrong idea, on the other hand, is to go through companies, i.e. to the source, because this involves, in particular, an additional administrative burden and poses confidentiality problems; We'll have an opportunity to come back later. The problem could therefore be resolved differently: I tabled an amendment to the effect that the monthlyization of income would become, or almost, a contemporary one, as long as the data are automatically transmitted to the tax administration, which collects the tax and discusses it with the taxpayer. The company would therefore not be part of the scheme. At a time when we are talking about simplifying and reducing the burdens of all kinds of companies, let us not increase them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u50	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u51	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I want to reply to each of the speakers on the article, first of all by observing that the repetition of a counter-truth does not turn it into a truth. There are no riders here, even though it would please the former mayor of Chantilly...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u52	[[Smile]] A little easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u53	[[Smile]] Of course, but it had to be done... From two things one: either the collection at source modifies the relationship between the employer and the employee, to paraphrase Marc Le Fur, or he does not change it. If one of the objections to this is, in your view, that the usual discussion with the tax administration will now take place with the company, it means, dear Marc Le Fur, that a social dialogue will take place. And whether you like your boss or not, a new relationship can then be established with him – this is in any case one of the arguments put forward by the opponents of the source sampling. It is therefore not illogical to propose the postponement of this measure in the bill we are debating. The second argument is that this deferral is not exclusively a matter of a finance law: it is neither a question of changing the rate of a tax nor of reviewing the operation of such a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u54	It is still a matter of reviewing the way in which the tax is collected!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u55	It is therefore right for the Government to propose the postponement of the measure by order: the Constitutional Council will have the opportunity to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u56	You're weakening things!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u57	I would also like to emphasize, to the attention of those who will read the record of our debates, the interest that the Government – and, I hope, parliamentary representation – has had in securing this postponement. In fact, all the candidates in the presidential election spoke about the source levy, whether to announce its abolition, its retention or its postponement. There were therefore uncertainties, but everyone knew about the candidates from the primary schools since January – even longer. The time has come to decide on a legal basis, so that citizens do not have to wait until the end of the year with the finance law. These two arguments, I think, will be heard by the Constitutional Council, and they will validate the provision that the Government is proposing to you today. I come to the bottom and will try to answer everyone, asking you in advance to excuse any repetitions – respect for parliamentarians, I believe, requires individual responses. Mr Lurton referred to the complexity of taxing businesses. I understand, but they are already doing part of this task, with CSG and VAT. So I don't think the argument is very effective. However, you are right, the measure may have a cost to businesses. I have therefore taken several decisions which, I believe, answer the legitimate questions of national representation. First of all, I have ordered the General Inspectorate of Finance, but also an independent firm, to assess the possible burden – since at this stage it is only possible – for companies, especially the smallest of them. It is a matter of importance, which we cannot decide on the basis of fantasies or assumptions. As Mr. Bourlanges suggested, I have asked the IGF and this independent firm to work together on a report that will gather the views of all companies, both small and large, but also of the administration and the artisans. I have committed myself, before the Committee on Finance and its chairman, to forward this report to the parliamentary representation as soon as it is given to me. Everyone, if I may say so, is not equal to the tax at source. Companies are against it, you say. That remains to be checked! The majority of entrepreneurs, such as farmers, are in favour. The tax gap in terms of the seasonality of their activity is a major problem for them. So let us not put all companies in the same category: farmers, I repeat, are also entrepreneurs. Those who, like me, work in cross-border spaces know that all European countries – as Mr Coquerel said – have implemented the tax at source. In a commune I know well, mine, almost all entrepreneurs employing cross-border workers apply the measure, since Belgians are subject to it. In short, many border companies, in France, already apply the contemporary tax, without it in any way motivating national representation. In short, the cost must indeed be assessed, this question is welcome, especially for the smaller companies: this is the subject of the report that I have ordered. Mr Dharréville referred to a complication for taxpayers. I do not entirely agree, and will take a few moments to explain it to me. In essence, the question we are interested in is: Is contemporary taxation a good thing or not? Your group, like those on the same side of the House, suggests that a different tax reform is needed. Your opposition to the tax at source, you say, is due to your opposition to the current tax system, which is a political issue: I hear it, even if we cannot agree on this point. On the other hand, if one assumes that it is better to pay the tax in a contemporary way, then one considers the levy at source as a modality, a modality that one can contest, what the Chairman of the Committee on Finance does, for whom – if I do not betray his thought – contemporaneity is also a good idea in itself. The positions taken on this point, moreover, vary in some political camps, and I shall return to that. In principle, therefore, is tax contemporaneity desirable or not? Among taxpayers, 30% see their income change from year to year; 40 per cent of them, this is a decline. This poses real problems with the purchasing power and payment of tax, since tax is delayed by one year. We all receive people who, in order to pay their taxes, sometimes have to get into debt. Things are easy when you're sure you're getting the same income for four, five or ten years, but for many of our fellow citizens, job and income security is limited. Paying taxes when you touch money is also, in this sense, a social measure. The one-year lag can be a major problem for many of our citizens; So the idea of contemporary taxation could bring together a majority of you without questioning the tax system as a whole, even though, I repeat, I hear some political arguments without sharing them. It is here that we must focus on the modalities. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Confidentiality is an important issue. Mr. Vercamer made an argument that doesn't surprise me. The employers, he said, will know the income of their employees: it seems to me that the principle of payment of wages by the employer...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u58	He will also know the other income!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u59	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, only the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u61	You will agree with me, honourable Member: in general, the employee is paid by his company. I therefore hope that the employer is informed of the earnings of its employees, in particular with a view to strengthening social dialogue. The argument, perhaps from an abuse of language, therefore seems somewhat misleading to me. I would also like to remind Mr Vercamer, whose work and precision I know, that the position he has expressed does not reflect that of his group, nor that of the IDU, since Mr Vigier explained in the Committee on Finance, I quote: "You propose with pragmatism to postpone the entry into force of withholding tax by one year, a measure which the Union of Independent Democrats (UDI) Group is in favour of, provided that its implementation is accompanied by "the definitive abandonment by the former majority of the idea of merging income tax with the generalised social contribution (CSG)". This allows me to make it clear that we have no intention of merging the IR and the CSG: I therefore believe that I have won your vote, like those of the members of your political group. Confidentiality, I said, is another major issue, in addition to the burden on businesses. The tax administration, it has rightly been pointed out, has worked a lot on tax at source, and the state has already made a lot of spending to implement it – 25 million euros of public money. On confidentiality, we must reassure our fellow citizens and national representation. The subject is that the employer will know, not only the income from work, but also the elements of family life, such as divorces, political commitment, union life, the collection of pensions, the holding of shares or housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u62	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u63	The employer should not be able to use this information in one way or another, on the understanding that it should not be given perverse intentions either. Mr Mélenchon, yesterday, stated in the Chamber that offenders, whatever they may be, should be punished, including employers who might have different claims as to the maximum amount of compensation. There may, I agree, be some ill-intentioned employers who must not have the opportunity to know the privacy of their employees, first because the Penal Code protects them, but also to avoid any pressure, including on wages. The administration, I believe, has responded well to this concern. If the employee does not want to hide all these elements from the employer – either because he prefers to have good relations with him or because he opts for payment under the conditions laid down by law – he will be able to pay his taxes through him; But he will also be able to opt for the neutral rate, which will appear on the tax sheet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u64	In the context of simplification!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u65	My colleague, only Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u66	This neutral rate can be used by everyone to pay their tax through the employer. And, as its name suggests, this neutral rate will guarantee confidentiality. In order to convince you completely of my remarks, I announced to the Chairman of the Finance Committee that I would have a model of the salary sheet and the tax sheet distributed, since we will have time to debate the measure, if the national representation agrees to shift its entry into force by a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u67	It is the ordinances as a whole that must be postponed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u68	We will thus be able to see, both on the spot and on the documents – as we say at the Ministry of Finance – that confidentiality, a legitimate concern, is preserved. Mr Bourlanges referred to a procrastination measure. I give him the freedom to speak, but, he will excuse me, I do not share this vocabulary: we take, I believe, the time of verification and reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u69	That's what I meant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u70	I hear you well, but I have not allowed myself to correct the words of the representative of the nation you are. In any event, the generalization of the monthly levy would, in my view, be a false answer. First of all, contrary to what is thought, not all French taxpayers have opted for the monthly levy: only 60% of them have made this choice. The monthly payment, moreover, is nothing more than a lag payment. In the present case, however, the important thing is to reflect on the modalities of a contemporary tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u71	Madam President, can we answer that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u72	[[Rites and exclamations on several benches]] [[Same movements]] Mr Le Fur, we have all morning, and if you want it all afternoon and even July 14th to debate: you know that, my love for you is undefinable. Don't make me put the veil on our lives, which must remain fully confidential! I know your language artifices, for having suffered them and sometimes enjoyed them. However, you will allow me to reply to Mr Bourlanges, who has raised important questions. The generalization of menstrualization, I said, does not seem to me to be the right answer; But we'll get back to it. Mr. Lecoq mentioned difficulties for the Ministry of Finance: it is not nice for officials, he said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u73	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u74	It's the opposite – unless he doesn't agree with the CGT, which would be a scoop... As soon as I took office, I first received the unions, and the representatives of the CGT, the first – I hope, Mr.Member, that you will understand both the symbol and my interest in the union organizations in my own ministry. All the unions have asked me to shift the levy to the source by a year, because they believe that the administration is not entirely ready. I stressed the enormous work done by the tax administration: it must be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u76	Indeed, there was a political command, passed by the country's highest political office, since it was the President of the Republic himself who announced this reform. I note, moreover, that if he had launched it at the beginning of his term rather than at the end, we would not need to discuss it since it would have already proved its effectiveness. Thus, while respecting the work of Bercy's director, his deputy director and all departmental officials, it was also my duty to listen to the unions, all of which have pointed out the problem that can arise if we recover a tax that is now collected at 97% differently. So I listened to the trade unions. These discussions have weighed in my decision to shift the implementation of the source sampling by one year. So let us not oppose officials and their unions: such lexical choices would be in contradiction with what you have been defending for some time or some time, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u77	The same unions must have asked you for additional resources too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u78	When Mr. Lecoq states that there is no lag, because of a historical rate, he is mistaken. The problem does not lie so much in the tax rate, since for 90% of taxpayers who pay the tax, it is only 0 to 10%, but rather in the tax base that is contemporary. It is therefore wrong to say that today's tax would not be so, and I believe that we can combat this argument, as we will do with the amendment by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who, as I said, nevertheless deserves to be studied. The quasi-contemporary tax can bring together the wrong sides of the tax at source, without the right sides. Mr. Coquerel spoke emphatically again of the cavalier that would constitute this article. I said how far I don't think he's a horseman. Among the other countries that have introduced the levy at source, none of us have returned to this measure: we are the only ones who continue to collect the tax differently – it is true because our taxation is based on the home.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u80	I answered you, Mr. Bazin, about the idea that we will not merge the CSG and the IR. This will reassure you, because this was your main argument. I thank Mrs Pires Beaune, who, in her remarks, noted that this was a postponement, due in particular to experimentation. The former government had put forward the idea of real-time experimentation by all tax collectors – large and small local authorities, large and small employers, social security agencies. Since the latter could not render its conclusions, which could inform the Government or the national representation, it seemed to me – perhaps by a common sense all provincial – that it was necessary to wait until the end of the experiment to conclude on what works or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u81	The same applies to the rest of the subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u82	Given that 97% of companies have received the so-called simplified declaration, the so-called DSN social declaration has yet to be sent to 3% of companies. The policy is always about the remaining 3 or 4 per cent, because they are the smallest companies. An additional argument to vote for the postponement will be that it will reach 100% of companies. I will not go back to what Mr Vercamer has said, which rightly refers to greater tax reform. You will see, honourable Member, that we cannot at the same time ask for a greater tax reform and wonder about the measures the Government intends to take with regard to local taxation, a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – CICE – or a reform of the tax on capital. As far as tax reforms are concerned, some of them will take us a few days and a few nights in the coming weeks and months. I hear it's never enough. However, we must begin with the beginning, especially with local taxation, which will be done by the President of the Republic at the National Conference of Territories on Monday, 17 July. Mr Le Fur, you once again referred to the idea of a collective budget. I would like to make it clear to you that the decision not to make a law of amending finance is not only a political choice of the Government but also a practical choice, in particular for the recapitalisation of Areva, which, I would remind you, could not wait beyond 30 July.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u83	It is still a lack of confidence in Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u84	As for the political choice, it is to consider that we must make those savings. Of course, demagogy about the amount and the areas where these savings can be achieved is still possible, but I have found that the presidential candidate we have supported was expecting far more savings than I am proposing this year. What would you have said, ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, if he had implemented his programme? The only difference is that not all went to the end. These savings, which are important, are made without any increase in taxation for the French. It is extremely important to stress this. However, I categorically reject the idea that the order on this subject is a horseman: it is not a horseman, it is a measure that is not simply a matter of the law of finance and which allows the French to reassure themselves with regard to the payment of taxes. That's the least we can do. Finally, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance referred to the reasons why we are not ready. I understand from his remarks, as well as from his speeches in committee, that he is not opposed to the idea of contemporary taxation. Since he summarized his questions, I will in turn summarize my arguments, but before I set out the three reasons why we propose the postponement, I would like to recall that the Government is in favour of the contemporary tax that we are now discussing the modalities. The first reason for the postponement is to answer the question of the actual or assumed burden of the source levy on enterprises, particularly the smallest of them. To find out more about it, we have asked the Finance Inspectorate, as well as an independent firm, for a report to be delivered in September or October. It will naturally be forwarded to the entire national representation, including the members of the Finance Committee – its chairman and rapporteur-general in particular. The report will also assess the alternative approaches proposed for source sampling, along with those proposed by the Government. This allows me to say, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Eckert may have ideas and opinions about what has or would have happened, if these same opinions led him to believe that his budget was sincere, they lead me to ask a few questions about the positions he may have held before you. The second reason why we are proposing the postponement of the levy at source is that we must wait for the end of the experiment, to draw conclusions and put in place a reform that cannot give rise to doubts for the taxpayer. You can't keep sending tax slips so you can't finally pay them. This never happened; It's not gonna happen. In any case, I will not be the minister who does experiments after deciding to launch a project definitively. We therefore propose to launch the source levy on 1 January 2019. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The third reason for this postponement is that as of January 1, 2019, 100% of companies will have received the simplification measure allowing them to levy tax at source. It is therefore right and strong of these arguments that I ask the national representative to authorize this postponement, in order to have gathered all these elements to put in place the contemporary tax on January 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u85	We come to the amendments. I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 14, 24, 97, 187 and 379, to delete Article 9. I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u86	The purpose of this amendment is to delete Article 9, the content of which falls within the scope of a finance law, deserves an open, serious, debate. It is not here, within the framework of an enabling law on the strengthening of social dialogue, that we must carry it out. Two difficulties appear to arise. First of all, tax at source may degrade the social link. Mr Minister, you ironically replied to our colleague Vercamer that the employer had to know his employee's income. You are wrong: an employee may have income supplements, which are not those of his or her work. His employer will know them from now on. This intrusion into privacy is a problem for us. Deduction at source therefore complicates the relationship between the employee and the employer that you place in the middle of the ford, by making it play not only a collector but also an arbitrator between the tax administration and its employee. This complexity of the social relationship goes the opposite of everything you've been singing to us for days with respect to this bill. Moreover, what about a society in difficulty that would put the key under the door? Who would collect the tax in the event of bankruptcy? Mr Minister, you have not responded to our remarks on this type of situation, which, unfortunately, we know well. [[Applause on a few benches of non-attached Members]] We therefore call for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u87	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u88	When you have a bad idea, you have to give it up. Otherwise, minister, you'll postpone it. It is, for us, a lesser evil since, at least, it will not apply on January 1, 2018. My fear is that you will postpone it not for reasons of substance, but essentially to protect the effect of reducing social charges on wages. On the other hand, after seeing a problem with the charges, you have the Finance Inspectorate working, which I am grateful for. The real subject, however, remains the relationship between the employee and his employer. If, today, the employee has only the tax agent as the focal point in tax matters, tomorrow, he will know a third, the company. This is very concretely the situation we will face: the bulletins of two people earning the same salary will no longer show the same amount at the bottom right, as today, since the salary will be reduced by the tax, varying according to the situation. For example, if an employee is married to someone who has a good situation, he or she will pay a large tax, so his or her income, at the bottom right of his or her payroll, will be lower. Since the employer and the staff department are aware of this situation, we will then get out of confidentiality completely: this subject will be discussed in front of the coffee machine. Minister, you understand the problem and, in order to solve it, you propose, with the neutral rate, to go towards the individualization of the tax. But these are elements of complexity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on various benches]] But our logic lies in the familyization of the tax: we associate the income and all the expenses of a household. Because of the levy at source, Minister, you are moving towards an individualization of the tax, contrary to the principles of the National Council of Resistance, which we have been protecting since the Liberation. You're slowly breaking these principles. Our group regrets that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u91	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u92	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing an amendment to delete all the provisions relating to the levy at source. If it appears at first glance as a simplification, in fact, it is not. The scheme involves particularly complex formalities, particularly for small employers, the self-employed, the liberal professions and individuals. Above all, as has been said on several occasions, its introduction undermines the protection of employees' privacy. It is not possible to estimate the amount of tax for a payroll until the composition of the home or the property situation is known. This means that employees have to reveal intimate elements. Thus, either the employer must have this information, or the process must be done in three steps: a drawdown at source, then an annual return made by the taxpayer, followed by a readjustment. You'll agree, it's a special way to simplify things! The Prime Minister announced a one-year postponement. One might wonder why: what does he fear? Is it because, since the project is not viable in its present version, for the unions as well as for the employers, it seems safer to abandon it in the immediate future? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that we are here to serve the general interest. We have the right, and even the duty, to form our own opinion, in order to take a decision in accordance with this general interest. That is why I call on you to vote for our amendment to delete Article 9, because the real urgency is not to review the way in which taxes are collected, but to know whether they are correctly calculated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u94	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u95	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 187.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u96	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u97	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u98	Like some of our colleagues, we believe that this debate should have taken place under the Finance Act. In addition, it seems to us more appropriate to suspend the application of the levy at source in order to give you real time to conduct your experiment, Minister, and to analyse the results objectively. We also propose that you make a comparison with automatic monthly payments, which would be linked to a simple tax modulation tool, in order to achieve your income tax contemporaneity objective. This amendment therefore seeks to delete Article 9 so that we can discuss it together in the framework of a finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u99	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, alternate, Mr Joël Giraud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, gave the committee's opinion on the identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u100	I shall start with Amendment No 14, tabled by Mr Chenu. Since the minister has already responded to the objection that the measure would be a legislative horseman, I will not dwell on this point. Only one reminder: why did you put the scheme not in a financial amending bill, but in this enabling bill? Section 34 of the Financial Law Organization Act specifically lists the measures that constitute the exclusive domain of the Finance Law, and the levying of tax at source is not part of it. It was therefore entirely possible for the Government to proceed as it did. I would add, and this applies to all the amendments that will relate to this subject, that if the Constitutional Council censors legislative riders, it checks to do so the link between the measures added to the text during the parliamentary debate and those originally included in it. Thus, from a purely legal point of view, an article originally contained in a government text is never censored. On the amendment tabled by Mr Le Fur, concerning the protection of privacy within the company, I will add two details, leaving it to the minister to give further explanations if he wishes. First of all, one notion that has not been mentioned here should not be forgotten: professional secrecy, the violation of which is punishable by five years' imprisonment and a fine of 300,000 euros. The elements we are talking about do not have to be mentioned in front of the coffee machine! Second, the employer will only have access to the tax rate provided by the tax administration. However, the same rate and remuneration can cover a wide range of situations. Thus, an employee earning 2000 euros per month and taxed at the rate of 6.9% can be: single without children; married, without a child, to a spouse who also receives a monthly salary of 2000 euros; married, with child, to a spouse receiving a monthly salary of 3000 euros; married with three children, the household also receiving more than 54000 euros of taxable property income. You are right to say that the earnings paid by the employer are not the only ones to report; But you see that, for the same information known to the employer – and in the worst case, mentioned in front of the coffee machine – the tax situations can be very varied.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u102	The draftsman spoke well about the issues before us. I don't know if Mr. Le Fur has gone to the coffee machine... but I hope that the content of our discussions will be repeated to him. Mr. Chenu raised an issue that should not be underestimated: confidentiality. Let us not hesitate to repeat our arguments on this subject, pedagogy being the art of repetition. [[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] We leave it to households that will receive their tax notices to determine how the tax is collected. This is not at all an attack on the National Council of the Resistance, much less against 18 June, even less against Charlemagne or prehistory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u103	A little respect, let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u104	It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u105	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Only Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u106	This is not a question of individualisation of the tax. On the basis of the tax notice, we can either opt for the rate indicated – the draftsman has explained the extreme diversity of situations that can be covered by a 2000 euro salary and a 6.9 % tax rate, and I doubt that the entrepreneurs spend an infinite amount of time trying to guess, from this data, how family life is going, but let us admit that some of them are so – either for a neutral rate that, by its very nature, does not say anything about the family situation or for an individual rate. Simplification also applies to families.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u107	What simplification?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u108	Today, one can decide that each member of the couple pays their taxes in proportion to their own income: each member is free to do so in his or her couple, in his or her household, but it is then the household that makes this calculation. In the future, it will be able to do so through this. This does not prevent family solidarity and the same tax will be recovered in respect of the household, but in proportion to the respective contributions of the spouses – this is what the mayor usually says during the marriage. Everyone may want to pay their company the tax at the individual rate. We leave this freedom to households, while of course preserving solidarity in the payment of income tax within the home. It should be noted that 90% of those who pay income tax are taxed at a rate of between 0 and 10%: such rates cannot be deducted from the family status of these taxpayers, their income, their transfers or their pensions. The question arises for the 10% of taxpayers taxed at very different rates, which open the way for very different interpretations on the part of a potential ill-intentioned employer. However, these people can choose either the neutral rate or the individual rate. Some might say it's not easy. I invite them to attend the demonstration that we will make in real time, on our website, in the Finance Committee, as I proposed to its chairman. You have noted that the tax administration has made tremendous progress, which everyone can be pleased with, in terms of how the tax is to be paid; You will see on that day that the new system is simpler than the current system. Mr. The Fur considered that we questioned many of the acquis and suggested that his group was against the simultaneousity of the tax. However, when I heard the chairman of the Committee on Finance and those of the members of this group who spoke in committee, I understood that the group approved the contemporaneity of taxation, but wondered how it was going. Mr Le Fur obviously has the right to have a divergent opinion, but it does not seem to me that the majority of the members of his group agree with this opinion. In short, we do not question the family nature of income tax; we even simplify the collection from families. Moreover, the contemporaneity of the tax allows people to pay it when they receive their money. Mr Chenu, the head of the company may consider that the entire income is not included in the salary he pays, but what I was pleased to remind Mr Vercamer is that the head of the company knows the salary he pays: I understand that there is a difference between salary and income. We agree that the salary is paid by the head of the company. A final argument is that two persons receiving the same remuneration will have two different wages depending on their tax rate and family life. In fact, the future payroll, for which I have allowed myself to distribute the model in the Finance Committee, indicates the salary deducted from the tax, but also recalls the net salary. In any case, at the end of the day, we will have to pay the tax; and it seems to me that, in the eyes of the vast majority of our fellow citizens, it is easier to do so at the time when we get the money than with a lag. Everyone can understand that. I remember when I started working after my studies; the following year, one can have surprises, and very great difficulties when one is not lucky to have parents in a position to contribute to the payment of the tax; In this case, one is obliged – as I did – to borrow to pay his taxes. The question may also arise for pensioners, in the event of death in the family. Contemporaryity is therefore a source of simplification for taxpayers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, the French who have not chosen the monthlyization tend to overestimate the tax they will pay, so that they over-save, which means so much less consumption for them. When they pay "on-line", they do not need to build up this precautionary savings; They can either save or consume – which is good for the French economy too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u109	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u110	Mr Minister, you are a technical answer, but you are not addressing the fundamental problem of withholding tax: the privatisation of taxes. But that is also what you are expected to do, since it is your administration. As soon as one moves to taxation at source, one "secondizes" the entire tax administration. You said that we were the only ones who did not do so. I do not know if we are the only ones, but, in any case, France can pride itself on still having a state that stands still, and which, moreover, has characteristics other than those of the countries that have been taxing at source for several decades: a state that is based on republican principles, including that of consent to tax. For all these substantive reasons, this tax at source is radically different from the possibility of a contemporary tax that would continue to be dealt with by the tax administration, seeking more efficiency and solving the problem of mismatch through computer advances. You don't answer that question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u111	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u112	I will not speak to Mr Darmanin, because I feel that he likes to listen to himself, but that he is not able to hear our arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u113	Ah ah ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u114	I will therefore speak directly to you, ladies and gentlemen, the Members sitting on all benches. As for the substance, there are three points of real concern. First, recovery is not at all simplified, on the contrary: there will be different choices, which will complicate matters even more and for the administration and for the taxpayer. The second problem is confidentiality. Even if the exact situation of the person is not known, it will be so in a global way and assumptions will be possible. The third is the cost of recovery for the company, which will represent several billion euros extra. If you want to help businesses and lighten their burden a bit, you are doing exactly the opposite! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on various benches]] This, however, deserves a more in-depth examination and a real substantive discussion, which will have to take place, not with regard to a labour law, but within the framework of a finance law. We, in any case, do not want to be held hostage to the Government's grocer's calculations. The gain of purchasing power that it gives the French hope will be ephemeral and, in reality, utopian.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u115	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u117	There was a time when, when we sat on those benches, it was a shame to be applauded by the National Front.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u118	Is that your only answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] No! I'll answer you, don't worry. But there was a time, not so far away where, when I sat on these benches, it was a shame to be applauded by the National Front. I'm just seeing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u120	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] No moral lesson, Judas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Unlike you, Madame Le Pen, Judas will remain in history. I did not know, Madam Chair, that we were again in general discussion, but I will respond to the arguments that are opposed to me with great pleasure. In particular, I would like to reply to Mr Coquerel's, a very important political argument. Thank you for noting that I could provide technical answers, Mr. Coquerel. In fact, you're right, I didn't weigh on the political argument, and I'm sorry if you thought I was running away. Irrespective of your willingness to fully reform taxation, a political vision that we do not share, your main argument is that private individuals should be delegated the task of setting taxes. That's not the case. It is indeed the tax administration which sets the rates, which it transmits to enterprises and therefore to individuals; and it is with her that you will make your appeal. It is not the companies that will set the rates: it is the finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u122	But they're gonna take it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u123	You also did not answer the question of whether the principle of tax contemporaneity represents an improvement. I think it's better, and we're a lot to think about. The majority of French people think it's better. We can discuss the modality, but do we agree on the principle of contemporaneity? We propose, in the tax at source – and that is why we are conducting further studies – whether it is companies or local authorities that are this third party. We have the right to imagine other modalities, such as banks or many other things. It is also a social measure to allow you to pay your tax when you receive your money. You mention the case of people who might be in a mismatch; I think of everyone who has a negative lag. There are people who are less affected the following year, because they are unemployed, for example, because they have lost their jobs or have difficulty. So it's better for them to pay tax when they earn their income, rather than the year after.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u124	We were talking about the tax administration!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u125	The tax administration remains the tax administration. It sets the rates, settles the tax and will be in contact with the citizens, in the event of control or challenge. Mr Di Filippo, I will not go back to your argument of the "a few billions" that would be borne by companies. It is precisely because there is a question about the additional burdens that we are ordering assessments. We believe that the former government that proposed this solution to Parliament has not documented exactly the cost to businesses. We're going to ask. In this respect, constructive amendments have been tabled, notably by Jean-Louis Bourlanges, and the subject has been raised in the Finance Committee. The report and the tests that will be at your disposal will make it possible to determine not a few billion, because a few billion that is a lot...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u126	Several billions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u127	Several or a few billion...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u128	We can't vote until we know how much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why we propose the postponement!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u130	I shall give the floor to Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who has asked for the floor. The importance of the debate justifies this exception; But, for the following amendments, I shall return to the habits that prevail in this house, namely two speakers for opposing opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u131	I will start by reminding you of the rules. As the minister took the floor, it could be considered that I also had the right to speak. But I'm not asking for an exception. The mode of perception, Minister, is very important. History must be called together to realize it. That other countries have imagined tax at source has to do with the nature of relations within the State, not with the tax technique. A federal state will more easily create a tax at source than a unitary state, since the allocation of the amount of the tax is immediately perceptible in a unitary state, which is not the case in a federal state where several tax systems can be juxtaposed. For us, French, the construction of the state and the collection of taxes, it is the same process. It was from the moment when there was a tax that the kingdom no longer saw the king's recipes. But perception and rate is the same thing. You said, a moment ago – it must have been a lapsus – that the administration set the rate. No, it's the National Assembly! But the fact of perceiving it yourself changes everything. It took ten centuries to achieve this result – ten centuries to get tax collected and everyone pays it. The State collects it because it is the national representation that sets the rate. In this particular case, you will collect the tax in the business. Of course, it's not the poor boss who's going to have fun filling out everyone's tax slips. He will do this as he does for accounting: he will entrust it to a company. That is why the tax at source, to which we are opposed, amounts to privatisation and the farm system. At some point, it is private companies that collect the tax. That is the point on which we disagree with you. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As far as tax contemporaneity is concerned, why not? This is being discussed. It is not a question of political philosophy. On the other hand, to be perceived by the State is a matter of substance. We defend the state in all circumstances, no matter what. For France is as much its people, its culture as its State. Its particular contribution to the history of Europe is the formation of a united State and a unitary State – that is why the Republic is said to be one and indivisible. That, Mr Minister, is why we will probably vote on Mr Woerth's amendment just now.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u133	What a success!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u135	Mr Mélenchon, this is a very good reasoning which I do not think is right. On one side of the House, I am told that it will cost companies money, on the other, if it is the farm, that it will bring back to companies. The logic would be that if other companies come to help businesses, then it would be an additional economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u136	We are right and Mr. Mélenchon is wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u137	On the other hand, I hear what President Mélenchon is saying and, if I have spoken badly, I would like to clarify my remarks. Of course, it is the national representation that sets the country's tax policy and discusses it, but it is the tax administration that will make it possible to distinguish individual rates on the basis of the finance law. The issue of confidentiality is linked to the setting of these individual rates. It is after these are fixed that the companies and above all the employees will be informed. The idea is not to separate powers on this very specific point. With regard to the example you have taken from the United States, in my opinion, it serves you. There is not, on the one hand, federal states and, on the other, nation states like ours, to which we are all very attached: in the United States, there are both. You have a rate that allows a tax at source and a tax like ours. I'm not sure we can make the parallel between the federal state and the nation state. I would also like to reassure everyone. The "poor boss", to use the expression of Mr Mélenchon, of which I did not know that this was the lexical field, already has taxes which he pays or which he is, in any case, the vector, whether VAT, CSG or a number of social contributions. "Taxes and taxes", he already does, like border companies for those who do not live in France. Finally, the company does not make any tax slips, to use your expression. She's not gonna privatize. Each will receive this sheet, and the individual rate will be set by the tax administration. If you have a challenge or control, it is not the company that will. The reasoning was good, but he had gone on bad bases.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u138	As agreed, I give the floor to Mr Sébastien Jumel, before we proceed to the vote on the identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u139	It's been a little over an hour and a half since we've been trying to fall asleep on a decision, which is already being made, to postpone the collection at source, notably by referring to the need to carry out evaluations and tests, whereas, for three days, on a subject that is going to push the lives of employees, when we asked for impact studies and evaluations, we were sent back to the ropes. We are asleep for two hours, while the minister before us is considering, without going through the law of amending finances, to carry out an unprecedented bleed in the public services of the State. The savings announced – you have to read the press to learn them – will harm our territories, jostling forgotten territories. You're going to explain to me how, by saving money on justice, you're not going to go after the local courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u140	This has nothing to do with the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u141	You will explain to me how, by making savings on the Ministry of the Interior, by pretending not to touch the staff, you will not question the material and real estate means of gendarmerie and police in our territories. You will explain to me how, by saving on the defence budget, you are not going to weaken the military's means of intervention in a context that is known to be profoundly difficult. You will explain to me how, by making 50 million euros of savings, you are not going to question cultural projects that are yet expected in our territories. You promise us to do all of this, without a debate in Parliament, without a law of amending finance. And, for two hours, we're asleep on a technical measure. It is illustrated, once again, that when speaking of secondary subjects, the Government avoids mentioning important subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u142	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u143	I would like to remind our colleagues that we are debating clause 9 of the enabling bill to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue and not the advance and cancellation orders presented by the minister yesterday in the Finance Committee. So they don't have to be debated this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u144	I have before me two amendments, Nos 177 and 282, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u145	The purpose of this reform of withholding tax is to eliminate the one-year lag between income collection and tax payment. However, as has been said, under the guise of simplification, it risks, in reality, creating more complexities and difficulties than solving them, for businesses and taxpayers. I would like to point out that our tax administration has already largely modernised and simplified the way in which this tax is collected, through pre-filled declarations or monthly payments, so that we can now achieve a recovery rate of more than 98 %. The negative effects for taxpayers in the event of income changes from year to year are already largely mitigated by the monthlyisation that should be generalised. On the other hand, for companies, while simplification is the main word of this enabling law, the implementation of the levy at source, even if delayed, will lead to additional burdens, in terms of organisation and working time, without any creation of value. It will weigh even more heavily on TPEs and SMEs. Finally, tax at source is itself a temptation or a risk. I trust that you will not succumb, Minister, to the temptation to merge the income tax, which is progressive and calculated on a family basis, with the CSG, which is individualized and proportional. But we must never prejudge the future in tax matters. You may not be eternally on these benches,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u146	That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u147	... and we would prefer that this possibility does not exist, because it would be an unprecedented tax earthquake for the middle classes, while income tax is concentrated on only 45% of households. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In substance, the individual responsibility of our fellow citizens, which is dear to the President of the Republic, and the consent to payment of taxes seem to me to be equally important. These are the reasons why we propose the deletion of the device, rather than its postponement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u148	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u149	I call Mr Eric Woerth to support Amendment No. 282.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u150	My amendment complements the one that has just been tabled in order to propose a different way of proceeding. Contrary to some, I am in favour of reducing the one-year tax-income gap, which creates uncertainty when resources change. In a modern state, efforts must be made to reconcile tax collection with income collection in the calendar. However, I do not believe that source sampling, which is not a bad idea, is the best possible solution. Of course, it is adopted in other countries, but often for a very long time and as part of a relationship to money, income and work that is different from that of the French. We can do something else. The nominative social declaration, DSN, which did not previously exist, is being installed; It could be used to transmit income data, not only to the social administration, but also to the tax administration, which would make the monthlyization of the taxpayer more contemporary. This would allow the taxpayer to continue to deal with the tax administration, without the intermediary of the business. Another advantage is that maritalization will be easier to achieve, as the administration, as a matter of principle, has data on the couple and the family, especially in the digital age and databases. This system will probably create a small lag, of the order of a month or two, but much less than the current twelve months. This solution concludes several debates on source sampling. First, it avoids the risk of a merger between the CSG and the income tax, to which we are totally opposed. It would be an extraordinary stumbling block that would change the nature of income tax, and many taxpayers would lose it. Then it solves the problem of confidentiality. Finally, let us not forget that besides the value of work, there is also the value of work: if one pays his tax at source, one will not be paid as one should be, because that is how the French read the last line of the payroll. But if they feel that they are earning less, it will create wage pressures in the company...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u151	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u152	... at a time when we are discussing the reform of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u154	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u155	These two amendments are different: one proposes the outright deletion of Article 60 of the original Finance Act of 2017 and the other, a new format. As far as the former is concerned, the opinion is necessarily unfavourable; He's completely out of the question...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u156	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u157	... since it is not even a matter of shifting the measure by one year, but of removing it. I will not repeat here all the arguments in favour of the source levy, which the Minister has put forward in his opening remarks. As for the amendment proposed by the chairman of the Committee on Finance, which the committee has also rejected, the proposed format also presents disadvantages. You go from twelve to about three months, but you keep the lag, because the source sampling is the only system really based on the principle of systematic contemporaneity. Other weaknesses can also be identified in the intermediate model that you suggest: for example, non-solvent people will always have the risk of difficulty recovering tax, which will no longer happen with the source levy. For these reasons – but other arguments could be put forward – the Commission issues an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u159	Of course, the opinion on the first amendment is unfavourable, because it is a question of deleting the operative part. As for the second, it poses three problems. The chairman of the committee could recognise this and, with the opening that I will propose to him, withdraw his amendment. First of all, Mr Woerth is moving faster than the minister – which I am not surprised about, given his personality – by proposing to switch to tax at source next year. The amendment is intended to change the arrangements for the levy as from 1 January, while the need for entrepreneurs to check everything and wait for the DSN to be operational everywhere is also mentioned. Mr President of the Committee on Finance, I should like to have this contradiction explained to me. Secondly, the proposed scheme does not, at first glance, solve the problem of contemporary taxation. You yourself said, with a great deal of honesty, that your solution would shift the tax collection by a month or two. The administration considers that the delay would be in the order of two to three months; We've got to check it out. Let us take an employee who, like many of our compatriots, receives an end-of-year premium in the form of a thirteenth month, and who is experiencing difficulties in paying the tax; With your system, it will pay in February or March the tax due for the month of December, a higher amount while it collects a lower income. It is therefore likely to be difficult to collect at source without having the advantages. That's the opposite of what we're looking for. Finally, the scheme does not exempt the employer from the obligation to report such income to taxes; It therefore does not address the issue of the administrative burden that this responsibility represents for companies. As I have already done in committee, I propose to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, whether he decides to withdraw his amendment or not – in which case I will issue an unfavourable opinion – to clarify the estimate of the delay period within the framework of the fact-finding mission, the conclusions of which will be communicated to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u160	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u161	We decided to stay out of the debate on this subject where there were only bad choices, but the proposal put on the table appears simpler, more respectful of tax confidentiality and more likely to reinforce its contemporaneity, to which we are in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u162	All right! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u163	I don't know what Mr Woerth's decision will be, or what case he'll make of our opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u164	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u165	I appreciated the position and argument of my colleague from the Republicans, Émilie Bonnivard. When you explain, Minister, that tax-related levies appear on the payroll, it should be noted that they are all at a single rate. The evolution you are proposing may lead not only to a merger of the CSG and income tax, but also to a movement towards a single rate, which would call into question the principle of proportionality of the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u166	That's clearly the risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Woerth's amendment seems to us to be a step backwards, a lesser evil compared to what is proposed to us. Indeed, the one-year lag does not change the fact that it is the source levy that is to be introduced. Between two evils, I choose the version that defends the role of the State. Mr Woerth's amendment is not technical; It clearly explains that contemporary taxation must remain in the hands of the state. Jean-Luc Mélenchon explained why we wish to do so; Therefore, we will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u169	Mr draftsman, do you maintain your position?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u170	I maintain the opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u171	Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u172	I would like to go back to Mr Coquerel's argument in order to avoid any misunderstanding. I do not believe that there is an amendment aimed at preserving the interests of the State and a proposal by the Government that would not preserve them. The tax will be collected by the Ministry of Public Accounts; It is on the basis of the financial laws passed by Parliament, often on the basis of a proposal from the Government, that taxation will be fixed; and it is the administration that will individualize the rates. Mr. Woerth's idea, as sympathetic as it may seem, not only does not challenge the Government's proposal for tax at source, but will also complicate the tax. The three-month lag will cause problems for individuals, especially the popular classes that pay income tax. Indeed, it is not those who have a lot of precautionary savings and high incomes that find it difficult to pay the tax; These are those who have low incomes, but who pay the income tax and have to come out of the money for it. This is the whole point of today's tax. The time lag introduced by Mr Woerth's proposal could put the most modest incomes at risk. In any event, we are against both the first and the second amendments, unless the chairman of the committee wishes to withdraw them. While he suggests that change should be organised on 1 January of next year, without experimentation, I propose instead to study and test his proposal in the framework of the report we have commissioned. We will have the opportunity to return to this question, armed with the conclusions of the study proposed by the ministry, in accordance with the amendment tabled in the Committee on Finance by Valérie Rabault, which I accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u173	Mr Woerth, will you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u174	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u175	Hold on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u176	I do not believe at all, minister, that the scheme that I propose would handicap low-income people. I don't see why that would be the case. Of course, from the point of view of contemporaneity, this system would be less pure than sampling at source; But if we're not in immediate contemporaneity, two months is better than twelve months! That would be a step forward. I believe in the value of work. Many people in France do not pay income tax; With the levy at source, when the value of his work had been negotiated with the boss, one will suddenly end up being paid the same thing, certainly net of tax, as the neighbour who does not pay, but who is paid less. This situation can generate wage pressures within the company, for external reasons, and it is not needed at this time. My proposal solves all these problems and preserves the face-to-face between the tax administration and the taxpayer. I therefore maintain my amendment. I note – and I am pleased – that you will conduct a study, but you will not necessarily do so with the necessary objectivity since you will already have the result. I therefore believe that we must vote for my amendment. Moreover, I observe that it provides several types of support: the new policy finally goes faster than you thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u177	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u178	I would like to alert you to the real implications of source sampling. For several years now, we have witnessed a general movement to reduce the number of people working in the regional branches of public finance and the Treasury. I am regularly questioned by my former colleagues in the Regional Directorate of Public Finance about this development. Dematerialization is progressing: it allows everyone to see more clearly about their taxes, which is a good thing. But it must not be done at the expense of public employment, otherwise the quality of public service provided by our regional public finance directorates, whose staff are highly qualified and advise our fellow citizens at best. The deferral of the levy at source should not transfer part of the work currently carried out by the State services to private enterprises. I have read in the press that in many countries which have adopted the levy at source, companies complain about the difficulties they are encountering as a result: when everything goes well, of course, the system works, but as soon as a difficulty arises, they must take steps which, in the present state of law, are not at their charge. This House has been discussing for several days the simplification of the right to the benefit of entrepreneurs, particularly in very small, small and medium-sized enterprises. But I do not see what this system would simplify: it is actually a great complexity for companies. Let's be lucid! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore propose, by this amendment, to delete paragraphs 1 and 3. The current tax system is already working well. Our tax administration is effective, and we can be proud of the public officials who work there. We must also consider strengthening it, because the French complain and believe that our tax justice is at two speeds. Indeed, as you know, the most affluent taxpayers, those who earn a lot of money, can find an arrangement, in a conciliation commission, on the amount of tax they should have paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u180	This amendment is a little paradoxical. Its adoption would lead to the entry into force of the levy at source on 1 January 2018, which is contradictory to the position your group has taken on this issue. I will respond briefly to the two points you made, Mr Bernalicis. First, as the minister said very well earlier, there will be no transfer of powers from the state to the company: it is always the tax administration that will give the levy rate to the company, which will therefore be simply a third party collector. This does not in any way reduce the prerogatives of the tax administration. Secondly, it is true that during the debates that have taken place in this House in recent days – and in recent nights – we have insisted on the need to simplify procedures for companies. You insisted on this concern, and you were right to do so, because it is the reason for the three-month experiment and the external audit that will be carried out. The postponement of one year from the date of entry into force of the source levy must give us the time to ensure that businesses will be able to collect income tax without placing too much burden on them. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u182	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u183	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u184	The amendment that has just been tabled by Ugo Bernalicis is simply a withdrawal amendment. By voting in favour of this amendment, we want to show our commitment to the exclusive role of the state in tax collection. You are right, Mr draftsman: it is apparently paradoxical, but it is a way of intervening in the debate, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u185	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u186	I would like to say to Messrs. Mélenchon and Quattenens...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u187	Mr. Bernalicis, not Mr. Quattenens!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u188	Mr. Bernalicis, forgive me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u189	It'll come, you'll remember our names!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u190	Certainly! I misappointed Mr. Quattenens, probably because he's from my area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u191	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u192	[[Laughs and applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I'm sinking into the mistake! Let me not say more about this. First of all, I have taken note of Mr Mélenchon's explanations: this amendment does not change his group's position on source sampling. You said, Mr Bernalicis, that you disagree with the idea that source sampling is a simplification measure. To attest to the complexity of this mechanism, you are alleging press articles about the difficulties that companies in the countries that have adopted it would face. First of all, I would like to point out that none of these countries has returned to this reform. Above all, I would point out that the French system will be simpler, because unlike other countries, we will introduce a nominative social declaration. This is an important difference compared to all other countries that have chosen the source levy: we will provide each company, for all employees, with this nominative social declaration. One of the reasons why we have decided to postpone the entry into force of this reform is that at present 97% of these declarations are ready, and that we do not want to change the system until that proportion is 100%. Even if there were only 3% or 4% of errors, small businesses would have to suffer; In this case, it would not be a simplification for them. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Your argument therefore does not hold: it may be complicated elsewhere, but with us, in France, it will be simpler.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u193	I have before me an amendment No 264 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 482. Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u194	First of all, I would like to take note of the Minister's response to those who believe that this section is a legislative cavalier. It is true that there is a tenuous but real link between the purpose of this bill and that of this article: indeed, the levy at source will have an impact on social dialogue. This bond, I repeat, is tenuous; To describe this article, I would therefore be tempted to invent a new term: it is not a budget rider, but a budgetary centaur, by reference to this fabulous being in which horse and rider are one. So you are right to say, Minister, that the levy at source would weigh on social dialogue: I give you notice. On the substance, Amendments Nos 264 and 265 have only one purpose: to give full scope to the experimental measures proposed by the Government. The first, No. 264, tends to specify that these experiments must be carried out on a charge and on a discharge basis. It should not simply be a matter of closing some gaps, but of really assessing whether the system is relevant or not. The second, No 265, aims in particular to clarify that the scope of these experiments should not be limited, and that either confirmation of the system or its development or abandonment should be considered. I repeat: the provisions of this article on experiments are entirely justified by the complexity of the problem and the erratic nature of each other's political positions on this subject. We cannot therefore apply the law now, nor abandon it at once, without debate. We need an in-depth review that leaves all possibilities open. This is the subject of amendment No. 264 on which the Government has tabled a sub-amendment. I am happy to accept this sub-amendment, but the most important one is the adjective "alternative" contained in Amendment No 265: all solutions must be considered, not just development solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u195	The Minister has the floor to support Subamendment No. 482 and to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u196	Mr Bourlanges, we have already dealt with this issue in committee, and I have taken note of the arguments you have put forward on this occasion. The Government makes an opening gesture by giving a favourable opinion to Amendment No. 264, subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We want to give you proof that we are going to examine all the assumptions. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has referred to an experiment only on the charge: no, we will examine all scenarios without a priori. It's your birthday today: I wouldn't want to deny you this pleasure! I therefore give an opinion in favour of the first of the two amendments tabled by Mr Bourlanges, provided that it is sub-amended. As for the second, I would like you to withdraw it, honourable Member, because it is contradictory to the first. Anyway, he's taking us to another direction. The first, sub-amended, will give the National Assembly every assurance that we will explore all the avenues, all the solutions that differ from the one proposed by the Government. We will provide you with all the information on this subject, Mr. Bourlanges, even before you begin the review of the finance bill, in which you can address the issue of tax at source under other conditions. I suggest to the majority that we respond to the Government's opening gesture and adopt successively Subamendment No 482 and Amendment No 264. As for Mr Bourlanges, I suggest that he withdraw Amendment No 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u197	The draftsman has the floor to give the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment and the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u198	Opinion in favour of the sub-amendment and the amendment provided that the sub-amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u199	Abstention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u200	I call Mr Bourlanges to support Amendment No. 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u201	As I explained, this amendment is linked to the previous one. Minister, I do not see why I would withdraw this amendment, which only increases the scope of the previous one. I understand that I will be defeated on this point, that this amendment will not be adopted, but I am referring to the term "alternative". It is not at all a matter, minister, of engaging you in a direction. I have my opinion on the source sampling, like everyone here. I was very impressed by what Mr Woerth said earlier and by his amendment: there are many possible solutions. That's why you have to keep an open line. I propose to clarify that the experiments should cover three scenarios: either the confirmation of the system, its layout, or its abandonment. You can't say it would lock anyone in a given path! This amendment testifies to our willingness to open up, and tends to give full meaning to the experiment you want to lead. Don't tie your hands: look at all the options. I know you're quite capable of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u203	Mr Bourlanges, we consider that Amendment No 264, as we have just adopted it, already contained interesting elements. Let me re-read the words he intended to add to clause 9 of this bill: "in order to test the positive or undesirable effects of the intended device." We consider this clarification sufficient, and we call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u205	Since Mr Bourlanges does not withdraw this amendment, I maintain the Government's unfavorable opinion. I assure you, honourable Member, that I am not the type to let my hands be tied, and that we will examine all other possible modalities: it is absolutely necessary. I will show you in the Committee on Finance, or even in a special meeting if you want to, that we will not only study all the possibilities, but also that the levy at source is simpler than Mr Woerth has said and that it does not appear in your speeches. I understand your questions; I should now like to show you what I am doing, because we will continue to work together in the Finance Committee on this subject. However, I would like to tell you that if we wait for national representation to be unanimous in reforming, we are not likely to move forward, when reforms are urgent in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u206	For our part, we will abstain!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u207	I have before me two amendments, Nos 288 and 92, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u208	This is an editorial amendment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u209	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u210	[[Applause on many benches in the FI group]] I note that all the speakers have spoken in a more or less critical way, but, unless I am mistaken, there is no colleague from the Republic on the move, which suggests that they are in expectation, and that is, after all, positive. One realizes that, both in terms of simplification and on substantive issues – who collects the tax, the state or the employer? And what about tax escalation? –, nothing is at the point. I wonder why we want to make all of this go through ordinances at all costs. In addition, this clause is a horseman who has nothing to do with the rest of the bill. The amendment therefore makes a reasonable proposal to postpone the application of Article 9 by deleting paragraph 2 – since I understood, in the course of the amendments and counter-amendments, that alternatives were possible without knowing too much where they would lead.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u212	It will not surprise anyone that the opinion is unfavourable, even if I understand your political position, my dear colleague. From a purely technical point of view, deleting paragraph 2 would be tantamount to deleting the request for a report to the Government on the initiative of our colleague Valérie Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u213	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u214	Favourable to the drafting amendment by Mr Coquerel, against the amendment by Mr Coquerel. I will repeat the same argument: the deletion of paragraph 2 would make it impossible to submit the report, which was requested, in particular, by Mrs Valérie Rabault in committee, while it would allow your argument, Mr Coquerel, to be fed into if his conclusions proved to be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u215	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u216	I'm not resisting your call, Mr. Coquerel. Professional HRD for twenty years in the pay trades, I've been listening attentively to all the interventions since this morning, and I'm also going to share my experience with you. For twenty years, I have been managing salaries and therefore employees. My job is to ensure that people are all well paid at the end of the month, with fairness and justice. But it must be noted that this is not an easy job and that it is still becoming more complex with the work we are doing today – I agree with you on this point. However, for the past two years, we have put in place the nominative social declaration, which has enabled us to save time by automatically processing 30 certificates. This is a great step forward for our services. The tax at source, as proposed, goes through this. Of course, I agree with the minister when he says that it still takes time to implement it, because the dematerialization of the required certificates and declarations is not entirely carried out in companies. Yes, companies need time to digest this modernization of our business. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] But another point seems very important to me. For twenty years I have been dealing with staff who receive very small salaries, I see monthly garnishments falling on my desk, a sign that the employees concerned are no longer able to pay their credits, their taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u217	We have to raise wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u218	[[Applause on many benches in the FI group]] This is a matter of the social treatment of the tax. However, I believe that the employer would benefit from not knowing all the difficulties faced by the employees or from entering into their privacy...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u219	We agree on that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u220	[[Applause on many benches in the REM group]] ...which is precisely what dematerialisation and the levying of tax at source allow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u221	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u222	[[Applause on many benches in the REM group]] I am quite surprised by all the reactions to the one-year experiment proposed to us. Of course, the method is new, but I find it interesting. And then it's good news because, whether you're for or against the source sampling, this experiment can only give you arguments. Therefore, let us let the experiment be done and stop speculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u223	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u224	What about the explanations of vote on the article?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u225	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I have not received any such request.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u226	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u227	That's right, Madam President. Several hands have risen and those following our debates know that the examination of each article concludes with an explanation of vote. You've deprived us of it with authority. We call for the exercise of this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u228	Mr Mélenchon, since no request for explanation of vote had been received, I put this rule to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u229	I raised my hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u230	We have to look at the Chamber, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u231	It would be better if Mélenchon presided!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u232	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 327 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u233	Madam President, I confirm that I, too, raised my hand for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u234	It's not up to the presidency to follow the advice of an official! It is not the technocrats who will enforce the regulation! Why don't you let him preside while we're at it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u235	A little respect, my dear colleague. Please proceed, Mr. Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u236	I continue to be surprised at the way this session is going, but that is the case. The reasons for this additional article are as follows: it is a question of providing for the reimbursement of the exemptions from social contributions which a company has received if it carries out economic redundancies deemed to be without real and serious cause. The amendment proposes that the payment of the research tax credit and the employment competitiveness tax credit be suspended and that the judge be able to request a partial or total refund. Indeed, how could we accept that such tax gifts are used to enrich shareholders when employees are unfairly dismissed? I would like to point out that the legislative cavalier that we have just adopted under singular conditions would have deserved to be included in an amending finance law, which the Government has sought to escape by means of manoeuvres aimed at avoiding a real debate, including on the substantive issues, namely the austerity measures that your Government is proposing and the tax measures that will lead to the distribution of an additional 3 billion to the richest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u238	The amendment is somewhat out of line with the only topic of source sampling and its postponement, and it poses three problems. First of all, with regard to the tax advantages of the CICE and the research tax credit, I would point out that they are not currently conditional and that the general objectives set by law in this area are not binding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u239	[[Smile]] I am ready to accept your sub-amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u240	Secondly, the amendment is contrary to the Constitution, particularly with regard to the guarantee of rights. Indeed, tax claims under the CICE and the research tax credit, including those in the seed, which must be recalled, allow for pre-financing and are covered by the guarantee of rights. Returning to this and providing for their possible reimbursement would call into question acquired rights, in violation of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. Finally, this amendment does not provide for any temporal clarification: should reimbursement take place at the first instance, or should a final decision be expected? That's not indicated. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u242	The amendments introducing additional articles after Article 9 are not directly related to the issue of withholding tax at source. I will therefore reply to their authors that it is necessary to be consistent: either Article 9 is a rider, and in this case it is unnecessary to add small horses, or it is not one. I hear the political argument, but it seems to me curious to denounce a rider while having the cavalry given! I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u243	That's the shepherd's answer to the shepherdess!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u244	[[Smile]] It's worth a hoof!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u245	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u246	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I am going to vote in favour of this amendment for the sake of consistency, although I have heard that it is a matter of form. I had indeed tabled similar amendments during the 2017 review of the Finance Bill, which I had maintained despite the government's unfavorable opinion at the time. In my constituency is the last tobacco factory in France. Imperial Tobacco, whose SEITA is now a subsidiary, has decided to close it and relocate production to Poland, leaving 239 employees on the tile. Some of them have already experienced several dismissals, after the closure of the sites in Lille, Nantes and Riom. I do not know whether the adoption of this amendment would violate the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, but what I am sure is that the right of employees is being violated today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u247	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u248	On Amendment No 327 as corrected, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u249	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I support the Communist comrades' amendment. And then I want to go back to Article 9, because we were not allowed to speak before it was adopted. I'm new, naive, I'm disembarking, but I still find this long discussion somewhat surreal: is it urgent at the beginning of the summer to discuss the tax at source? We know that today there are 60 billion to 80 billion tax evasions, which the state could recover, and 1000 billion at European level. Yesterday I quoted the case of Gérard Mulliez – even if I don't want to stick to him – who, together with his family, places a lot of money in Belgium. Google pays only 8% of corporate tax, while small and medium-sized enterprises pay much more. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and on some benches of the NG group]] Neither Emmanuel Macron in his speech at Versailles nor Édouard Philippe in his general policy speech addressed this issue. However, it seems to me that national representation should give priority and urgent consideration to how this money can be recovered in order to give air, not to multinationals, but to employees and businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Same movements]] I propose once again that the agenda be completely revised so that orders against finance can be made urgently. I trust your solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u250	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u251	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr Mélenchon, you have had completely inappropriate words towards some officials of the House who, since the beginning of the week, allow us to debate day and night. This debate is long, sometimes tedious, and everyone wants to participate, which can sometimes be complicated – especially since for many of us it is the first public debate. That's why I wanted to thank them all on our part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u252	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] We're defending the civil servants! What about the point freeze? Pay them better!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u253	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u254	Mr Ruffin, we are going to study the court's judgment on Google, which the state will appeal in order to preserve its tax interests. Rest assured, Mr. Ruffin, and I'm sure you'll have the same vigour to bring the words of the Ministry of Public Accounts as to denounce this first judgment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u255	It's not our role!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u256	We will have the opportunity to talk about it again, but you are right to stress this: all forms of fraud, whether social or fiscal, constitute infringements of the Republic. The money thus diverted is as much less for the citizens and for the functioning of public services. However, rather than attacking big business leaders who, in my region in particular, have created many jobs, you should attack people who can defend themselves. Mr Mulliez, as I know, is not a Member of Parliament. It is true that it is easier to choose its targets outside the Chamber. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] I do not have any particular connection with this company manager, nor with any other, but he has created many jobs, everywhere in France, and we owe him a minimum of respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u257	You're not answering the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u258	I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u259	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] I have not finished, Mr Ruffin, suffering that in democracy one can answer you; I feel like I pissed you off, though that wasn't my goal. Justice must pass, of course, and the tax administration must be intractable to everyone, including entrepreneurs, but that does not prevent a minimum of respect for people, especially those who create wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u260	I put to the vote Amendment No 327 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u261	It's getting tighter!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u262	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 362 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u263	This amendment extends the previous one. Mr rapporteur, it seems to me inappropriate, and at least audacious, to call for the help of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights to refuse an amendment to control the CICE. Tax niches in our country amount to 83 billion euros, and the largest of them, the CICE, weighs 20 billion on public accounts. In this regard, 2019 looks like a black year: the effects of the CICE will then be combined with those of the reduction of social contributions at an additional cost of 25 billion euros, the total reaching 1% of GDP. I am surprised, moreover, that my colleagues in the Republic on the move or the Government, who are so quick to call for budgetary rigour, are not more concerned about the effects, for our country and for the public accounts, of the enormous gabegie that will be caused by the shift from one system to another. To finance this burden, we are going to cut off housing policy, we are going to cut off public services, we are going to worsen the territorial divide and we are going to lose solidarity by cutting off public aid for development. This amendment proposes to put in place a right of control over the use of the CICE. It is not currently under control, so it is not known whether the device is effective or whether it is reaching its target. Public money goes into the margins of companies and dividends paid to shareholders, but obviously not in employment. And when a job is created or saved, it costs 200000 euros of public money, which is quite a considerable amount. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the FI group]] We are told that it is difficult to control the use of the CICE. But an unemployed person who is compensated by a job centre or an association which collects public money must be held accountable. In the name of what would the companies benefiting from the CICE escape?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u265	Mr Little, so bold as it seems to you, the lexical field that I used at the moment was more suitable to evoke the guarantee of rights. As for the amendment, I am against it, for the same reasons as those mentioned above.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u266	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u267	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u268	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u269	Mr Minister, thank you for defending the creators of wealth, because it will give us a first thread to draw in order to solve the riddle that I submitted to our colleagues last night. For those who would not have followed, I would remind you that a plan to dismiss 937 people is under way at Auchan, which, given the new creations, represents a net loss of 500 jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u270	It's been ten times since you said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u271	However, this company has just made a profit of 14%,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u272	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u273	...and its dividends increased this spring by 74%. We are told that the social plan will be endowed with EUR 50 million, but – and here is the link with the amendment we are considering – the same company will receive this year, it seems to me, EUR 88 million from the competitiveness-employment tax credit. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] I therefore come back to my riddle, which I submit again to my colleagues in the La République group on the move and to the minister: in the face of such economic aggression – and I assume that you are as revolted as I am to see a healthy group thus abolishing posts – what provisions in this bill could they allow to interpose between the aggressor and the employees attacked? Thank you in advance for your answer, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u274	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u275	Mr rapporteur, as I appreciate the faces, I thank you for your staggered reading of the Declaration on Human and Citizen's Rights. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Minister, in a way, you have criticized me for using the same methods as you by defending a legislative cavalier. There is a difference, however: your proposals related to the general tax code when my proposals were relevant to the labour code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u276	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 380.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u277	The purpose of this amendment is to defend the temporality of the personal services tax credit. While 3.5 million French households are now using such services, in order to benefit from the tax credit, a cash advance is needed, which unfortunately cannot be met by a number of people, particularly the elderly and those with modest incomes. An immediate application of the tax credit would help to relieve the cash flow of these households, thereby reviving consumption and job creation in a very promising sector. This amendment therefore calls for the preparation of a report to assess the effects on the use of a mechanism for the mobilisation of tax claims by banking bodies corresponding to the personal services tax credit. [[Applause on a few benches in the LC group]] We hope, Minister, that you will agree to examine this mechanism, with a view to bringing into line the temporality of the income tax and the tax credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u279	Dear colleague, I do not see the relationship between your amendment and clause 9 of the bill we are considering. On the merits, one may wonder about the value of intermediation in this area. Not only does the intermediation tend to increase the system, but it is questionable whether, given the relative small amounts involved, intermediaries would be interested in pre-financing the personal services tax credit, as they do for businesses in the CIR and CICE. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u280	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u281	Unfortunately, the Government is opposed to this amendment dear to Mr. de Courson. The idea is interesting and seems generous, but at first glance it goes more in the sense of complexity than in the simplification to which we aspire. I propose that you withdraw the amendment – if not, I call on the House to reject it – even if we are going to resume this discussion in the finance law, when we have carefully studied the technical implications, particularly for households that receive little of this tax credit. Let us not elucidate this matter and think about it, because, as the rapporteur has said, he is asking questions that we will answer more fully when we look at the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u282	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u283	These notions of mobilisation of tax debts and tax credit remind me of the 2.2 billion euros of tax rebate granted by the State to the Société générale following a very media case, that of Jérôme Kerviel. I had read in the press that Bercy, on behalf of the State, had taken steps to recover them. Indeed, as you know, the Société générale has unduly benefited from this tax credit in so far as not only the initial amount of the loss has never been proven, but it has even been proved, on the contrary, that the Société générale had lied – I hope not to be sued for defamation; We'll see about it. Mr Minister, when we are actively looking for money, what about the recovery of this EUR 2.2 billion? Such a sum would remove a nice thorn from your foot.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u284	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u285	The amendment was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u286	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u287	First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for having withdrawn the amendment; I promise him and Mr. de Courson to come back to the matter, either in particular, or during the consideration of the finance bill. As for your question, Mr Bernalicis, I do not want to avoid it. Of course, we want to recover money for state funds – that goes without saying. All I can say, and I think this information will interest you, is that the tax procedure continues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u288	We have finished with the amendments after Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u289	What about my riddle?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u290	The meeting was suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u291	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u292	We come back to the amendments on the additional article after Article 3. Last night, the House adopted Amendment No 298. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u293	Amendment No 298 proposes to remove the reason for the threat to the competitiveness of the company in order to carry out economic redundancies. We believe that using such an argument to make a decision before the situation which should lead to an economic dismissal manifests itself is not wise. We are opposed in general. Of course, competitiveness is a valuable asset; There is still a need to agree on what the word means. On competitiveness, there are first external circumstances: overall economic policy – and the President of the Republic is right to state in his interview with West France today that Germany's economic policy has profoundly distorted the economic conditions under which all European companies operate and that imbalances have been created. Secondly, there is the overall competitiveness of the site France: it depends on public services, on equipment, on the level of education, on the availability of high-skilled personnel – as many arguments as we generally deploy in order to attract foreign companies and capital on our soil. Finally, there are internal factors within the company. There are two categories. Firstly, the competitiveness of the use value of production, of the goods that are put into circulation; This competitiveness depends exclusively on the investments that are made, the machines that are acquired to perfect the object itself and improve its use value: that is why we have been able to speak of a time of "trend of the rate of profit", linked to the need to run constantly after the most advanced technique. So there remains a single parameter on which to weigh – since the improvement of the use value is obviously reflected in investments – it is the exchange value, i.e. wages. This means, in the end, that it is a matter of protecting competitiveness by abolishing posts, in order to increase the profitability of the company. That is why this cannot be an argument until the decision on economic dismissal is taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u295	Mr Pietraszewski, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u296	The amendment tabled by Mr Mélenchon has been given an unfavourable opinion by the committee. The case-law has long and consistently recognized that an economic dismissal resulting from a reorganization necessary to safeguard the company is founded, which does not cover any type of reorganization, since the company must demonstrate that safeguarding its competitiveness is at stake. Case law is very useful on this subject; This explains the committee's unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u297	I call on the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, the spokesman for the Government, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u298	The Government's opinion was unfavourable. If I hear President Mélenchon's concerns, and if I share them, it must be borne in mind that, when a head of a company insists that his company will face a severe difficulty, having the ability, even if it is painful, to carry out one or two dismissals may, in the long run, save the company and in some cases avoid a plan to safeguard employment, in others, the closure and liquidation of the company. The adoption of this amendment, which is concerned with the defence of one or more employees at a given time, could thus have the effect of weakening the entire enterprise, i.e. employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u299	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u300	Yesterday, late in the night, in order to oppose our desire to ban stock market dismissals, we referred to the Constitution. Today, we are told that sometimes it can be healthy, for economic vitality, to carry out redundancies on grounds of competitiveness. I want to share an anecdote with you. On Christmas Eve, P&amp;O announced in a three-line telex in English that it was withdrawing from the Transmanche Link on the grounds that its rate of return was less than 8%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u301	Very good example!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u302	Its presence was, however, consubstantial to the existence of the line and to the economic vitality of the Dieppe territory. Called by the Prefect, the CEO of P&amp;O did not even sit down and justified his position by explaining that the profitability objectives he had set had not been achieved, so his company was not sufficiently competitive. He confirmed his withdrawal and went as he had come. This is what creates despair, enormous damage in families, in the territories, which breaks employment in a sustainable way! If you do not take this economic and social reality seriously, the change you seem to want to embody will be made in continuity, with old recipes that will produce the same effects each time. We believe that it is vital to reverse the economic logic – but I mean that you are disturbed by this – in order to finally achieve an economic system, at the service of the development of employment, of the territories and of the preservation of human dignity. That is why we will vote for this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u304	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u305	Last year, I defended a box installed in Saint-Vincent-de-Mercuze, in the vicinity of Grenoble, which made aluminium trays, Ecopla. She found herself completely looted by a thug boss. The employees gave the alert, seized an accountant, went to the supplier to reconstitute the aluminum stock, dressed their costume to approach one by one the customers: they wanted to perpetuate their job by taking over the factory in the form of a cooperative society. For the little anecdote, they asked for two years to be received at the office of the Minister of the Economy, Mr. Macron. The rogue boss was received, but not the employees. Let's move on. They were keen to take their business back in the form of a cooperative society, and we supported this request in the commercial courts. It turns out that it is an Italian fund, Cuki, that was preferred: for commercial courts, made up of 100% bosses, seeing employees take over the company is not natural. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This amendment, which provides that in the event of closure, sale or judicial liquidation, employees have a right of pre-emption to form a cooperative, is a way of helping employees, but above all to allow companies to continue to exist, despite the main predator who is sometimes, and often, the shareholder.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u307	On Amendment No 215, I have a request from the FI Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u308	The issue is difficult and often painful for employees who have sometimes spent many years in a company, invested in it and are particularly attached to it. However, this issue goes beyond the scope of the consultation with the social partners. However, I would remind you of an element of law: in the event of a non-resumption of the establishment, the employer, when convening the works council on the proposed dismissal, must explain the possibilities of taking over the establishment by the employees. The committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u309	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u310	Employee recovery is a real subject. In the case of Ecopla, the commercial court did not at the time have the capacity to decide to retain the employees' offer. It turns out that since the "Macron Law", for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, the commercial court can now take this dimension into account. However, this amendment goes too far and would weaken the text: by laying down the principle of a right of priority, without specifying the conditions, of preemption by employees in relation to another offer, it introduces discrimination which would be declared unconstitutional. While the issue raised – allowing employees to form a cooperative – is perfectly defensible, the Government's opinion is unfavourable: this amendment lays down a principle far too broad in relation to the feasibility and respect of property law, which is, today in France, a constitutional right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u311	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u312	We have had this debate several times in the previous legislature. In fact, it was in the Hamon Consumer Bill that we addressed this issue. We were very hesitant, but there was a fairly cross-cutting desire in the House to create a right of preemption for employees in the situations defined by this amendment. The only advance we have achieved is a right of information for employees. It is clear that this is not going far enough. It is realized that when the law aimed at regaining the real economy, known as the Florange law, is implemented in a situation such as this, the owners of the site, who are subject to a search for buyers, block any recovery, including by employees in the form of SCOP. They consider that the continuation of the activity would lead to competition with respect to the off-site activities or the ownership group of the site. We will have to move forward on this issue. We are now considering the possibility for local and regional authorities to have a right of preemption. A bill is being prepared. This would allow them to pre-empt an industrial site, for example, and then entrust it to a cooperative society.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u313	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u314	In our view, the right of preemption is one of the fundamental freedoms that employees should be given. Whatever differences we may have on the notion of ownership and its limits, admit that in this particular moment when a company is on sale and employees are asking to become owners, there is no confiscation of ownership. The right of preemption prevents aberrant situations. In Ecopla, the commercial court preferred to sell the machines to an Italian group, which at the same time acquired the order book and therefore the customers, all in order to pay the social debt corresponding to the dismissal of the employees! This decision has a logic from the point of view of the commercial court, but it is absurd from the economic point of view: the customers agreed to keep their orders if the employees took over the company! This right of preemption gives flexibility. It sometimes saves a company, keeps it alive and guarantees its production, thus contributing to the preservation of the environment. Think that today, the only production capacity for aluminium trays is in Italy: the container in which your Japanese caterer delivers your lunch comes from there! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Finally, the right of preemption should speak to the Gaullists who, for years, defended participation. Perhaps you will adhere to this particular form of participation – a step above it, I agree – since it affects the property itself? The cooperative is the birth of collective ownership of the means of production in a mixed economy society.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u315	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u316	Without going back to Ecopla's human and industrial disaster, I want to point out that the decision of the commercial court to entrust the equipment to the Italian group was taken after the decision to wind up the company. We were therefore not in a position to impose this solution. Finally, I want to say to the parliamentarians present that forced transfer exists. It was first implemented in the Hamon Act and then supplemented in the Macron Act, so that it is accompanied by a right of withdrawal for the other partners and may apply for the rescue of companies with at least 150 employees, or when their disappearance would be "likely to cause a serious disturbance to the economy and the employment pool. » In some cases, the commercial court did not have the capacity to retain the offer made by all or part of the employees prior to the liquidation of the court. Today, it is technically possible. Part of the path proposed by this amendment has already been taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u317	Then we have to finish the job!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u318	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u319	I drafted a report on the social and solidarity economy in 2010, which proposed to make possible the takeover of a company by employees, particularly in the context of a liquidation. The Hamon Law was inspired by it. Your amendment, which provides for the case of the sale of the company, is embarrassing: one cannot prevent a sale by agreement on the pretext that the employees want to take over the company. Whether recovery is possible in the context of liquidation, because employees see their work tool disappear, or a relocation, it can be understood, but it seems to me delicate in the context of a sale. There is nothing to prevent employees from making an offer that will be competitive with that of the buyer. To grant a right of preemption to employees, while their offer may present less interesting conditions, seems unconstitutional to me on the form.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u320	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u321	I do not understand that the basic texts are mentioned when it comes to ensuring the protection of employment and employees. The right of preemption exists for communities when it comes to preventing a sale that could harm the territorial interest or land use. The right of preemption exists when it comes to preserving a local trade in areas where this seems essential. Why would employees not benefit from the same right when it comes to preserving know-how, the economy and employment? Let me cite two examples where such a provision would have proved useful: that of the former Petroplus refinery, in the Rouennese agglomeration, and that of M-Real, in Alizay, where we, together with the departmental council of the Eure, allowed the resumption of the stationery. This was done thanks to an intelligent proposal from employees and their trade union organisations... It has almost been forgotten, after these three days of debate, that trade union organisations can be intelligent, constructive, and make proposals to preserve employment! If this procedure were made easier, the objective – which can bring us together – of saving employment, preserving know-how, promoting the Made in France would be partially achieved. I do not understand the ideological sectarianism that prevents us from doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u322	I put to the vote Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u323	The revolution is not on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u324	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u325	This amendment aims to improve employees' access to labour justice, contrary to the objective that you pursue by reducing the limitation periods in this bill with regard to the termination of the employment contract. Today, an employee has only 12 months to challenge his dismissal on economic grounds, in case of irregularity or illegality. The purpose of this provision is only to secure employers while depriving employees of their right of legal action. It is essential to allow employees to defend themselves, because behind the economic stakes are human lives. It is in this spirit that we propose a completely different direction by extending the limitation period to five years, in accordance with the common contract law. It would be a clear, simple and fair rule for all. That is the subject of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u327	We discussed this subject at length yesterday. That is true, Mr Bruneel, the deadline for contesting an economic dismissal is twelve months, but I am not in favour of too long deadlines. We talked about it yesterday, and even imagined a remedy of more than fifty months, but you will have understood my position. The committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u329	It should be noted in advance that the time limit for appeal under ordinary law in the event of a breach of the contract of employment is two years, not five years, not to mention the many special cases – two months in the case of a plan to safeguard employment, and a variation of one to two years in the contracts. Let us not be afraid to shorten the time limits for appeals. On the contrary, speeding up procedures allows the employee to get out of painful litigation more quickly and to avoid protracted procedures. When we reformed the PSE, I remember that some, frightened by the two-month appeal period, wanted to keep the old deadlines. In the case of PES, appeals have sometimes lasted five years, six years, seven years, which is detrimental both to the company, which is confronted with the economic difficulty of continuing or returning to business, and to the employee. However, in the context of the PSEs, we managed to divide the rate of recourse to the courts by three, thanks to the obligation to negotiate and agree with the social partners within the company. And the deadline is two months! We must not be afraid to shorten the deadlines. By extending them, we're pre-empting litigation. On the other hand, we must regulate the procedure in order to give the employee the means to defend himself and to act when necessary. The quick resolution of a dispute allows the employee to build a new project and to get out morally of a situation in which he might get bogged down. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u330	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 335.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u331	As many as 4 million people are affected today by the precarious situation, which has unfortunately become the rule for young people. This strongly affects working conditions and wages. Insecurity is permanent and precarious employment favours France's specialisation in low-cost production. Yesterday, you set up the CDI, which we fear will sign the CDI's end. Ms. Pénicaud stated that this was on the contrary a step towards the CDI. If we enter into this logic, consider that the CSD is also a step towards the CDI of the construction site. Our amendment thus seeks to regulate CSDs and interim contracts so that they are no longer used as a method of managing the workforce of enterprises and cease to be adjustment variables. We propose that you limit the use of precarious contracts to 5% of each establishment's workforce to end abusive practices. The latter, far from responding to a temporary increase in activity, are indeed a reality. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Contracts could only be renewed once, for a total duration of 12 months. We also propose that the use of these forms of precarious employment should be subject to annual consultation and assent by the works council.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u332	On Amendment No 335, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u333	This amendment is intended to rewrite the provisions of the Labour Code relating to cases of recourse to a CSD. We discussed it at length yesterday. It is not that I want to run away from the debate, but I simply recall that we have already done a lot of work on this subject with all parliamentarians. The conditions for the use of CSDs are part of the ongoing negotiations with the social partners, as the Minister for Labour recalled. It is therefore appropriate not to include in the law what is to be the subject of consultation. In substance, I have understood your objective: to provide a strong framework for the use of the CSD in the event of a temporary increase in activity. Such a measure could prevent certain companies from meeting exceptional orders. It's my reading anyway. On the contrary, I believe that we must maintain a form of flexibility in this procedure, which is quite relative because the Labour Code already covers cases of recourse to the CSD. Finally, I would like to point out a technical point on which we disagree: you propose to apply the regulation of CSDs to apprenticeship contracts when they are governed by specific provisions. The committee has therefore rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u334	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u335	It is clear that the multiplication of the CSDs and the resulting precarisations are a real problem. However, the CSD should not be seen as a method of adjusting the workforce of enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u336	Don't you think that's ever the case?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u337	This practice is, fortunately, exceptional, even if abuses exist. The Government has chosen to entrust the role of the necessary regulation of these contracts to the professional branches. I think we'll meet tomorrow to accompany and power up the branches. Opinion against this amendment, if you keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u338	I put to the vote Amendment No. 335.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u339	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u340	Our country is suffering from mass unemployment. The causes are numerous, the Labour Code is part of it. After five years of failure, it became urgent to act, to reform in depth. Our responsibility as legislator is great. We must remove all obstacles to hiring. Not only business leaders, especially SMEs and TPEs, but also millions of job seekers are waiting for us. Our amendment is part of this process. We need to make the labour market more fluid to reassure employers, in particular TPEs and SMEs, who fear hiring when they want to diversify or create new activities. We propose to put in place a mission contract, which has proven its worth in areas such as research, where it has been experimented since 2008 in the form of a defined purpose CSD. Of course, this contract will have to be framed. It may not be less than 18 months, but not more than 48 months, and shall be attached to a particular mission. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We must give ourselves all the means to succeed because only one ambition must drive us: the return to full employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u342	We can only agree with your objective, dear colleague: to return to full employment, or at least to more employment. You propose to create a fixed-term fixed-term contract for a period of between 18 and 48 months, which is relatively long. The defined purpose CSD of between 18 and 36 months already exists in law – Article L. 1242-2 of the Labour Code. That is true, you propose to go further by extending this CDD to all employees while it is now reserved for managers and engineers and a branch or company agreement must provide for it. However, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment in order to allow the social partners to negotiate on this subject. That is the meaning of our bill, as it is provided in section 3, paragraph 13, that branches will be able to adapt the provisions relating to the grounds of appeal and the duration of the various types of CSDs. This provision should satisfy you. Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u343	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u344	Unfavorable notice because we do not wish to extend the scope of defined purpose CSDs to mission contracts. Rather, the Government wants to improve the current regime of the construction contract because it takes the legal form of a CDI, and allows its beneficiary access to credit, housing, which would not necessarily be the case with the defined purpose CDD. I am sure that we will have broad support in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u345	He's gonna make you look like people on the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u346	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u347	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You say that the difference between the CDD and the CDI is that it allows access to bank credit and rental property. But what guarantee do we have that this contract will not be considered by the banks and the owners as what it is in reality, i.e. a lasting precarious contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u348	It's taking bankers for donkeys!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u349	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u350	[["Yes" on several benches in the GDR and FI groups]] Mr Ruffin, I invite you to look at the practice of construction contracts. As I recall, these contracts, which are not new, take the form of a CDI. You are right, the banker examines the whole file with his free will as banker – one may wish for the nationalization of banks but today it is up to the banker to decide. Rather than constantly conducting a trial of intent, I invite you to take an interest in the reality: you will see the effectiveness of the CDI construction site, particularly with regard to access to housing. The concern about the consequences of the CDI is legitimate. But it must be borne in mind that, on a construction site, necessarily of short duration, if you want to avoid precarious contracts – CDD or acting – you have a tool that is a CDI and which is considered – all studies show – as a satisfactory guarantee for an owner who rents his house. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] In absolute terms, we all agree to favour and favour CDI.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u351	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u352	The aim of this amendment is to overcome the difficulties faced by innovative companies, spin-off from research laboratories, in long-term sectors such as biotechnology or agrotechnology. Indeed, in these young shoots, the duration of the defined object CSD – the form used for "post-doc internships" –, 36 months, is disconnected from the temporal imperatives related not only to the development of research, but above all to the regulatory and administrative requirements in force – I mean the approvals and marketing authorisations that are sometimes very long to obtain. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The amendment therefore opens up the possibility of renewing the contract, but restricts it to SMEs in the European sense, since large companies have other means to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u353	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u354	Our colleague proposes that the measure be reserved for SMEs. My answer will probably seem redundant to him. The bill opens the door to negotiation and gives its full place to branch agreements – the branch being a level of negotiation that we want to strengthen. I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u355	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u356	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u357	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u358	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I found it very funny, at this stage of our debate, to hear the minister celebrate the free will used by the banker, and I invite my colleagues in the majority, when deciding on the amendment, to show the same free will. I understand that they have received extremely strict instructions on voting and tabling amendments. If, ladies and gentlemen, you consider that this measure of support for innovative industries is good, I would ask you to adopt it. There's no need to wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u359	Mr Stéphane Trompille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u360	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mr Ruffin. First, we say a "bank employee" and not a "banker". Secondly, it does have a free will. Be aware that he is first interested in the rest of the life of those who apply for a loan to avoid putting them in trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u361	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u362	I want to reassure you, Mr. Di Filippo, of our free will. You did not escape that we conducted a campaign that included certain commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u363	You didn't say much during the campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u364	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group. - Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] These commitments include social dialogue, which this bill proposes to strengthen. Clearly, all matters relating to negotiation must be discussed with the trade unions and then ratified in a law ratifying the ordinances. The enabling law and the ratification law are two occasions to pronounce. In reviewing the second, we will be able to assess certain elements. But with this in mind, we will strengthen the social dialogue since this is the subject of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u365	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u366	The purpose of this amendment is to regulate the use of temporary work. This is all the more urgent as temporary work kills and hurts every year. In 2014, there were 40,000 accidents at work; 64 temporary workers died at work. This is just as sad for 2015. We owe this to the fact that acting companies and order-giving companies often agree to involve temporary workers in positions most at risk, without providing them with training or complying with legal obligations with regard to the provision of safety equipment, such as footwear, helmets or protective goggles. There are twice as many accidents at work among temporary workers as among other employees. This is no coincidence because when an interim worker is injured, the accident is attributed to the temporary agency but is not included in the statistics of the company in which it takes place. This prevents workers from paying penalties for the number of accidents at work. There is therefore an urgent need for strict supervision of temporary work. In particular, we propose that a company may use a temporary employee only for the performance of a specific and temporary task, and only in cases of replacement of an absent employee or temporary increase in the activity of the undertaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u368	This amendment is very similar to the one we have discussed on the conditions for the CDD appeal. Similarly, the use of temporary employment is regulated by provisions of the Labour Code which I am not going to recall here. Beyond the technical aspect, you have understood our political position: we want to set up a worksite CDI in order to limit the use of interim and CSDs and thus reduce insecurity. You will understand, then, that my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u369	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u370	The Government does not consider the setting of percentages to be the best way to combat insecurity. This does not correspond to the way of life of a company which, at a given time, may be subject to particular pressure and need to change the number of its employees. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Applying a 5% interim quota to the economy as a whole would very quickly lead us to an administered economy logic that I am not convinced is the best for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u371	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u372	My reminder is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure and concerns the progress of our work. At the last Conference of Presidents, we agreed with the President of the Assembly to take stock this morning of the follow-up to our debates. The agenda established on Tuesday provides for the possibility of sitting on Monday from 16.00. I would like a meeting of the Conference of Presidents to determine when we will be interrupting our work this afternoon and eventually to decide to meet again on Monday. I insist that many of us will not have the opportunity to join their constituency for the national holiday. Frankly, the fact that a Member cannot be present in his constituency on such a date is a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u373	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u374	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups and on several benches of the LC and LR groups]] I spare you the transport difficulties that we may encounter. I therefore believe that it is really necessary to organise, at a minimum, a meeting between the group presidents, failing which the Conference of Presidents should be convened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u375	Mr Chassaigne, I have taken note of your remarks. There are still sixty-five amendments to be considered, and it is therefore entirely possible to conclude consideration of the text this afternoon. I will nevertheless inform the President of the National Assembly of the content of your request.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u376	He already is, but it would be good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u377	[[Smile]] Is your afternoon design limited to the nap or extends to the aperitif?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u378	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this was the first time I chaired a sitting. It is always difficult to reconcile listening and flexibility with the application of the Regulation. I thank you, therefore, for your understanding and benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-13-E1011.u379	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Following the discussion, after the accelerated procedure was initiated, of the enabling bill to take the measures for the strengthening of social dialogue by order. The meeting is adjourned.
