ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u2	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor to put his question, No. 49, on the cost of the 2024 Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u3	Madam Minister of Sport, on September 13, Paris was designated host city of the 2024 Olympic Games. However, which says Olympic Games says too often financial drift. The players in the dossier ensure that France will be an exception in keeping with its estimate of €6.8 billion in value 2024, i.e. taking into account inflation. This includes $3.6 billion for the organization component of the Olympic Games Organizing Committee, the OCOG, funded by the International Olympic Committee, ticketing and national sponsors. In addition, it is estimated that 3 billion will be spent on sustainable structural investment from the public sector. The State will contribute EUR 1 billion and local and regional authorities EUR 500 million. The private sector will contribute $1.51 billion. Taxpayers will therefore be charged $1.5 billion. The City of Paris and the Île-de-France region will contribute 145 million each, and the Seine-Saint-Denis will contribute 67.4 million. The public authorities must also contribute EUR 100 million to the Paralympic Games. Minister, in recent history, only the Olympic Games in Los Angeles in 1984 were able to meet the budget forecasts. For the other organizing cities, the bill has sometimes been multiplied by five times compared to these forecasts, partly to the detriment of taxpayers. The Mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, recalled that only 5% of the equipment must be built: the Olympic basin and the two villages. This seems to bode well for the implementation of the announced budget. Hidalgo assures that taxpayers will not finance the Olympic Games and announced on October 1st in an interview with the Parisian: "I made a commitment not to raise taxes. And we won't do it until 2020. » Minister, what steps does the Government intend to take to meet the projected budget? Can you tell us whether security measures and expenditures, in particular, have been taken into account? For the time being, a €200 million envelope is foreseen for this purpose in the organisational budget, but is this estimate sufficient? The cost of deploying the police forces in August and September 2024 is not included in the general budget and could be heavily burdened. In addition, in a context of difficult budgetary savings, is the financial burden of the Olympic project not excessive for local and regional authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u4	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u5	Mr President, the control of the expenses associated with hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024 is a legitimate concern for all our compatriots: on the one hand, because France is committed to an ambitious strategy to redress its public accounts; On the other hand, because recent experiences abroad have shown that hosting the Games is indeed a complex operation, which therefore deserves a coordinated approach. This is why the Government, prior to the announcement of the IOC's ratification of the Paris Olympic and Paralympic Games, wanted to organize an extremely precise mechanism to accompany the Games, in order to prevent any risk of budget deviations over the entire duration of the planning of operations. The actions of the State and the stakeholders at the Games create a comprehensive supervisory mechanism that I would like to recall here. First, it includes an interdepartmental delegation to the Olympic and Paralympic Games, dedicated to ensuring the quality of coordination between the OCOG, the delivery company of the Games – SOLIDEO – and all parties linked by the organisation, including local and regional authorities. This inter-ministerial structure, created by decree, is operational. It ensures that the schedule of operations will be maintained. It is a guarantee of efficiency, because it is known that delays are often the main source of additional budgetary costs. Then, an ad hoc budget programme was created, dedicated to the re-coupling of Olympic spending, including payment appropriations and commitment authorizations for operations conducted by the delivery company of the Games. It is a guarantee of financial transparency and monitoring of the execution of Olympic spending. The programme was introduced by an amendment by the Government during the first reading of the 2018 Finance Bill. In addition, the OCOG's statutes, which will be tabled in early 2018, provide, in return for the guarantee that was granted to the committee in the 2017 draft amending finance bill, numerous safeguards: general economic and financial control, a remuneration committee, an ethics committee, an audit committee, and enhanced rights for the state to inform and monitor the OCOG's financial and accounting activities. With these mechanisms of supervision taken as a whole, it is subject to a control of its management and operation which is exceptional for an association law 1901. All of these processes are entirely new to a private law structure. This comprehensive approach, introduced throughout the cycle of the event, will ultimately ensure that sovereign exposure to financial risks will be curbed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u6	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u7	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. It was important to clarify the situation at a time when we were talking about budget savings. [[Applause on all benches]] I would like, if I may, to extend, on behalf of all my colleagues, my congratulations to our women's handball team.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u9	Handball, both men's and women's teams, is a source of pride for us. Congratulations to these players, who have given us immense happiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u10	Mrs Carole Bureau-Bonnard spoke of her question, No 52, on the legal simplification of the apprenticeship contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u11	My question is for the Minister of Labour. Simplification of the legal framework of the apprenticeship contract should be at the heart of the learning reform that the Government is preparing and which will be considered by Parliament in the coming months. During my meetings and visits to my constituency – the sixth in the Oise, from Compiègne to Noyon – young apprentices and entrepreneurs often share the same expectations: a real simplification and relaxation of the apprenticeship contract. As you know, it has become too complex over time, both for employers and for apprentices: the procedure for authorisation prior to the use of night work and overtime, the way in which it is broken, and the speed of alternation which is too rigid. It is also necessary to remove the age limits applicable to entry into apprenticeship, which are a barrier to its development, in particular for financial reasons in the case of artisans, and among the public wishing to embark on a course which offers the best chances of access to employment. However, the specificities of the apprenticeship contract must be preserved. Apprenticeship is a comprehensive course of training, designed to acquire a set of skills that will enable you to practise a profession, but also to consider a rich and fulfilling professional and personal career path. In the craft sector, it is also the royal route to business start-ups: 41% of craft entrepreneurs were apprentices. The apprenticeship contract and the professionalisation contract must be clearly distinguished, because their respective objectives are not the same: initial training courses for the apprenticeship contract, often after the college; adaptation to a first job or specialization for the professionalization contract. However, they are too often confused under the generic category of alternation, whereas they are fundamentally different in nature. Learning combines the advantages of a way of acquiring knowledge through practice and professional action with the presence in the company, which allows a real osmosis between acquisition of know-how and acquisition of know-how. The objectives and the target audiences of each of these training routes should therefore be clearly stated, the associated funding strictly pointed out and the legal framework simplified. What is the position of the Government to reform learning and to satisfy the need for simplification expressed by all actors in access to employment through alternance?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u12	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u13	Madam Member, I apologize for Mrs Pénicaud's absence. I'll tell you about the answer she gave me. Indeed, the two so-called alternance employment contracts do not have the same purpose. Apprenticeship contracts are designed to provide a qualification or diploma in initial training, while professionalisation contracts allow for the acquisition of a qualification that promotes integration or reintegration into continuing training. In terms of alternation, France is towed by many European states. That is why, as part of the renewal of our social model, the President and the Government want to reform our learning system to reflect the expectations and needs of young people, families and businesses. While the Government pays particular attention to the preservation of the objectives assigned to each of the so-called alternance contracts, we are equally committed to finding ways of simplifying and converging alternance routes, for the benefit of both young alternants and their employers. To this end, the Government launched a wide-ranging dialogue among the actors involved in the alternation on 10 November. The reform project obviously concerns all the current players in alternance and their respective roles in the system, but also the methods of financing this way of acquiring professional skills. However, the Government will continue to ensure that contractual relations and the conditions of training, both theoretical and practical, are preserved for minors, who already enjoy protections under European law and cannot be integrated into a professional environment without also having the protection of national law. Open the alternation, both in professionalization and apprenticeship, to a greater number of people, adapting the system to the needs of the users, not the other way round, while guaranteeing the quality and financing of the training provided in this context: this is the Government's ambition in the context of the forthcoming consultations and reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u14	Mrs Carole Bureau-Bonnard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u15	Thank you, Minister, for being the spokesperson for the Minister of Labour. I take note of your information; We are going to follow the process of the consultations that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u16	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to put her question, No 36, on labour inspection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u17	Minister, between 2009 and 2016, the Department of Labour's workforce decreased by 20%, a loss of 1843 positions, mostly in categories B and C. This year, only 19 positions were open for the examination of inspector and labour inspector. In Île-de-France, 49 inspection sections will be removed. In Seine-Saint-Denis, management plans to abolish 3 screening posts. This dismantling of the labour inspectorate is unbearable when we know the importance of these agents, who guarantee the proper application of the labour code, respect for labour law and, more generally, the well-being of employees. They can no longer carry out their mission; The handling of emergencies is becoming increasingly difficult, as is the case with foreign workers. The International Labour Office recommends an inspector for 10,000 employees. We've been a long way from it for years. Finally, it should be recalled that labour inspectors play a leading role in the fight against sexual harassment and in ensuring equality between women and men within the enterprise. I wonder, then, whether or not the Government wants to strengthen the labour inspectorate in order to ensure the proper application of the laws and the labour code in the company. Does it plan to meet with the union representatives of the inspectors and labour inspectors in order to open a dialogue with them and to respond to their demands?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u18	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u19	Member, Labour Inspectorate staff increased from 2001 officers in 2006 to 2251 officers in 2016. The plan for the modernization and development of the labour inspectorate, together with the merger of the four labour inspectorates that existed at the time, had thus strengthened the labour inspectorate system. There are currently 232 territorial control units in the regional directorates of enterprises, competition, consumption, labour and employment, covering a total of 2210 inspection sections, as well as 20 regional control units, mainly dedicated to the fight against illegal labour and fraud on secondment. However, in order to adjust the organisations resulting from the profound reform of the labour inspection system of 2015 and, in particular, to rebalance the workloads, projects under development within the DIRECCTE can lead to job creation in the regional control units and to the removal of sections in different regions, such as in Île-de-France, where the project is still in the process of consultation with the trade union organisations. To date, the average national ratio is 8500 employees per screening officer, with situations varying according to the territory. Current adjustments in the Labour Inspectorate would bring this average ratio to about 9060 employees per screening officer, which, contrary to what you said, is a much better ratio than the ILO recommended. Furthermore, it should be stressed that a very important effort is being made to reorganise the public inspection service, which ensures greater collective efficiency by bringing control officers together into units of eight to twelve persons as a general rule, by strengthening the powers of intervention of this important inspection body, by transforming the controllers into inspectors, category A agents, and by consolidating the ethical framework applicable to them, in order to preserve the image of the profession and to guarantee the confidence of the users. With regard to the fight against all forms of harassment, the public service of the labour inspectorate is fully involved and intervenes in sensitive situations which require speed and respect for confidentiality. Thus, since 2015, more than 2,400 follow-up interventions have been produced on these topics by the Labour Inspectorate. As for the trade union organisations of the Ministry of Labour, my colleague Muriel Pénicaud will meet them in the next few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u20	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u21	Minister, the ILO standard is one officer per 10,000. I would like to stress the usefulness of these agents. I was yesterday in front of the Paprec company in La Courneuve, where for a year Mr Kanté has been fighting against trade union discrimination – the Ministry of Labour has given him reason. It has been a year since he was rejected by Paprec's management as a union delegate. On the occasion of this gathering, we learned that the drivers of Paprec trucks have no toilets or changing rooms in their parking lot and that they return home, after a day of sorting, in their working clothes. This case clearly demonstrates the usefulness of the labour inspectorate in enforcing the rights of employees within enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u22	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor to put his question, No. 39, concerning the rehabilitation of the Nancy-Merrey railway line.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u23	Mr President, I wanted to draw the Minister's attention to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, to the planning of the rehabilitation of the Nancy-Merrey railway line serving among other things the thermal stations of Vittel and Contrexéville as well as the city of Mirecourt, with its two high schools and its national school of luterie. I associate with my question the mayor of Nancy, Laurent Hénart, the president of the Greater Nancy metropolis, André Rossinot, my fellow deputies, Dominique Potier and Laurent Garcia, as well as the presidents of the Grand Est region and the departments of Meurthe-et-Moselle and des Vosges. All elected representatives agree on the absolute need to schedule work on this neutralized line since December 2016. Nancy-Vittel without a train, putting an end to one hundred and thirty-five years of railway history, this is absolutely unacceptable for both local populations, high school students and students, as well as for the development of tourism and thermalism in Contrexéville, Vittel – 200,000 tourist nights and 12 million euros invested by the city in the thermal establishment – and tomorrow in Nancy – 50 million euros of planned work. By putting Nancy at one hour from Vittel by rail and allowing a connection to the TGV – if it cannot pass anywhere, it must be accessible everywhere – this work would remove a real obstacle to the attractiveness and accessibility of our territories. The minister recently stated that she wanted to give priority to daily trains rather than to major projects, otherwise she would further increase the territorial divide and create a two-speed France. In the framework of the investment plan announced by the Prime Minister, the development of sustainable transport is endowed with 4 billion euros, half of the envelope being dedicated to the renovation of the railway network. The Greater East region has confirmed its intention to consider modernization and upgrading work on this line, which should be finalized through an amendment to the State-Region Plan Contract – CPER. I would therefore like you to confirm the participation of the State and SNCF Réseau in this operation desired by the elected representatives of the Grand Est region, the Grand Nancy and the departments of the Vosges and Meurthe-et-Moselle.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u24	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u25	Mr President, honourable Member, I would like to apologize for the absence of Mrs Élisabeth Borne, who asked me to answer you on this important question. First of all, I would like to assure you that the Government is fully aware of the role of the Nancy-Merrey rail link as a peri-urban service and a modal shift. The State and the region have included €4 million in the 2015-2020 SPC to finance the urgent renewal of the northern part of this line, between Nancy and Pont-Saint-Vincent. The region has also launched a prospective study with SNCF Réseau on the Nancy-Merrey line to refurbish it as best as possible, including in operation. The cost of its full renewal is estimated at between €75 million and €100 million. The lack of maintenance of this link, like that of the majority of regional lines in the Far East, also led to an amendment to the CPER in 2016, which included an additional EUR 65 million to deal with the most urgent cases of the regional network. This example is representative of the delay in maintaining and regenerating existing networks taken at national level. As you pointed out, it refers to the priorities that the State wishes to give to its mobility policy. It is necessary to target the maintenance and modernisation of existing networks, as well as daily transport, in a clear, realistic and above all sincere budget planning. This is the meaning of the work carried out in the framework of the Assises de la mobilité between 19 September and 13 December, which was the subject of a wide mobilisation and whose first conclusions the Minister presented last week. It is also the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, whose conclusions at the end of January will enable the Government to define a multi-year path of financing our infrastructure to be included in the legislation that will be presented to you in Parliament. Finally, it is the meaning of the mission entrusted by the Government to Jean-Cyril Spinetta, which is intended to prepare an overall strategy of the State to reshape our model of rail transport, including freight. I hope, honourable Member, that these elements will reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u26	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u27	You mentioned two ongoing studies: one carried out under the control of SNCF Réseau, to clarify the investment part, or even amend the figures you announced, and the other in the region, on operating costs, how to operate and the policy of the services. Systra is manoeuvring in these two studies. The conclusions are expected in January 2018. I suggest that, in the light of these, the parliamentarians concerned should be able to get an appointment from the department. All political trends are concerned – the Republic on the move, the MODEM, the Socialist Party or the Republicans – the departments of Meurthe-et-Moselle and the Vosges, the region and all the elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u28	The floor is open to Mr Régis Juanico to put his question, No. 47, concerning the future of the dumping site at Borde Matin in Roche-la-Molière.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u29	My question was to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. It focuses on the fate of Borde Matin's landfill in Roche-la-Molière, Loire. The operator group, Suez, filed last April with the Loire prefecture an application for an extension of the site's operating authorisation until 2051, which is 25 years longer than the duration currently authorized. Local elected representatives, as well as civil society actors, are strongly mobilized against such a project. They rightly consider that the inhabitants of the commune have suffered enough nuisances related to the operation of the site since 1972: olfactory nuisances, permanent traffic of heavy goods vehicles or visual pollution by large wind. More than the duration in itself, the elected representatives, of which I am a member, are fiercely opposed to the project to increase the storage capacity of the site. The operator is requesting an increase in its storage lockers, as well as a geographical extension of its facilities, for a total storage capacity of the site which would increase from 5355000 tonnes already authorised to 11404000 tonnes, with a capacity of 500000 tonnes per year at the maximum, or 300000 tonnes per year on average, until 2051. By doubling the total storage capacity of the site, in a downward trend in the amount of waste buried annually, of which we can only rejoice, it is easy to understand that the site will be able to operate longer: in this case, for the duration of an additional human generation, for twenty-five years. It is the increase in the total storage capacity of the site, linked to the enhancement of the storage lockers and its geographical extension, that results in the significant duration of the possible extension of the operating authorisation, not the other way round. The question of the duration of the operating authorisation is not the major issue, as opposed to the issue of the storage capacity and the volume of waste buried annually. In view of the new legislative guidelines for reducing the amount of waste buried at source, the current storage capacity seems sufficient and would therefore not require an extension. Indeed, the Green Growth Energy Transition Act and its implementing decree require a reduction in the capacity of waste storage allowed in the coming years. The storage capacity requested by the operator in this case is exorbitant with regard to the capacity achieved in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes: it represents between one third and 50% of the total capacity at regional level by 2020 and 2025, according to the objectives of the law. The Loire department and seven communes of the sector are currently working on the development of a perimeter for the protection and development of peri-urban agricultural and natural areas – a PEN – whose objectives seem clearly incompatible with the geographical extension of the operator's facilities, which would lead to a deterioration or destruction of the envisaged space. For all these reasons, and because this subject is a major issue for the population of Roche-la-Molière, a municipality of 10,000 inhabitants, I would like to know the Government's position on this issue, as well as a precise point of progress and an updated decision schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u30	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u31	Mr President, honourable Member, allow me to apologise for the absence of Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, who has instructed me to reply to you. Your question concerns the future of the non-hazardous waste storage facility located in Roche-la-Molière, in your Loire department. I will try to clarify to you the status of the procedure from the point of view of law. This facility, operated by Suez, is currently authorized to receive waste until 2026. As you pointed out, it was actually the subject of an application for an overall increase in capacity and operating time. Your concern about this increase in the total storage capacity of the site is, of course, legitimate. However, I would like to recall that the Energy Transition Act set ambitious targets for reducing waste storage by 2020 and 2025 and that the Climate Plan, announced by Nicolas Hulot in July, placed the circular economy at the heart of our ministerial roadmap. Regarding the facility you are quoting, this application appears to be fully compatible with the recent departmental plan for the prevention and management of non-hazardous waste. Of course, discussions have taken place between the State authorities and the operator. The training is continuing both at national and regional level, in order to provide an answer to the operator, which obviously takes account of the downward trajectory of storage, as laid down by law. These discussions are expected to conclude by the first quarter of 2018. We must collectively be responsible for these goals. Efforts must therefore be made, in particular by the operators of these facilities. Please be aware that the regional plan for the prevention and management of waste, the adoption of the Law on the Energy Transition, is currently being drawn up. It will orchestrate the reduction of landfilling in the territory. The entire department remains at your disposal to ensure that the procedure is applied in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u32	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u33	I cannot be satisfied with the minister's answer. The law requires a reduction in the capacity to store authorized waste in the coming years. However, if authorisation is given to the operator, a municipality of 10,000 inhabitants will concentrate between one third and 50% of the total waste storage capacity for the whole of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. I appeal to the Government to review this matter again, as this commune has already done much in terms of territorial solidarity in the treatment of waste. We need to look at alternatives to landfilling and see, very concretely, how to limit the production of waste to the source.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u34	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to put her question, No 51, on the Dzaoudzi airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u35	My question is to the Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transportation. On 12 December, we celebrated the 15th anniversary of the Mayotte Development Convention, which covered the period 2003-2007 and laid down the principle of the construction of a long track in order to include Mayotte in an opening strategy on the international scene. This ambition had been driven by the establishment of a public debate committee that had retained the scenario of a converging track of 2600 metres, at a lower cost and which took account of environmental constraints and requirements. However, since 2010, the State seems to have fallen back on this ambition, as neither the State-Region Plan contract for 2015-2020 nor the European Structural Funds have included the extension of the Mayotte Airport runway as a priority. Nevertheless, the plan contract for 2015-2020 opens the possibility of a resumption of studies on a possible extension of the runway, which might prove necessary in the event that the aircraft ordered by Air Austral, the Boeing 787 "Dreamliner", would not allow the live service of the metropolis at all times. That calls for three observations. First, this position reinforces the idea of maintaining the monopoly of the Réunion company. However, if we are to ensure the development of Mayotte, it is essential to have a hub capable of receiving the dozens of companies serving the other airports of the great Indian Ocean and East Africa. Then, more than a year after they were put into service, these aircraft showed their limits, with direct flights to Paris forced to make a technical stopover in Nairobi, the aircraft being unable to take off at full load from Mayotte, and with recurrent landing difficulties, particularly during the rainy season, which seriously affected airport security and the security of neighbouring homes. Finally, the new European standards, applicable in 2018, risk sealing the fate of the Mayotte airport, since they impose a 90-metre extension of the runway at each end, in order to set up the famous "RESA", the runway end safety areas. Mr Secretary of State, at a time when our territories are conducting a global reflection with a view to their development through the Overseas Assises, could you tell the Mahorais what is the status of the long track project which, because of its stakes, deserves to be included among the strategic projects of national interest of the quinquennium?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u36	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u37	Madam Member, I should like to apologize to my colleague, Elizabeth Borne, who has instructed me to reply on behalf of the Government. In order to improve safety, the European Aviation Safety Agency now imposes on aerodrome operators a number of technical requirements, including the installation of additional runway end safety areas. The deadline for the installation of these facilities is 31 December 2018. Because of the very constrained environment of the Mayotte airport, which I know personally, these requirements required extensive work by the State and operator services in order to define technically compliant and financial solutions so as not to reduce the available runway length. An innovative response is envisaged with the deployment of emergency stopping beds, for which a call for tenders has been launched. Negotiations with industrialists are under way. If nothing had been done as early as 2016 to support the airport's compliance while ensuring the performance of the current runway, this would result in a reduction in the rolling distance that would prevent any significant aircraft movement, thus threatening the sustainability of Mayotte's air service. The State and the operator have managed, despite a very limited timetable, to reconcile the airport's standards with an equivalent level of performance. The impact on the environment of the deployment of bed-stop technology is unmistakable with the catastrophic impact that the construction of a new runway would have on the very fragile ecosystem of the Mayotte lagoon, which is home to, among other things, dugong, a highly vulnerable species. In addition, the cost of such an infrastructure was estimated at more than EUR 200 million, while the financial burden of deploying cribs is around EUR 13 million. This solution will therefore ensure that the high cost of infrastructure is not passed on to the price of airfare. The airlines are unanimously in favour of a technological solution that combines safety, environmental integration and economic efficiency. Finally, as you recalled, all of this is within the framework of the Overseas Assises; Ministers Girardin and Borne remain at your disposal on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u38	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u39	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. The Mahorais know the presence of the dugongs in the lagoon, which is indeed very fragile. However, they also constantly point out that aircraft are flying over the population. I take note of your answer, which is a good step forward, but we hope for "takeoff" – that's the word! - from the track.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u40	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 48, on the railway service to the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u41	My question is to the Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport. It focuses on the quality of the rail link between Le Mans, and the Sarthe, and Paris. Indeed, for many months, all users have seen a deterioration in rail service. First, there are fewer high-speed trains – TGV – serving Le Mans: more than forty of them no longer stop at the station; the service by Ouigo excludes hundreds of subscribers. The TGV thus becomes the "small train". Second, the rates are high and incomprehensible: trains that stop at Le Mans and are part of the same train, without any further stops, do not offer the same fare. The TGV remains the "high fare train", with prices oscillating, without card, between 60 and 80 euros to go. Finally, long delays are accumulating for a variety of reasons. The TGV, which is expensive for the nation, thus becomes the TGR, "long overdue train". However, the construction of new lines should improve the service; which makes the strength of the Japanese high-speed train – six seconds late at the most: a dream! – it is precisely to have dedicated lines. At the same time, users of intercity trains and regional express transport – the TERs – are seeing a slow deterioration in service on these lines, as well as an increase in ticket prices. Staff, who are themselves often mistreated, believe that the choices that have been made weaken the company and that the meaning of what remains the public service has been lost. There are many problems; They are not limited to malfunctions, even major ones, in a Parisian railway station, causing the mobilization of the public authorities for twenty-four to forty-eight hours. For lack of time, I will not mention, for example, the noise pollution caused by the introduction of the new high-speed line into Brittany; existing regulations do not allow for compensation adapted to the needs of residents. Mr Secretary of State, I am not asking you to read me an umpteenth reply written by the public group, which seems to always have a good excuse. I would like these issues to be dealt with in relation to responsible local elected officials and by listening to users. Why not come to unannounced share the daily lives of those who gallant in public transport? I therefore expect, on behalf of the local elected representatives and the users, that I represent here, a concrete commitment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u43	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u44	Madam Member, I should like once again to apologise to my colleague, Elizabeth Borne, who asked me to answer you. You are questioning the Government about the deterioration of rail service on the Paris-Le Mans line. First of all, I want to reassure you: in terms of frequency, the annual service foresees more high-speed return trips on weekdays in 2018 than in 2017. You're talking about Ouigo's impact on subscribers. I would remind you that SNCF Mobilitys has freedom of management over its commercial services. I will therefore merely point out that the company has made bid adjustments, but that they occur outside peak hours and that they do not concern the TGVs borrowed by the majority of subscribers and users whom you are speaking for this morning. As far as pricing is concerned, it is decided by SNCF Mobilitys within a ceiling set by the State, which can be increased for journeys on high-speed lines. It is based on the principle of the degressivity of the kilometric price as a function of distance. This explains why, for the relatively short journey between Paris and Le Mans, the price is comparatively higher. Nevertheless, the introduction on this line of numerous offers at "small prices" allows the TGV to remain accessible to all. In terms of regularity, it should be noted that the line between Paris and Le Mans is on average higher than that of the TGV Atlantique. Trains in peak hours are certainly more fragile, more exposed to traffic management difficulties, but SNCF is taking many steps to improve these results. Finally, the line suffered the full impact of the incidents at Montparnasse station. Minister Élisabeth Borne asked SNCF for strong actions, which resulted in the establishment of a pre-figuration mission, to define a new organization and management of major works and engineering. A program to improve the robustness of services and information to travellers is also being prepared. We will follow with particular attention the implementation of these measures, so that these issues, on which all the elected representatives of your region have been regularly alerting the Government for many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u45	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u46	Mr Secretary of State, I take note of this information. However, I would like to insist. The improvement of the service you are referring to for 2018...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u47	The increase in frequency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u48	In any case, it is not perceptible today. And beyond the questions of delay, we have lost a large number of trains. With regard to the Montparnasse station, we had reported the problem for a long time. Moreover, even if we can deal with it, it will not solve the problems that arise on the rest of the line. Le Mans is doubly impacted. It should be recalled that the financial contribution of the inhabitants of Le Mans and the Sarthe has been very high, since they have paid twice the TGV since 1982. As far as pricing is concerned, Le Mans does not benefit from any of the offers offered by other cities one hour from Paris. The elected representatives and the users constantly emphasize it, but without effect. For example, we do not have access to the Ouigo offer. All these combined elements make it impossible for local users and elected officials to do so. I really invite the minister to come unannounced to see the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u49	Mrs Clémentine Autain spoke of her question, No. 35, concerning the breakdown of lifts in buildings in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u50	My question is to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. It deals with the recurrent breakdowns of elevators that are deplored by the tenants of collective buildings in the most difficult cities. This situation, which has been going on for a very long time, has been the subject of several citizen mobilizations, notably in Seine-Saint-Denis – and for reasons: in the Beaudottes district of Sevran, in Bagnolet or in Bobigny, some residents stayed for more than four months without elevators in buildings of more than ten floors. Can you imagine the appalling, intolerable living conditions that this represents? These breakdowns cause many daily difficulties and lead some residents to total isolation. People with reduced mobility simply cannot leave their homes. Social donors are at stake: they are the ones who must ensure the proper functioning of the elevators, even if the maintenance of the equipment is the responsibility of the private ascendorists – what an imbroglio! Although people are paying more and more, and with the reform of personal housing subsidies, this is not going to improve, the situation continues to deteriorate. This problem is only one symptom among others of the feeling, which corresponds to a reality, that when you live in a very popular territory, you are treated as a second-rate citizen. Many people say to me: "Would it be imaginable that, in the Hauts-de-Seine, for example, in Neuilly, elevators serving very high buildings do not work for several months? " In fact, I've never heard of a situation like this! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Secretary of State, my question is simple: are you finally going to deal with this problem? What concrete response do you intend to give to these inhabitants, so that they can live in a habitat worthy of our Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u51	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u52	Madam Member, Mr Jacques Mézard, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, has sent me her answer, which I will read to you with the utmost fidelity. You call the attention of the Government to the problems encountered by the tenants – in this case, the tenants of Seine-Saint-Denis, but I understand that your concern embraces all the tenants, even beyond this department – because of the recurrent malfunctions of the elevators in some large estates. The Act of 2 July 2003 on urban planning and housing provided the framework for strengthening the security of lifts. The main regulatory obligations of the co-owners are in particular to enter into a maintenance contract, to carry out a five-year technical inspection of the aircraft and to carry out, within 15 years, safety work on the elevators installed before 24 August 2000. The Decree of 9 September 2004 on the safety of lifts established the obligation to introduce 17 types of safety devices on lifts installed before 27 August 2000. The security work was divided into three tranches ending in 2008, 2013 and 2018, respectively, to allocate the financial expenses for the owners. Under a housing lease subject to the law of 6 July 1989 to improve rental relations, the lessor – as you said – has a number of obligations vis-à-vis the lessee. Under section 6 of the Act, the lessor is required to provide the lessee with accommodation in "good condition of use and repair as well as the equipment referred to in the lease agreement in good working order". It must also allow the tenant to take full and peaceful advantage of his dwelling "and guarantee it of defects or defects which are likely to impede it". Finally, the lessor is under an obligation "to maintain the premises in a position to be used for the use provided for in the contract and to make any repairs, other than rental, necessary for the maintenance and normal maintenance of the rented premises". This maintenance obligation requires the lessor to do the necessary work to ensure that the accommodation is usable in accordance with the destination for which it was rented and that it remains in its entirety during the execution of the lease. In litigation, the scope of this obligation has been the subject of judicial clarification in order to better understand the nature and extent of the work carried out by the lessor. Thus, the obligation of the lessor is not only limited to the main elements of the rented space, but also to the operation of the ancillary equipment. According to the Court of Cassation, these – including elevators – must also be guaranteed by the lessor. Therefore, if the lessor – social or non-social – fails to comply with his obligation to maintain, the lessee is entitled to obtain, amicably or judicially, that rehabilitation measures, repairs or any other technical measures be undertaken. That is the answer that Minister Jacques Mézard gives to your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u53	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u54	This response calls for a number of comments on my part. You refer us to the social donors, who is responsible for the maintenance of these equipment. But I would point out to you that you have adopted measures drastically reducing their means: it is well known that the donors of the most difficult territories are already lacking the means to meet the needs of renovation. A second problem arises, related to maintenance and parts. I think the public authorities should go and put their noses in the economy of these elevators. Perhaps this could be the subject of a parliamentary committee of inquiry? I can tell you, in any case, that I intend to continue this battle. It is not enough to appeal to the law, since in fact it does not apply, and that the inhabitants suffer from abnormal delays in reparation. I was alerted this weekend by residents of the public retirement home Les Glycines de Sevran, whose elevator has been broken for several weeks. This is an unbearable situation! We have to deal with it. I will ask you again about this. You said that the last tranche of security work would end in 2018: I don't forget that date. I'm afraid the locals have to wait again: I'll stay vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u55	The next speaker is Mr Vincent Rolland, to put his question, No. 43, on the offer of rail mobility and night trains.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is simple: what about SNCF in our mountain territories? In recent years, we have deplored the gradual decline in regular connections between Paris and the average cities of France. In Savoie, this year again, since 10 December, two links have been abolished. These deletions are in addition to the one in 2016 and are the result of the abolition of night trains between Paris and Bourg-Saint-Maurice, for – we are told – reasons for their lack of profitability. These trains have, however, rendered valuable services for years to successive generations, to whom they have made it possible to access winter sports under fairly affordable financial conditions compared to the TGV. At the same time, it is true, the offer of transport by car has been developed, but the subsidiary of SNCF Ouibus is greatly in deficit: its losses equal its turnover! What else can be said about real estate infrastructure? In Aime, for example, in Tarentaise, at the foot of the world-famous La Plagne ski area, the station – in the middle of the tourist season – does not provide any welcome. From Monday evening to Friday morning, guests find the door closed: no agent, no service! My question is simple, Minister: what is the Government's position on the provision of rail mobility for the inhabitants of all territories? Could we consider reviving a modernised and revitalized night train? This solution would be both ecological and beneficial to the development of rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u57	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u58	Mr President, I should like to apologise to Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Transport, for her absence. I am in charge of informing you of the answer to your question. You are asking the Government about mobility offers for mountain areas, including Savoie, as well as the revival of night trains. With regard to the service to Savoie, the TGV links on the Annecy-Chambéry-Paris axis, of which I recall that they are part of the freedom of management of the SNCF Mobilitys public establishment, have in fact evolved on 10 December with the new annual service. Thus, the Annecy-Paris TGV via Chambéry of 5h31 was removed, as its filling rate was well below 50%. The TGV Paris-Annecy Sunday at 7:49 am is also deleted. These changes, however, do not affect the offer on weekdays, which remains stable. Their impact on professional travellers will therefore be very limited. Moreover, SNCF Mobilitys has naturally put in place railway alternatives in correspondence via Aix-les-Bains and Lyon Part-Dieu. With regard to night trains, the offer is now refocused on two lines, Paris-Briançon and Paris-Rodez-Latour-de-Carol, responding to a concern for balanced spatial planning. The other lines are no longer being used, not only because of their deficit, but also because of the service to the territories concerned by alternative transport offers of good level – you mentioned one of these offers. More broadly, the Government intends to develop a strong strategy for the rail sector as the new uses of mobility develop rapidly and change its model, already affected – as we all know – by a colossal debt. This is the meaning of Jean-Cyril Spinetta's current mission of consultation to reshape this model, within the framework of a market that is soon open to competition, while preserving the missions of an efficient public service. The conclusions of this mission are expected by the end of January and will feed into the future mobility guidance law, which will allow us to collectively reflect on the most relevant mobility solutions for all our citizens in all territories. The Minister of Transport has also asked me to assure you that she is available on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u59	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u60	I would be happy to be able to talk to her about this, if possible at the beginning of 2018. Let me return for a moment to the issue of the night train. The main reason for stopping the Paris-Bourg-Saint-Maurice line is its lack of profitability. But it must be borne in mind that this train has not been the subject of any communication or promotion. You know the saying: "Who wants to drown his dog, accuses him of rage. In a way, this train was gradually allowed to die. I am convinced, however, that there is a market for this type of train – if we deign to worry about it – which would be of particular interest to students and young active people, who are not well-off and who are difficult to pay for the high price of TGV tickets at peak times. I therefore ask you to reconsider all this: that is what I will say very soon to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u61	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to put her question, No 57, on the social security contributions of cross-border pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u62	I salute Mrs. Gény-Stephann who has just arrived at the bench of the Government. Madam Secretary of State, as an elected member of the Moselle, in a border riding with Germany, I would like to ask you about the difficulties faced by so-called mixed cross-border pensioners with regard to the payment of their pension contributions. According to European legislation, frontier workers, whether employed or self-employed, can only be affiliated with one social security scheme, that of the Member State in which they work and contribute. Cross-border pensioners residing in Moselle who receive both a German retirement pension and a French retirement pension are compulsory members of the French health insurance scheme. These pensioners are, in fact, subject to the CSG – generalised social contribution – and to the CRDS – contribution to the repayment of social debt – not only on their French retirement, but also on their German retirement. Yet they contributed to Germany, and thus financed German social security! It does not seem to me to be legitimate for a pensioner to be subject to social security charges arising from the application of several national laws, whereas he may be insured only in the light of one of those laws. The so-called mixed frontier pensioners actually benefit only from the sickness branch of social security; Their retirement, she, is German. It would be more equitable to establish a system of specific contributions for these so-called mixed pensioners. This system would either: either the CSG and CRDS drawdowns from foreign retirement pensions would be limited to the sickness branch, or the overall tax rate would be significantly reduced – the new rate would be set by order-in-council. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me what the Government intends to propose to put an end to the current double contribution scheme, which severely penalizes these pensioners?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u63	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u64	Madam Member, you are asking the Government about the situation, with regard to social contributions, of pensioners who, residing in France, receive both a French pension and a pension from another European Union country – in this case Germany. You rightly pointed out that under European legislation on the coordination of social security, these persons are subject to French social security legislation alone because they reside in France and receive at least one French pension. Such membership in a single State, in accordance with the principle of the uniqueness of the applicable legislation, ensures that such persons are not subject to double social security contributions. It is therefore normal for all the French and German incomes of these persons to be subject to social levies intended to finance their social security cover, in this case the CSG and the CRDS. In this respect, you will notice that they are placed on an equal footing with persons insured in France who receive only one retirement pension of the same level as them. You also find it unfair that these pensioners are subject to levies that go beyond the financing of their health insurance, the only coverage they would need, considering in this respect that they have already contributed for the other risks on their German income when they were active. First of all, it should be remembered that our social security system, in all branches, is based – as is the case in Germany and in the European countries in general – on a principle of solidarity which applies in particular between generations, i.e. between workers and pensioners. The assets thus finance pensions of pensioners, while the latter take their share in the financing of all branches of social security. It is not a traditional insurance system where people are insured according to their personal needs and means, but a solidarity system of social security. Finally, a pensioner may not only need health insurance, but also – less and less often – family benefits, or even – what I do not want – benefits linked to a situation of dependency. Under these circumstances, you will understand that the Government remains committed to the current system and cannot support your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u65	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u66	Madam Secretary of State, thank you, not really for your answer, but because it has the merit of being clear to our cross-border workers and pensioners. It will be difficult for me to justify it to them, because if they have also worked in Germany, it is probably because there is not enough work in France: it is not a deliberate choice on their part. I will nevertheless try to explain to them the Government's vision on this subject, but I am not sure that its response will satisfy them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u67	Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor to put her question, No 63, on the Ascoval company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u68	In January 2017, Vallourec closed the sale of a majority stake in its steelworks in Saint-Saulve, near Valenciennes, in the North, to the European specialist in special steels, Ascometal, a dossier followed of course by Bercy. This agreement between the two groups led to the creation of a joint venture called Ascoval, which was 40% owned by Vallourec and 60% owned by Ascometal. Philippe Crouzet, president of the management board of Vallourec, declared at the time that this transfer was to allow the steelworks of Saint-Saulve to write with Ascometal a new page of its history while continuing to supply Vallourec with special steels. After 15 long months of anxiety about their future, the employees were relieved – even if they had doubts about the viability of this consortium. Since then, they have continued to meet all the challenges in this state-of-the-art industrial site, with constantly increasing production capacity, and ideally placed at the heart of rail and river networks. The announcement, on 20 November, less than a year after this agreement, of the judicial reorganization procedure of the Ascometal group calls and deeply worries the 320 employees of Saint-Saulve, who fear to suffer the same fate as their colleagues at the Dunkirk site, for which I have a sincere thought since 140 of them will spend Christmas having lost their job. Ascoval is now in the safeguard procedure. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, provide us with information to reassure the employees of Ascoval the day after what was supposed to be an important day in the evolution of this issue yesterday?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u70	Ascometal is a shareholder of 60% of Ascoval, the remaining 40% of which is owned by Vallourec. The placement in court of the Ascometal industrial group on 22 November led the company Ascoval to apply for protection from the Strasbourg High Court, which opened a safeguard procedure on 29 November. Unfortunately, the Ascometal industry group has been experiencing difficulties for several years. Its resumption at the helm of the court in 2014 did not allow it to achieve the economic balance sought. In view of the massive financing needs to carry out the group's recovery, it was decided several months ago to launch a search for buyers. While the procedural framework differs for these two entities – judicial redress for Ascometal and safeguard proceedings for Ascoval – the Government has a comprehensive approach to the future of the entire group. Be assured, Madam Member, that the department's services are particularly involved in this matter. I understand the concern of the employees of Ascoval; The opening of a collective procedure is always a test for employees and the expectation in this context is extremely difficult. You are right to point out that the procedure is entering an important phase, since three offers have just been submitted and are being carefully examined, on the one hand from the point of view of the scope they cover, on the other from the point of view of their means of financing, and, finally, from the point of view of the special conditions attached to each of them. It will then be up to the Strasbourg High Court to examine these offers and to retain the one which will, under the best conditions, ensure the most lasting employment and payment of creditors, and which will present the best guarantees of enforcement. Before deciding, the court will have to obtain the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the procedural bodies, but also that of the bodies representing the staff. According to the information available to me, we are moving towards a hearing at the end of January. I once again confirm to you, Madam Member, the complete determination of the Government, the departments of the Ministry and of myself to ensure that a credible solution of resumption is identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u71	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u72	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I would like some clarification of Liberty's offer. It doesn't seem to be about Ascoval at first, but can you confirm it to me? And what about Vallourec's position in this case?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u73	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u74	Offers, including the one you're talking about, are still under review. I therefore do not wish to prejudge the conclusions drawn by the services and the court. I cannot clarify at this stage the position of Vallourec.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u75	Mr Patrice Verchère, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No 41 concerning the reductions on the housing tax of new municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u76	The 2015 amending finance law introduced in the General Tax Code an Article 1411 -IIc which creates a special situation for new municipalities members of an EPCI with own taxation. In the event of the creation of a new commune, such as Cours, in the Rhône, this article provides for the outright repeal of the existing Community-level allowances for those communes – I would point out that these reductions are the result of the transfer by the departments of the housing tax to the EPCI. Thus, taxpayers in the new municipality who are liable for the housing tax no longer benefit from the tax reductions granted to taxpayers in the other municipalities of the same EPCI with their own taxation, resulting in a breach of equality before the tax. Implemented only since 2017 by the tax administration, this provision calls into question the constitutional principle of equality of citizens with regard to taxation, a principle derived from the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights of 1789. Such a provision is therefore at the mercy of the first priority question of constitutionality which will be asked in this regard. In this context, does the Government intend to remove this provision, which is certainly not done by the current minister, but which legally weakens the tax on the municipalities concerned, and to reimburse the taxpayers injured by the calculation of their housing tax for 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u77	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u78	Mr President, I should like to apologize to Gérald Darmanin, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, who was unable to attend in the morning. You are contesting the abolition of the adjustments to the housing tax provided for in Article 1411 IIc of the General Tax Code in the event of the creation of a new municipality. As you know, the departmental share of the housing tax was transferred to the EPCI in 2010. In order to ensure the neutrality of this transfer for taxpayers, the II quater of Article 1411 of the General Tax Code provided that the allowances applied in the municipalities or in the EPCIs should be adjusted, so-called "deduction adjustments". The Financial Amendment Act for 2015 has supplemented this scheme by providing, in the event of the creation of a new municipality, for the abolition of these reliefs from the year in which the reductions applied in the territory of that municipality are harmonised. It is not envisaged to change this logical scheme for four reasons. First of all, the creation of a new municipality based on the merger of several communes, it implies that the latter implements its own policy of reductions and must therefore harmonise them throughout its territory. Keeping the corrections inherited from 2011 and applied by the former communes of its territory no longer makes sense. They are therefore deleted. Secondly, the abolition of the reliefs also applies to the EPCIs to which the former municipalities now merged when they have not already adopted their own abatement policies. Indeed, in the event that an EPCI did not introduce its abatement policy, their correction was determined on the basis of the 2010 communal data. With the creation of the new commune, this maintenance has no meaning. The abolition of the correction of the allowances therefore applies both to the communal share and to the intercommunal share. Thirdly, to go back to the principle of the abolition of corrective measures would lead to the maintenance, in the territory of the same new municipality, of different corrective measures on each of the perimeters corresponding to the territories of the former communes, even though the reductions have been harmonised. The result would be a difference in treatment between the parties liable, which would undermine the principle of equality before public office. Fourthly, the removal of the relief mechanism is sometimes favourable, sometimes unfavourable to taxpayers depending on the case, since the adjustment variable introduced in 2011 is likely to increase or decrease the contribution of the debtors, if the EPCI wishes to mitigate its effects, it can simply deliberate with a view to putting in place its own policy of reductions throughout its territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u79	Mr Patrice Verchère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u80	Madam Secretary of State, such a situation will pose real problems for the creation of new communes. Of course, you have just said, there is a correction at the level of the reductions so that they are common throughout their territory, and this unification is of course necessary. But the example of the town of Cours that I have mentioned shows that by unifying these reductions – or by abolishing them according to the choice of the new municipality – the departmental allowances transferred to the EPCI which the inhabitants of the new municipality might have previously enjoyed. The problem concerns not only the new municipality, but also the EPCI, community of communes or, in this case, community of agglomeration, the taxpayer of the neighbouring municipality who has not merged continuing to benefit from the reductions on the housing tax which he pays to the EPCI while the taxpayer of the new municipality no longer benefits from it. There is therefore a breach of equality before the tax between those of the new municipality and those of the neighbouring municipalities which are members of the same EPCI. This is a real problem. This case is before the Association of Mayors of France. If there are no new communes in France, let's not change anything. Of course, you have nothing to do with it since it dates back to 2015, but there is a real mistake. We will ask a priority question of constitutionality, because it is a real breach of public charges between the taxpayers of the new municipality, who pay their housing tax to the EPCI, and those of the other municipalities of the same EPCI, who continue to benefit from the reductions – those previously decided by the Rhône department in this case. I wanted to say it, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u81	Mr Stéphane Mazars, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 50, on 'quality under the mother's name'.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u82	My question concerns the delays in regularisation in the payment of quality aid for the 2016 marketing year for veal under the mother and organic veal. In the context of this campaign, the first part of the aid under the mother was paid, although it was lower than the announced amount of EUR 35 per eligible calf and EUR 70 per labelled calf. On the other hand, the additional portion, representing the difference between the estimated and final amounts, remains due. This situation is of particular concern to farmers in this field of excellence in two ways: on the one hand, there is nothing to explain the decrease in the estimated unit amount of 27.50 euros per head for eligible veal, and thus double, 55 euros, for certified veal, and despite the events of the ministerial decree of 22 June 2017; On the other hand, while the campaign has now been over for several months and given the stability of the CAP envelopes and the number of calves on the label known, the final unit amount of the aid "veal under the mother" should amount to 37.50 euros per eligible head and double – 75 euros per labeled head. Therefore, considering the estimated unit amount paid and the final unit amount – EUR 37.50 or EUR 75 – there appears to be a shortfall of EUR 10 per eligible calf per head and EUR 20 per labeled calf per head respectively. But even more so than this differential, the amount of the delta, the herders are concerned that they do not yet know the date of the payment. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for reassuring the farmers in this field of excellence, in particular those of my department, Aveyron, by indicating the exact unit amount "veal under the mother" retained by the administration and to specify the timing of payment of the aid delta, without which our farmers will have the greatest difficulty in maintaining their production.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u83	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u84	Mr President, I should like to apologise to Mr Stéphane Travert, Minister for Agriculture and Food, who cannot be with us this morning. You are right, the payments of aid to the veal under the mother and the organic calf under the 2016 marketing year were made in two waves, one in June and the other in July 2017. These delays in payment were due to a problem of sizing the two envelopes in relation to the number of animals eligible. However, changing their calibration meant obtaining the agreement of the European Commission. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food therefore brought together representatives of the profession in June to take stock of this issue and to present them with the strategy adopted at European level. It finally succeeded in obtaining an agreement from the Commission, which allowed the unit amounts to be revalued. The final unit amounts were established by a decree of 18 July: EUR 27.50 per head for labelled calves and EUR 55 per head for labelled calves. This is less than what the profession expected, but much better, with regard to the aid for the labelled calf, than the provisional amount fixed in June. For the 2017 campaign, envelopes were calibrated to reflect the new fungibility rules. However, the unit amount chosen will depend on the number of animals eligible. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the coupled aid introduced by France is subject to an audit procedure by the services of the European Commission. While the important work carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has made it possible to secure the vast majority of coupled aid schemes, the aid scheme for veal under the mother continues to raise serious questions from the Commission, which could ultimately lead to the abolition of this aid for future campaigns. Professionals have been warned of this risk by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which remains fully mobilised to sustain this aid scheme for the end of programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u85	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u86	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. However, I am concerned that, in substance, farmers are not fully satisfied, as the second payment for the 2016 marketing year has not yet been made. If I don't go back to the amount withheld for the first payment, they're still waiting for the second payment. However, in your reply, Madam Secretary of State, you still do not give a date for it, whereas this would allow farmers to organise the proper management of their farm. A difficulty therefore persists. We know today that these aids to the calf under the mother are in the eyes of the European Commission, but also that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is committed to maintaining these channels of excellence, namely the calf under the mother and the organic calf. I hope, of course, that the interests of these farmers will be preserved, especially since within the framework of the general states of food – the EGAs – we are in the process of structuring the sectors and want to ensure that this type of livestock can benefit from added value. Its economic model now seems to correspond to the state of mind in which the EGAs operate. These are the elements of an answer that I wanted to bring to your attention, Madam Secretary of State. In any case, I am still a little hungry about the amount still to be collected by calves farmers under the mother for the 2016 campaign and the calendar, which unfortunately remains totally opaque.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u87	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to put her question, No 65, on the situation in the wine sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u88	A few days ago, in our Chamber, the majority rejected a tax exemption on the harvest contract. The reason for this rejection was quite interesting: such a measure would have created a kind of positive discrimination in the wine sector! This is part of the wonders of our function: we can benefit from a dangerous concept. We need massive support for our wine growers, who are already faced with European danger on issues such as planting rights or the castle designation. We also need to support them in exporting and valuing French know-how. We must also make good some of the damage that the State is doing by not allowing the insurance of wine parcels or by prohibiting the establishment of financial reserves by means of tax batting. This year, in April, in certain areas of Vaucluse and Luberon, 50% of the vines were affected by the frost: this phenomenon challenges us on the survival of an entire economic and cultural sector in the face of climate events. Two requests were then made: the possibility for winemakers to adopt, in the event of a crisis due to climatic incidents, a negotiating behaviour and a plan for the development of insurance in the sector. What does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food intend to do on these two subjects?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u89	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u90	Mrs Travert, you are asking Mr. Stéphane Travert about the scheme for exempting social security contributions from pay as part of the harvest contract, as well as the reasons for its abolition. Firstly, contrary to its original objective and despite its cost, this scheme has never managed to make these jobs more attractive. In addition, the proximity of this scheme to that envisaged under the Social Security Amendment Financing Act 2014 aimed at introducing a degressive reduction in social security contributions, censored by the Constitutional Council, raised serious doubts as to whether the exemption from the harvest contract would comply with the principle of equality between insured persons within the agricultural social protection scheme. Moreover, employees who have signed a harvest contract will benefit, like all others, from the measures to gain purchasing power provided for in Article 8 of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2018, since the abolition of sickness and unemployment wage contributions will also apply to agricultural employees. I would like to recall the permanent commitment of the State to accompany the wine sector. As you pointed out, your department was severely affected by many climate events during 2017. In this context of multiple hazards, a number of mechanisms have already been deployed since this summer to assist wine growers in difficulty. With regard to the relief of the tax on unbuilt land for the parcels affected by the claims, the Minister for Agriculture and Food asked his colleague Gérald Darmanin to facilitate the consideration by his services of the significant losses suffered by the wine growers. With regard to social security contributions, a budget of EUR 30 million has been allocated at national level under a national health action fund. Furthermore, any farmer in a difficult financial and economic situation may apply to the agricultural social mutual fund on which he depends for the establishment of a payment schedule for social contributions. With regard to the burden-relief measures, the measures to accompany the taking over of the financial costs associated with the debt restructuring or the white year for the current banking annuity are open until the end of 2017. To help businesses, identification and support units for operators in difficulty will be set up in each department according to a renovated organisation. As far as crop insurance is concerned, it now covers 25% of French wine producers: it is therefore essential that farmers are able, thanks to the state-supported crop insurance scheme, to carry out their production more broadly. Finally, you refer to the mechanism for purchasing harvestable crops in response to adverse weather events. The decree and the technical instruction to the services defining the terms and conditions of these purchases have been published for the 2017 harvest so that the prefects of department can allow, in areas affected by adverse weather events, the purchase of fresh grapes and musts by the affected wine growers from this year onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u91	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u92	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. If the measures envisaged will certainly benefit large farms, it is necessary to be very vigilant with regard to small farms, because they are the ones who need the most aid. They must therefore be kept vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u93	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor to raise her question, No. 59, concerning the judicial map and the Court of Appeal of Nîmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u94	My question is to Mrs. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. Justice is a priority of this quinquennium, as evidenced by the broad consultation launched on 6 October last by the Prime Minister and Mrs. La Garde des Seales, with the actors on the ground, around five thematic projects. On the form, first of all, I welcome the method adopted: collaborative reflection allows stakeholders to express themselves and, on the other hand, to bring local experiences and initiatives back to the ministries concerned. It is also the best way to reach consensus and to respond not only to the needs of the courts, but also to the expectations of our fellow citizens. On the substance, in addition to the digital transformation, the reform of civil procedure, the criminal procedure, the meaning and the effectiveness of sentences, the question of the adaptation of the judicial organization will be studied. I'm asking you this morning about this last construction site. The aim is indeed to set up multidisciplinary teams around the magistrates and to keep the daily litigation close to the litigants. That is why, together with my fellow Members of Parliament from the Gard, we recently met with the Keeper of the Seals to discuss the issues relating to the sustainability of the Nîmes jurisdiction. This meeting took place at a time when Dominique Raimbourg and Philippe Houillon – both former presidents of the National Assembly's Law Commission –, entrusted with a mission whose conclusions will guide the evolution of the judicial map, begin their work. While Ms. Keeper of the Seals reiterated at this meeting her commitment not to close any appeal jurisdiction and to maintain that of Nîmes, there are still concerns about the specialisation of Nîmes. If it were to come to fruition, the assumptions currently envisaged suggest the flight to Montpellier and Toulouse of half of the disputes now dealt with in Nîmes. Such a development would have an important impact not only on the number of magistrates serving in Nîmes and on the law firms established in the agglomeration, but also, ultimately, on the litigants, both in terms of the time taken to deal with the remaining disputes and in terms of the way in which they are defended. However, among the principles that ensure coherence in the work of justice are those of proximity and efficiency, as the guard of the buckets pointed out. Can you therefore, Madam Secretary of State, communicate to us elements that would respond to the legitimate concerns of the Nîmes world of justice, i.e. legal professionals, elected representatives and our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u95	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u96	Madam Member, I apologize to Mrs Nicole Belloubet, who is absent this morning. However, it has already had the opportunity to raise the important issue of the reorganization of our judicial network. It is, as you have noted, a sensitive subject for our territories as well as for all actors in the judicial world. On 5 October, together with the Prime Minister, the five justice projects were launched, reflecting our desire to transform the justice of our country. This is one of the main priorities of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, as evidenced by the budget for 2018, with 3.9% increase and 1000 jobs created. These justice projects focus on digital transformation, the simplification of civil and criminal proceedings, the effectiveness of sentencing and the adaptation of the territorial organisation of justice. We cannot leave it to the status quo: we must evolve our justice in order to better meet the expectations of the litigants. But we must dialogue and not impose brutally: that is why it was asked, as you mentioned, to two former presidents of your Law Committee – Messrs. Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg – to carry out a mission of consultation with all stakeholders on the issue of judicial organisation. As the custody of the seals has already had the opportunity to say, the Government's will is clear: the current grid of our jurisdictions will be maintained. In addition, as you know, the Bar of Nîmes was received by the concertation mission. All the proposals he has made can therefore be taken into account in his conclusions, which will be submitted on 15 January. With regard to the territorial organisation of our justice, the approach followed has only one objective: to adapt our network to the challenges facing the justice system and to render the best possible service to the litigants, under optimal conditions for the actors of the judicial world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u97	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u98	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for that clarification. I insist: when we speak of proximity and efficiency, the Court of Appeal of Nîmes, which has the peculiarity of being on top of several departments – the Ardèche, the Lozère and the Vaucluse – and on several regions, really allows us to respond to all the guidelines that the Government wishes to give to its judicial policy. I will therefore be extremely vigilant, like my fellow Member of the Commission, as regards the development of this dossier. In view of the demographic peculiarity of our two regions, whether it is Occitanie or Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, we should keep – since the other two courts of appeal, be it Montpellier or Toulouse, are, like Aix-en-Provence, already overloaded – the Court of Appeal of Nîmes. The current status quo would at least initially allow us to respond to this need for proximity and efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u99	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor to put his question, No. 53, on festivals and the label 'festival city'.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u100	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my question is for the Minister of Culture, whose presence in the Chamber I welcome, and concerns festival policies and patronage. I come from a constituency of the Hérault, on the shores of the Mediterranean, whose remote lands are more readily mentioned about the wine crisis, oyster farming difficulties and economic and social problems. In this connection, I would like to congratulate all those who are fighting these problems on a daily basis rather than taking refuge in grief. I would like, for my part, to refer to these territories to mention the local authorities, associations, volunteers and private donors who are mobilizing all winter to organize summer festivals, so that our holidays – your holidays, dear colleagues – will best take place during this time when you join them. Dozens of festivals are organized in Sète, Pézenas, Tourbes, Vias, and tens or even hundreds of thousands of visitors gather to celebrate them every summer. Having become a real brand, these festivals symbolize the know-how that enables these actors and communities to mobilize to stay alive and attractive. We should pay tribute to the institutional organisations, the local authorities and, of course, the associations, but also to maintain the flame of volunteers, who pay daily, and that of the private donors who are asked to do so. As Georges Brassens says, "the rainbow that lasts a quarter of an hour, no one admires it anymore", and the future of these festivals is obviously uncertain. The lack of staffing, the fatigue of volunteers, the limitations of the use of sponsorship: you have already been asked about these issues, Minister, and you have spoken out. My question will be twofold: can we imagine the creation of a "festival city" label to encourage the most dynamic communities and make them eligible for public funding as a matter of priority? On the other hand, beyond the 2003 Aillagon law, what can be done to ensure that the culture of patronage develops in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u101	I would like to thank the Minister of Culture for her presence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Euzet, rightly stressing the role of festivals and entertainment in the attractiveness of our territories – and I know yours very well! – you ask me about the actions of the Ministry of Culture to support them. First of all, I want to welcome, as you have done, the dynamism of the festival offering in France: there are no fewer than 3000 festivals attended by more than 6 million visitors each year. In order to support this trend, public support for festivals will be extended in full in 2018, as part of a determined policy of support for creation and dissemination. For live entertainment, state funding amounts to EUR 19 million. I have appointed, within my ministry, a senior official in charge of festivals to deepen our dialogue with local and regional authorities on all the issues that arise and to promote the development of this form of sharing that is popular with our fellow citizens and of this tool that is essential to the lives of artists. With regard to the increasing costs associated with the security of these events, €6 million has been provided since 2015, and the emergency fund will again be abounded by €4 million in 2018. We are also working within an inter-ministerial unit to forge the joint action of the State. In this context and in the face of the increased risk of concentration, a more comprehensive reflection must be carried out, in conjunction with local and regional authorities. I hope that particular attention will be paid to festivals which offer demanding and artistic diversity-conscious programming and which meet the twin ambitions of territorial equity and the effectiveness of cultural rights. As far as sponsorship is concerned, this support is encouraged by the State and needs to be strengthened, in particular with regard to TPEs and SMEs. I have taken up this subject in order to identify the brakes to be lifted in order to stimulate this practice. You're finally asking me about the opportunity to create a "festival city" label. I am, of course, prepared to reflect, in conjunction with national representation and local and regional authorities, on any initiative that will promote the richness of our cultural know-how in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u103	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u104	Minister, thank you for this determined, persuasive and forceful response. I look forward to your announcements and call on you to exchange directly with us in the coming weeks on two issues that I would like to raise publicly. On the one hand, we are considering the classification of traditional jousts as UNESCO's intangible world heritage, and I hope that you will do us the honour of accompanying this process. On the other hand, we are concerned about the threats to a local festival, "Mother of Fish", which is taking place in Pézenas; I will come closer to you to see how to sustain this event that gathers 5,000 children every year to present them comics intended for entertainment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u105	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to put his question, No. 56, concerning the abbey of the Tenaille in Saint-Sigismund-de-Clermont.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u106	Madam Minister of Culture, the issue of cultural heritage has become a central issue: France can indeed boast of an exceptional heritage that is very much part of its reputation and explains the nearly 85 million foreign visitors each year. However, this heritage is in danger, most of the time because of the often very high costs involved in the renovation of buildings, but sometimes also because of the inaction of some owners. This is the case of the Tenaille Abbey in my constituency of Charente-Maritime, in Saint-Sigismond-de-Clermont. This invaluable heritage complex consists of a Romanesque church classified as historical monuments – one of the few churches with domes in our territory – as well as a castle and its 18th century stables, listed as historical monuments since 1958. The whole site is left voluntarily to abandonment by its owner, despite the numerous injunctions that have been issued to it for several years, sign in my opinion a guilty malice. This lack of maintenance of all the buildings puts the inhabitants of the commune a little more in danger every day. I am aware that the mayor has the opportunity to initiate a peril procedure requiring the owner to carry out the works necessary to guarantee the safety of the public or even to replace them in the event of inaction. However, this small commune of 166 inhabitants does not have the financial or legal means to initiate this type of procedure. In addition, buildings threatening to ruin, although protected, are only listed as historic and unclassified monuments, which does not allow your services to direct the owner to act. This problem already raised by many elected representatives before me explains the deep dismay that the mayor of this commune is now feeling. Finally, and beyond the fact that buildings threaten public safety, we are facing a heritage site that must be considered a whole, the fruit of a history, and whose disappearance for lack of maintenance would be more than regrettable for our territory. I have no doubt, Madam Minister, that you have already deduced from my remarks the double question that I intend to ask you. On the one hand, can you inform us about what your department's deconcentrated services intend to do to support these communities in safeguarding a heritage threatened by the negligence of failing private owners? On the other hand, do you intend to work on a binding or even coercive mechanism so that these situations, so many, do not persist anymore?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u107	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gérard, as you point out, the remains of the Tenaille Abbey have been the subject of mixed protection as historical monuments since 1958: the Romanesque chapel is classified while the facades and roofs of the castle and the 18th century stables are inscribed. The Department of Culture's departments have regularly drawn the attention of its owner, who resides in the United States, to the very degraded situation of this set, including the risk of roof collapse. In 2013, the owner announced his willingness to have studies and works carried out by a heritage architect. The Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs, DRAC, has therefore set aside funds year after year to help carry out this work without changing the situation. The ministry then ordered the owner of the Tenaille Abbey to carry out the work necessary to safeguard it. In the absence of a rapid start to the work, a particularly binding procedure allowing the State to replace the owner by undertaking ex officio work and then to recover half of the cost of the work from the owner will be implemented on the classified part. In the case of the registered part of this set, under the Construction and Housing Code, the mayor may issue a peril order requiring the owner to carry out the work necessary to ensure the safety of the public. In this case, the State stands ready to support the municipality and the owner, including through the granting of subsidies. Finally, you should be aware that the Tenaille Abbey could also benefit from the Heritage at Risk Fund, established by the recent adoption by Parliament of a provision creating a heritage lottery.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u109	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u110	Minister, thank you for that answer. Indeed, I know that you have made the heritage and the budget allocated to its restoration a priority for the years to come. This case highlights a hole in the existing device, due to the mix of protection. Attempts had been made to obtain the ranking of the two parts of buildings that are only registered, but unfortunately they did not succeed. However, the question of this heritage must be asked. Perhaps the mission entrusted by the President of the Republic and by you to Stéphane Bern will allow us to identify these private heritages which are located in a grey area of our system and to provide precise answers because, I repeat, for a commune of the size of Saint-Sigismund-de-Clermont, this heritage is very important, even if part of the buildings are only included in historical monuments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u111	Mr Grégory Galbadon has the floor to put his question, No. 58, on the municipal theatre of Coutances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, about the Jazz sous les applers festival, and more specifically the Coutances Municipal Theatre, the TMC. "Jazz under the apple trees" has been held every year since 1982. With more than 100,000 spectators welcomed, it is the third French festival and the cheapest for ticketing. His programming is eclectic, ranging from jazz to electronic music as well as street shows. On the program, always great names and discoveries, international artists and local figures. The Coutançais Committee for Cultural Action, the CCAC, is the bearer structure of the TMC and the festival "Jazz under the apple trees". It meets two artistic variations with common objectives: artist residences, discovery of new talent, support for creation, search for new audiences, artistic education, support for amateur practices and regional artists. Beyond the one-off event "Jazz under the apple trees", the TMC strives to bring culture to our territory by presenting year-round programming for youth. It offers shows for all levels of classes, from kindergarten to high school. At the time of the development of the new community of communes Coutances, sea and bocage, he saw his capacity to welcome the school public diminished. The TMC has just accessed the "concerned scene of national interest" system, which says "Art, childhood and youth". We are very proud of that. It is thus supported by the Ministry of Culture, through the DRAC Normandie, but also by the city, the community Coutances, sea and bocage, the department and the region. Building on its success, as well as its new commitments, the TMC wants to have the means to maintain the quality of its work and its current volume. The aim would be to consolidate the positions of the people working there, to increase the capacity of the young public to receive them, and to strengthen the means of support for creation. In a city of 9,000 inhabitants and a living pool of more than 50,000 people, it is rare to find a structure such as the CCAC that carries a regional season and a festival of international dimension. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, about the sustainability of the new "concerned scene of national interest", which is less secure than a label, and about the means that the DRACs will allocate as such. What is the future for this beautiful initiative of more than thirty years, which brings theatre, culture and jazz to life in the English Channel?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u113	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, Mr Galbadon, you are asking me about the support that the Ministry of Culture intends to provide to the Coutances Municipal Theatre and to the Jazz Under Apple Festival, which has become a must in the world of jazz for the quality of its programming and the importance of its audience. I thank you for this, because it gives me the opportunity to greet in this Chamber the remarkable work of this structure in particular, a scene agreed since 2003, but also of all those who, like it, give rise to a cultural life of quality and proximity in our territories. In 2018, the Ministry of Culture confirmed its financial support for the theatre, in the framework of the agreed scenes, which became agreed scenes of national interest, to the tune of 55000 euros. In addition to this scheme, a grant of 113430 euros was provided to the festival "Jazz under the apple trees" and another of 12,500 euros in support of the residence of the jazz drummer Anne Paceo under the "associate composer" scheme set up jointly by the Ministry of Culture and the Society of Authors, Composers and Music Publishers, SACEM. My department, honourable Member, will and will continue to attach the utmost importance to this structure, whose action, particularly for young audiences, is, as you know, the priority that I have set myself: to allow everyone, and especially those furthest from culture, to meet with artists and their works.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u115	Mr Grégory Galbadon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u116	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You will always be welcome to attend the Jazz Under Apple Festival.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u117	Mr Sebastien Jumel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 37, concerning the profession of art-maker.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u118	Minister for Culture, ivory sculpture is intimately linked to the history of Dieppe, which has the second collection of ivory in Europe, with more than 2000 objects preserved in the castle museum. The port of Dieppe, which has developed since the 16th century, has made the port of Dieppe an international port. From the ivory dinner given to Henri IV with mammoth ivory knife and containing a fragment of the meteorite Gibeon offered to the Dieppois Thomas Pesquet, the prestigious Dieppois production has swarmed in all the high places of power. A Dieppe workshop counted up to forty workers in the 19th century, golden age of ivory sculpture in Dieppe. Today, Dieppe still has two workshops. The professionals of ivory sculpture – less than ten in France – are recognized as artisans of art by a ministerial decree of 24 December 2015, given the qualities and specificities of this profession. They are essential for the restoration of ivory pieces of public collections preserved in our museums – Dieppe Museum, Guimet Museum, Commercy Museum, among others. On 16 August 2016, Ségolène Royal, Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy, by decree prohibited any sale of carved objects made from ancient ivory stocks. The Ministry was fully engaged in the fight against international ivory trafficking and did not take full account of the consequences of this decision, which was not concerted, on the economy of the street trade. Today, the workshops are suffocated by the ban on sales imposed on them, even though they only work from previously constituted ivory stocks, often transmitted from generation to generation, and evaluated by the brigade of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora – CITES. Their work therefore has no part in the international ivory trade, which results in the poaching of elephants or its impact. Since 2016, we have multiplied our efforts to save the ivoiriers who are victims of a well-intentioned but clearly poorly targeted measure. An amendment of May 4, 2017 to the decree lifted the ban on two other professions, organ and piano factors. It remains the cultural profession of ivoirier. Today, Madam Minister, I ask you what you intend to do to save the craftsmanship of the town of Ivoirier from the certain disappearance to which he is condemned by the decree of August 16, 2016, as it stands. However, this profession is part of the cultural influence of our country: its rare know-how is essential to the maintenance of public collections of ivory objects. As such, I associate with my question the cutlery artisans of Thiers and his region who work some of their pieces with ancient ivory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u119	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u120	Mr President, I welcome your commitment to the professions of art, and in particular that of ivoirier, who, through their wealth, contribute to the influence of France in the world. As you know, the Order of 4 May 2017 amending the Order of 16 August 2016 on the prohibition of trade in elephant ivory and rhinoceros horn in the national territory was designed in agreement with the representatives of the professionals, received by the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and the Sea. For example, arrangements were made for the trade in cutlery and for the restoration of objects manufactured before 18 January 1990 with ivory legally imported into the territory of the European Union before that date, provided that ivory was used from the raw ivory stock held by the restorer prior to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Today, and despite these derogations, the occupation of road haulage is severely weakened, which I regret. As you know, Mr.Member, the Ministry of Culture has a particular responsibility in the field of crafts. I recently received their representatives to award certificates to certain trades, and to value their transmission. We strive to preserve these magnificent professions, to support them and to value them because they contribute not only to preserving our heritage, but also to ensuring the vitality of France's creation and its international reach. That is why, honourable Member, my services will be closer to those of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, in order to study the particular situation of the ivoiriers you have wished to relay, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u121	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u122	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I am of course at your disposal to accompany these working meetings. I stress that these ivoiriers work almost four kilograms of ivory a year from stocks that were formerly constituted and perfectly listed by CITES. As you have understood, minister, their work is therefore not likely to worsen the traffic in elephants, which I also condemn. In addition, Dieppe is one of the first five cities in France to have received the Ville d'art et d'histoire label, which is the result of a strong commitment from the community of which I was the mayor, in order to enhance, preserve and spread the cultural, artistic and intangible heritage represented by the know-how of the ivoiriers. I attach great importance to the fact that these working meetings will, within a short period of time, lead to pragmatic solutions taking into account the specificity and the difficulties of life of the ivoiriers. Thank you, Minister, for the attention you have given to this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u123	Mrs Patricia Mirallès has the floor to raise her question, No. 61, concerning the number of magistrates at the Montpellier High Court.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u124	Madame la Garde des Seales, Minister of Justice, by Decree No. 2016-514 of 26 April 2016, the provisions of article R. 212-64 of the Code of the Judicial Organisation were supplemented with the aim of creating judicial councils, co-chaired by the president of the court and the prosecutor's office, aimed at establishing a place of exchange and communication between the court and the city. At the first Council of Jurisdiction, held on 6 November 2017, it was recalled that the Montpellier High Court had the largest activity of the courts in Group 2, with 1,254 cases prosecuted per month, while cities such as Nice and Nancy had 801 and 673, respectively. This particularly dense activity is due in particular to a strong monthly increase in the number of new inhabitants – almost 1,250 additional people per month for the last ten years – and to a particularly developed tourist activity, Montpellier welcoming 5 million visitors per year while the Hérault department sees its population increase by five times during the summer. It should be noted, however, that the Prosecutor's Office of the Montpellier Court enjoys the lowest per capita rate of courts of the same scale. For example, the Montpellier Public Prosecutor's Office has 1.85 magistrates per 1,000 inhabitants, while cities with less crime, such as Nice or Grasse, have an average of 2.88 magistrates per 1,000 inhabitants. In other words, the Montpellier Public Prosecutor's Office has 15 judges instead of the twenty-two or twenty-three who should be officers if the ratio in force in comparable jurisdictions is applied. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to know your ambitions with regard to the recruitment of magistrates for the Prosecutor's Office of the Montpellier High Court and the deadline by which it will be able to benefit from the staff required for a criminal response that is both responsive and of high quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u125	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u126	Madam Member, first of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals, who cannot be present today. You have drawn the Government's attention to the number of magistrates at the Prosecutor's Office of the Montpellier High Court. First of all, we would like to stress that, for more than five years, resources have been mobilized at the national level to support the implementation of the various reforms undertaken. Particular attention was paid to recruitment through an increase in the number of competitive examinations. In addition, additional assistance has been provided. The justice budget for 2018, with an increase of 3.9 per cent, will be the first step in a five-year programming law aimed at improving the daily functioning of the courts: 148 new posts in the judicial services, including 100 judicial posts, will fill part of the vacancies in court and develop the teams around the magistrate. In net balance, almost 159 magistrates will strengthen the courts in 2018. A special effort will be made to eliminate job vacancies in jurisdictions where the needs are greatest. In this regard, the Montpellier Court of Appeal is a point of attention, particularly with regard to the fight against organised crime. In particular, with regard to the Prosecutor's Office of the Montpellier High Court, the fifteen posts listed in the job locator circular for 2017 are all filled to date, this court having also benefited from the creation of a new post of Vice-Procurer of the Republic in 2016. The services of the Ministry of Justice will continue to pay particular attention to the staffing situation of the Montpellier High Court, in particular in the context of the management dialogues and the preparation of future plans for the appointment of magistrates as well as the list of posts offered to the judicial auditors of the 2016 promotion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u127	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor to raise his question, No. 54, concerning the fairground hearings of the Court of Grand Instance of Coutances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u128	Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, I would like to draw your attention to the fairground hearings held by the judges and clerks of the Court of Grand Instance of Coutances, in the Department of the English Channel. When the Court of Grand Instance of Avranches was closed in 2010, it was agreed that fairground hearings of the Court of Coutances, within the jurisdiction of which the South Manche is now understood, would be held regularly in the Court of Instance of Avranches, in order to maintain equal access to the justice of the great instance of the people of our rural territories far from Coutances. These fairground hearings, which can be held outside the walls of the courthouse and in a municipality other than that in which the court is located, allow the inhabitants of a territory to have access to local justice. For example, it takes an average of one hour and twenty-five to travel the eighty-three kilometres between the commune of Teilleul and the Court of Grand Instance of Coutances. To date, this commitment has been fulfilled, but I have learned that it is currently being challenged. Indeed, the Coutances baton advised me of a lack of registry staff, following the simultaneous retirement of several officers, while there is no plan to fill their positions immediately. My fear is unfortunately justified since, as of January 1, 2018, there will be only family affairs sessions in Avranches. Everyone is aware of the difficulties and the situation of the country's courts, and it would be incomprehensible that these fairground hearings should be brought to an end. The inhabitants of the south of the English Channel, if they were to move to Coutances, would be penalized in their access to the courts. Together with local actors, I hope that the Government will be able to remedy this situation, in particular through a bill on the programming of justice, with a reform of its organization, in order to redress this situation during the quinquennium. It would not be acceptable for commitments made by the State to be suddenly called into question, which was further without prior notice or consultation with local representatives. I would also like to take this question to inform you that the Court of Grand Instance of Coutances is still awaiting two assignments of magistrates from the seat – out of the sixteen localized posts, only fourteen are currently filled – and one prosecutor, since four of the five localised posts have been filled. At the Public Prosecutor's Office, the post of substitute for juvenile affairs has been vacant since September 2016, almost fifteen months, and no arrivals have been reported. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to know what steps you intend to take, on the one hand, to maintain these fairground hearings in Avranches and, on the other hand, to fill the current vacancies in the Court of Grand Instance in Coutances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u129	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u130	Mr President, the situation of the court of instance in Avranches, in which fairground hearings are held to ensure a proximity to the main proceedings for the population of the south of the English Channel, is peculiar and short-term. As you know, the guard of the seals is careful to ensure that the public service of justice is provided in a lasting manner, in any part of the territory. Five of the eight officers currently assigned to the Avranches District Court will retire in less than a year, between October 2017 and July 2018. A first administrative assistant left his post in October. In addition, two clerks and two administrative assistants will be leaving their duties between February and July 2018. This large wave of departures forced the chiefs of the Court of Appeal of Caen, the only competent in this matter, to consider suspending, from 1 January 2018, the authorisation to hold fairs hearings of the Court of Grand Instance of Coutances at the Court of Instance of Avranches. All the necessary arrangements have been made by the management of the judicial services to anticipate and fill vacancies quickly in this court of instance. The exceptional situation in the jurisdiction of Avranches could lead the management of the judicial services to propose the two vacant clerk posts at the end of school, which would allow for the quick filling of vacancies. In any event, seven clerks are assigned to the Court of Appeal in Caen, which may be provisionally delegated to the courts under the jurisdiction of the Court to strengthen their staff. Every effort will be made to ensure that the staffing situation of the Avranches District Court is restored as soon as possible, thus allowing a speedy resumption of the fairground hearings held by the Cour de Grande Instance de Coutances at the Avranches District Court.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u131	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u132	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u133	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to put her question, No. 38, on traffic around the Cité judiciaire de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u134	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. As you know, the construction site of the future Cité judiciaire bringing together the Paris court of grand instance, the regional management of the judicial police and the house of the Bar Association will end in 2018 at the gate of Clichy, in the 17th arrondissement of Paris. This titanic project, wanted and decided by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2009, will enable us to modernise our police apparatus and to deliver justice in conditions worthy of a great rule of law. But such a project is not without problems, particularly in terms of safety and motor traffic. Indeed, we must imagine that the Judicial City will attract no less than 8,000 visitors a day and several thousand judicial personnel. In this perspective, the town hall of the 17th arrondissement has very early, and on several occasions, alerted the City of Paris on the need to create an additional ramp of access to the device at the level of the gate of Clichy – demand supported since and relayed as a priority by the town hall of Clichy and the department of Hauts-de-Seine. This is an essential achievement for fluidizing traffic, which is already congested in the sector, and facilitating the daily transport of prisoners. Without this additional access, the prison and police convoys will be obliged, in order to reach the device, to make a long detour through the door of Asnières, in an area already saturated. But the City of Paris opposes it, on the grounds that such a project would contravene its policy of reducing car traffic. This position completely ignores the considerable security challenges posed by the presence of such sensitive institutions as the High Court and the Regional Directorate of the Judicial Police, which is also in the context of the terrorist threat we know. Therefore, my question is simple: are you in favour of installing this equipment that is essential for the safety of the sector? If so, what share do you intend to take in its funding? If so, how do you intend to encourage the City of Paris to allow this indispensable achievement?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u135	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u136	Madam Member, the creation of the Judicial City is a major step in improving the working conditions of our judges and police officers. Its installation in the district of the Batignolles, in the 17th arrondissement of Paris, was accompanied by a reflection on the major stakes that constitute the security and the circulation of the forces of law in the sector. From the conception of the project, this sector has undergone adjustments designed to respond to the problems raised and to integrate the Cité judiciaire with the site. The deployment of a new traffic plan taking into account the circulation of law enforcement vehicles is planned upon completion of the road works that are under way in the area of the Clichy-Batignolles cooperative development zone. To this end, various measures are put in place: the avenue de la porte de Clichy will be arranged in two traffic lines and a bus corridor running in both directions; Single-way circulation of André Suarès and the Bastion streets in order to preserve access to the Cité judiciaire by the creation of a countersense reserved for police and justice vehicles; creation of a tunnel directly linking the car parks of the Regional Judicial Police Directorate to Berthier Boulevard to facilitate the exit of police vehicles. Furthermore, in order to limit the number of vehicles in use in the sector, public transport offers will be reinforced – T3 tram line, extension of line 14 of the metro, new bus plan. Finally, the creation of direct access to the outer Peripheral Boulevard at the level of the Clichy Gate could provide additional flexibility to all roads in the area and benefit the Cité judiciaire, which would thus have an additional alternative to routes and convoys to the west and south of Paris. This access would also allow vehicles coming from the suburbs and the riverside municipality of Clichy-la-Garenne to benefit from direct access to the outer peripheral boulevard without having to fall back on the access to the Asnières gate, located 800 metres away. The creation of this access platform is, I am aware, strongly sought by the elected representatives of the 17th arrondissement; It is also an issue in terms of fluidity and security. This is why the police commissioner requested an evaluation of the Ile-de-France road management to investigate the technical feasibility and relevance of such a project. I will not fail to follow the conclusions in order to guarantee residents, security forces and magistrates the choice of the best option. Of course, we will keep you informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u137	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u138	Thank you, Madam Minister, for that hope. I know that the regional prefect has convened a meeting, various studies highlighting this traffic problem. However, I would like to draw your attention to one point, because I understand that you do not have all the elements in hand: unfortunately, we learned yesterday that line 14 has fallen behind and is being postponed to 2020. The RATP has announced this very bad news: two years of delay in relieving this sector, which is that of line 13, while the tram has also fallen behind. I will therefore also have to question the Minister of Transport. I thank you for your presence and your response, Madam Minister, and for the support you will give us for the City of Paris to be at your side in this operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u139	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to put his question, No. 45, on the rehabilitation of the Satory swimming pool.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u140	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, my question concerns the rehabilitation of the Satory swimming pool, located on the military grounds in the heart of the Satory district in Versailles. Sports equipment opened in 1973, consisting of a learning pool and a 25-metre basin, managed by the gendarmerie, the swimming pool is used 15% for the training of the gendarmerie, including those of the intervention group of the gendarmerie nationale, the GIGN, by families of gendarmes or soldiers of the army, by civil sports clubs in the Versaillais region and by some schools in Versailles. A possible closure of the pool on the grounds that it is used only in small part for gendarmerie training, while this rate of 15% rises to 35% with the training of army soldiers and their families. Despite the budgetary constraint on the gendarmerie and forcing it to make arbitrations in order to preserve as a matter of priority the financing of its operational actions, an agreement between the State and the city of Versailles on the financing solutions would allow the restoration and sustainable maintenance of this useful sports equipment and appreciated by its users. Minimal work would significantly reduce the already evaluated figures for the work. A temporary management transfer assumption would also avoid the closure scheduled for the summer of 2018. In a context, unfortunately well-known, of a sense of abandonment of the military in view of the age of their housing and equipment, I ask you, Madam Minister, to give us your support in these steps in order to find a favourable outcome to the preservation of this sports equipment beyond the summer of 2018, thus guaranteeing continuity of service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u141	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u142	Member, you are asking me about the future of Satory's swimming pool. Indeed, this swimming pool is the only one at national level whose gendarmerie is still in charge. In concrete terms, most of the time, it is used for strictly private or school activities, and not for professional activities, as you have just pointed out. From an operational point of view, this institution mobilizes the equivalent of eight full-time personnel from the armoured group of the mobile gendarmerie, while, in the context you know, the security forces must mobilize for the protection of our citizens. The Minister of the Interior therefore took notice of the withdrawal of the gendarmerie on 1 July 2018. While modernization may be desirable in the medium term, the pool is fully maintained and meets all applicable standards. Its annual operating costs are currently offset by operating revenues. This is why the Ministry of the Interior has proposed that the commune of Versailles should resume the operation on its own account, as part of a temporary occupation permit. The opening conditions should be preserved to enable civilian citizens as well as the military who used them to maintain their activities. The Minister of the Interior and I share your concern about the ardent need for an effort to improve the living and working conditions of the military and their families in a number of old barracks. We also share your concerns about housing. Thus, on the Satory plateau, the housing situation of the Delpal district is the subject of every attention, so that a renovation operation can take place as soon as possible. Indeed, the improvement of the working conditions of those who engage in everyday life for the safety of the French is the least of all: it is even essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u143	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u144	Thank you, Minister. One of the options envisaged would be a temporary transfer of management, either to the municipality of Versailles or to associative structures that would potentially be able to keep the site open.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u145	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to put his question, No 64, on the recognition of the state of natural disaster in the North.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u146	Minister, I would like to ask you about the methodology for reviewing natural disaster recognition files, which are very numerous in the Northern Department. Having been mayor for more than 16 years, I was able to see how far we were unaware of the follow-up of the files, which was very long. Often, when the decision taken is contrary to the interests of the victims, it is very difficult to explain, because the scientific criteria on which the decision is based are somewhat complex for the common mortal. The communes of Neuville-en-Ferrain and Roncq experienced two important episodes last year – a drought and a mud flow. The investigation of the cases was very long: more than ten months. For the victim, this means that there is a lot of time without the slightest information between the transmission of his file to the town hall and his investigation by the services. It's very long when your house has suffered huge cracks, as I've seen – and we know how important a house is to the person who has had to work a lot to get it. Currently, forty-two cases concerning the commune of Neuville-en-Ferrain and seven concerning the commune of Roncq are under investigation. I'd like to know if you have any information on the follow-up of these files. Moreover, did the Government intend to improve the procedure, if it did not find it satisfactory? In what form does he envisage doing so? I propose that a parliamentary committee of inquiry be appointed to study this extremely important issue, which concerns many families, victims of very strong, very violent, very sudden events, and for which the answer is slow to come. These are very simple questions, and I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u147	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u148	As you say, the investigation of communal requests for recognition of the state of natural disasters requires expertise and extensive inter-ministerial work based on meteorological, geological or mining data and analysis. Each community, every citizen and indeed the right to expect a prompt and fairer review of his or her file. The investigation periods, fixed by the insurance code between three and five months, have on average been less than 25 days for more than two years. However, the length of time it takes to study depends directly on the nature and extent of the natural phenomena involved. For the episode of the mud flow of 7 June 2016 on the commune of Roncq that followed the floods in the north of France in May and June 2016, the delay you mention is due in particular to the very large number of files filed. Indeed, in your department alone, 1345 files were processed. The application for recognition of the state of natural disaster of the municipality of Roncq was received by my services on 12 July 2016 and gave rise to a favourable decision by interministerial decree of 16 September 2016 published in the Official Journal on 20 October 2016. As regards the episodes of drought and soil rehydration of the year 2016, the applications of the communes of Neuville-en-Ferrain and Roncq gave rise to two decisions which were served by decrees of 27 September 2017 and 24 October 2017, respectively published in the Official Journal on 20 October and 1 November 2017. Repeated droughts and heavy rains increase the risk of damage to buildings. In order to take account of these characteristics, the intensity of the drought is analysed by Météo France, which prepares an annual report. As a result, more than 2,500 applications were processed as of June 2017, following the release of the 2016 report. The decision is made with regard to the force and abnormal intensity of the natural cause. As you know, the Neuville-en-Ferrain and Roncq applications were rejected: the observed moisture level of the surface soils did not reveal an abnormal drought for the periods studied. On the second part of your question, I would like to state before you that the simplification of procedures for the recognition of the state of natural disasters is an objective of this Government, with the aim of improving the time taken to investigate them. Thus, I announce that the complete dematerialization of the procedure is under way, since the eCatNat application, deployed from the first half of 2018, will facilitate the follow-up of the files for the state services and the municipalities. This will enable them to respond in the best possible way to the questions and expectations of the victims. This application will also allow for the instant transmission of requests processed, particularly at the municipal and departmental levels. I would like to assure you, honourable Member, that the prefectures and the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management are at the full disposal of the communities to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u149	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u150	I welcome the quality of the Minister's response and welcome the news of the commissioning of eCatnat, which will allow everyone to follow the evolution of their file. I assure you that the prefectures, and especially the one on which I depend, are listening to the mayors. It is an extremely important comfort that must be emphasized. We are always quick to criticize the services of the State, but we must also greet them when they function well. Finally, the collective, which remains mobilized to defend property, will continue its action in appropriate forums, including before the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u151	I call Mr Maxime Minot to speak on his question, No. 42, concerning the hospital in Clermont and the provision of care in the Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u152	Madam Minister, the President of the Republic and the Government to which you belong say that you want to embody a rupture. However, even on a subject like the one we are dealing with, as modest to you as it is essential to me, you have an opportunity here and now to do politics differently. Do not join the line of the previous socialist government, which, for five years, has kept the blur and made ambiguity a method of government. My predecessor on these benches, Édouard Courtial, has constantly asked in this House, in vain, for a clear answer to a question that is equally so: what future for the hospital of Clermont-de-l'Oise? His tenacity and, today, my eagerness to follow his steps illustrate our commitment to this establishment which is essential to the provision of community care in our territory – and which is all the more dear to me as I was born there. Medical desertification is not a glamour, but it is a reality that we must face. In this context, the hospital in Clermont appears as a symbol, a flagrant example of a dual language that is not acceptable. On the one hand, good promises, and on the other hand, the closure of hospitals in medium-sized cities to the benefit of structures in towns and cities. Local hospital groups should not serve rural areas! Many uncertainties remain. A few days ago, I went to the services where I was able to read the anxiety, or even the distress, in the eyes of dedicated staff and patients. The authorization of the regional health agency – ARS – for maternity was renewed this year, but what will happen in two years' time, while persistent rumours also evoke the closure of Creil's maternity? I also have a thought about the mobilisation planned tonight in front of this hospital, which is also experiencing difficulties. As for the renovation of the emergencies, it was announced by Laurence Rossignol in 2015, when she was in the countryside. But nothing is moving, and it even seems that the envelope has already been consumed to finance the operation of the establishment. Madam Minister, you want to overturn the table: prove it and make clear commitments to ensure the long-term sustainability of the hospital in Clermont!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u153	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u154	Member of the European Parliament, the ARS of Hauts-de-France is committed to maintaining an offer of community care. We therefore wish to support elected officials and health professionals who wish to implement their projects. In early 2018, a one-stop shop will be established in the Oise department to allow doctors and nurses to save time to complete their installation formalities. With regard to the future of the hospital in Clermont, the reconstruction of the emergency department is not called into question, but it must be part of a comprehensive reorganization of the institution's care provision. This reorganisation must also include the transformation of maternity into a perinatal community centre to ensure the maintenance of a community service around pregnant women as well as the project to rebuild the elderly sector – 90 long-term care unit beds and 30 residential beds for dependent elderly – EHPAD. These projects are supported by the ARS and the departmental council, in order to ensure the financial balance of the structure on a sustainable basis. So there is no closure of the structure. The hospital in Clermont is currently working on a €22 million project that will start work at the end of 2018 for completion by the end of 2020. With regard to the territory hospital group – GHT – Oise Ouest and Vexin, pre-existing cooperation at the GHT between the hospital centre of Clermont and that of Beauvais is intended to continue. This allows the population of Clermont to benefit from advanced consultations with practitioners at the Beauvais hospital centre. The joint medical project of this group provides for several actions which particularly concern the hospital centre in Clermont: strengthening of cancer treatment actions; creation of a medical dialysis unit; Advanced consultations in surgery, cardiology, pediatrics and nephrology; Strengthening links with the UAS; development of teleconsultations; creation of territorial medical teams and a public area laboratory. I hope that these elements will reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u155	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u156	Thank you for your answer, Minister. If you do not completely dissipate the fog surrounding the future of the hospital, I grant you a willingness to move in the right direction in the name of the general interest. Thank you for the information you provided me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u157	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor to put her question, No. 46, on the national health strategy in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u158	Minister Minot and I did not agree, but the concomitance of our questions is a testament to the reality of the problems facing the Hauts-de-Frances. As you know, in Pas-de-Calais, the situation is very complicated. Among the priorities of your ministry are the fight against social and territorial inequalities in access to care, as well as the strengthening of the medical and nursing presence, for which you trust the actors of the territories to build projects and innovate. These proposals are in the right direction to ensure better care for patients. I also welcome your willingness to focus on prevention. But the artesian territory – a hospital group of 600,000 inhabitants – is experiencing a very critical situation: the threat of the closure of the cardiology service of the hospital of Bethune Beuvry is an emergency to which mutualization alone cannot respond. Today, a short-term solution keeps the cardiology service open, thanks to the mobilization of the actors of the territory, but it is only temporary. In addition, it is impossible to conceal the closure of the pneumonology service in Lens, in an area where silicosis has reached thousands of former miners. As for the public mental health institution in Saint-Venant, its situation is equally worrying: while thirty-five practitioners would be needed to care for 12,000 patients, often in the acute phase, the institution will soon have only twelve. Under these conditions, how can patients be cared for? City medicine is also in a very tense situation: appointments, both among specialists and among generalists, have become a real and time-consuming journey for the combatant. These examples certainly reflect the national situation in which, with the exception of metropolitan areas, peri-urban and rural areas are severely understaffed. But in the Hauts-de-Frances, the health indicators of the population are the worst in Hexagon. What incentives and innovative measures do you intend to take to stop the medical haemorrhage and prevent territories like Artois from being stripped of their care offering a little more each year?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u159	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u160	Madam Member, you are asking me about the national health strategy, and more specifically about its second axis – measures to combat inequalities in access to care, including territorial inequalities. This is one of my priorities. I have therefore put in place a plan for equal access to care in the territories, presented last October, which is based on innovative and very pragmatic measures: to increase medical time, to encourage cooperation between healthcare professionals, or to generalize teleconsultation and tele-expertise. 2018 will be the year of the operational deployment of this plan. As far as your territory is concerned, the ARS is building a project in consultation with the hospital centres of Bethune and Lens in order to set up a permanent system, particularly for cardiology. Thus, since 1 November, patients continue to be treated in cardiology at the Bethune hospital centre, hospitalized in a nine-bed unit, as well as for scheduled consultations and examinations. Finally, you discuss the problem of the pneumonology unit at the Lens hospital centre. Restructuring work is under way with the pneumonologists of public institutions to set up a territorial medical team, in which the other institutions will be able to take part. A first meeting on the subject took place on 24 November at the SRA. The Agency must lead territorial teams in order to meet health needs in the underserved territories. Both the SRA and the Ministry are at the side of elected officials and users to find lasting and effective solutions together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u161	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u162	You realize there's an emergency. You feel the anger going up into the territories. The population, through associations, elected representatives and trade unions are mobilizing. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u163	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No. 34, concerning the training hospital for the armies of Villenave d'Ornon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u164	Minister, the medical cooperation group called BAHIA – Bagatelle-Hôpital d'éducation des Armées – foresees the disappearance in 2021 of the Robert-Picqué military hospital as part of a merger with the Protestant health home Bagatelle, located in Talence. For more than three years, this opaque project has raised legitimate concerns on the part of staff and users. The ARS, the Ministry of Armed Forces and the Protestant health centre have remained deaf to calls for consultation as well as to the request for communication of the agreement of 6 December 2016 on the formation of the cooperation group. Many technical uncertainties remain with regard to the development which covers an area of 7 hectares compared to 33 currently. It is not excluded that the virtual projections are blurred on the reality of the field during the project, forcing the capacity which is essential for the reception of the population concerned to be revised downwards. Today, the hospital receives more than 80% of civilian patients in a population of 180,000. While the state is about to inject no less than EUR 30 million into this merger into a private structure, alternatives that best satisfy the general interest seem not to have been sufficiently considered. Worse still, false arguments about the obsolete character of the Robert-Picqué hospital buildings have been put forward to justify this choice. They were refuted by the civilian and military personnel who were working there. I have received, and thank you, your reply of December 6 to reassure me of the public offer of care, including the maintenance of sector 1 which is already well debarked. But, for lack of argument, doubt is allowed in the face of your ministry's disengagement over the entire Bordeaux agglomeration and the shift from public health to private structures. If this BAHIA project and this merger are so wonderful, why do you refuse to make the content of the agreement available to the inhabitants and elected representatives, despite numerous requests and despite the recent positive opinion of the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents, CADA? Minister, I formally request that this document be communicated by the regional health agency and a moratorium on this project. Will you order the CADA's opinion to be respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u165	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u166	Mr President, as you know, the BAHIA project for health cooperation comes from the civil-military cooperation of the Protestant health centre in Bagatelle, a private non-profit institution, and the Robert-Picqué army training hospital. It aims to locate all activities on the site of the Protestant health home in Bagatelle. The investment project to expand the premises of this Protestant health home has important advantages in terms of functionality and will evolve according to the needs of the population. This project is balanced, based on a common medical project and shared and shared governance between the two institutions. The reason for the rapprochement of these institutions is their geographical proximity, the concordance of the appeal basins, the complementarity of their medical activities and the need to improve the efficiency of the provision of care in a context of financial constraints and to meet the needs of the population concerned. It therefore fulfils the objective of sustaining a comprehensive and high-level care offer in this territory. It promotes the development of a care path coordinated with other local actors. The shared objective of this rapprochement is to ensure that the people of the Territory have access to care without exceeding a fee, which is clearly set out in the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2016. Finally, I would point out that the project is subject to full validation by the Ministry of Armed Forces and support from the local services of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. As you can see, MP, this issue is being closely monitored at the interdepartmental level to meet the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u167	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u168	Minister, I take note of your answer, which does not surprise me. You do not respond to the non-communication of the Memorandum of Understanding, which seems to validate the sector 1 offer you guarantee. However, if we are not aware of this protocol, there is no reason to believe you or to ensure the sustainability of the proposed device. That's where the bastard hurts. The same applies to the so-called scalability of the project, which comes back with a foot-shoe, on seven hectares of land – if it does, so much space is forced – while another project could benefit from a surface at least four times higher. You are committing several tens of millions of public money to participate in the extension of the real estate assets of a private structure. Understand that this raises some questions on the part of the taxpayers and the Member I am. At a time when all of us are being asked to justify, in the interests of transparency, the public money that it uses, it would be appropriate for ministers to do the same when they decide on an operation like this. In this case, public money will be used to expand a property and will not be returned to the national community at the end of the project. Finally, I note that not only does the offer of care on the Bordeaux metropolis rely on many lucrative private structures, but it is failing. At the moment, there are strikes everywhere, in both private and public structures. You cannot ignore this in the way you organize and manage the provision of care in the agglomeration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u169	We shall suspend the sitting for a moment, to await the arrival of the Minister of National Education. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u170	[[The sitting was suspended at 12.05 p.m. and resumed at 12.10 p.m. with Mr Hugues Renson in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u171	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u172	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor to put his question, No. 55, on education policy in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u173	Minister of National Education, I have the honour of being elected from a rural constituency that covers 27% of the Seine-Maritime department, or 1800 square kilometres, and comprises 233 communes, as well as many schools with unique classes. Like many other departments, the Seine-Maritime has for years been confronted with the closure of classes in kindergarten and in primary schools, even though, in the most rural areas of this territory, the maintenance of classes is indispensable because of the remoteness of these communes and the distances that such young children would have to travel if their school were to close. In these small communes, doctor and baker have already deserted, as well as so many nearby public services. So you understand the reaction of parents who see a class close from pointy calculations, on averages calculated to the nearest decimal point. However, during his campaign, Emmanuel Macron had announced the continuation of classes in rural areas. It is our duty, despite the constraints and budgetary legacies to fulfil this commitment. In the department of which I am elected, too many teachers are isolated in small schools scattered. There are 1100 schools in the Territory, where 800 would be enough. These schools should be regrouped and resources pooled. How can we maintain a public service of quality education, everywhere and for all? How can we respond to the need to ensure that every child has the opportunity to progress? In particular, what resources will be allocated to the municipalities that come together to build additional classes? In short, how can we redefine ruralness through its education policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u174	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u175	Mr President, this extremely important issue is at the heart of the public policies that we have to pursue in the field of education. As you know, I have already committed myself to this House on this great issue. Yes, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, there will be, there is already a national education policy for rural life. This is not an accounting policy, but a qualitative policy, the most advanced of which is the deepening of the approach of rural conventions for each department. As you know, forty such contracts have been signed in the past, which have given rather satisfaction. I have asked Senator Alain Duran, the author of a report on the implementation of rural conventions, to continue his work so that, in the future, the sixty-six departments potentially concerned have signed such a convention. Not only will the number of signatory departments increase, but the content of the conventions will be considerably deepened in several ways, first and foremost in qualitative terms, which makes it possible to affirm a strategy for the revitalization of rural territories through the school. We will act with great pragmatism, examining situations on a case-by-case basis. As you said, in some cases clustering is relevant and consensual. We can have a multi-year vision. In others, it is better to keep the school as it is, and to try to engage, thanks to it, a demographic dynamic. Our approach will therefore not be accounting, but qualitative, explicit, multi-year in rural contracts. In addition, we want to boost rural schools and colleges, particularly through educational innovation. This will be at the heart of what we are going to do to show not only that rural schools are not lagging behind urban schools, but that they can, on the contrary, point a way forward. Thus, from a pedagogical point of view, having multi-level classes can be considered an asset more than a problem. We will also work to ensure that the common foundation school and the link between school and college are even stronger in rural areas than in urban areas, and that this is an asset. Finally, as you know, we are going to pursue an extremely proactive boarding school policy, sometimes allowing for the revitalization of certain rural areas through the arrival of students from other places, giving a new life to the schools. As you can see, there is both a strategy and a coherence on all subjects of educational policy, in accordance with the commitments made by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u176	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u177	Minister, thank you for your answer. Be aware that I will continue to do pedagogy in my rural areas, especially with regard to primary schools. I will also pay attention to the state's ability to bring schools and school groups together so that schools can operate in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u178	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor to put his question, No. 60, concerning the decrease in the number of bilingual teacher positions opened in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u179	"For centuries, France has stood as a people united by its language, united by its culture, united by its history. [...] I also say that this indivisible France, it is plural, it has other languages [...] all those languages which, from Brittany to Corsica, must be able to live in the Republic, without in any way threatening the French language. » "Without a sufficient school offer, these languages, let's say clearly, can die. Everything must therefore be done to make the choice possible, from kindergarten to university. » These remarks made by Emmanuel Macron, then presidential candidate, are taken from a speech given at a meeting and his work Révolution. With his commitment, I come back to you, Minister, to ensure that measures will be taken to ensure the proper development of bilingual education networks. Already, I would like to draw your attention to the announced decrease in the number of first-degree bilingual teacher positions open for the next external school teacher competition. These posts are distributed over the quota of the Institut supérieur des langues de la République française in five networks of bilingual associative schools under contract, in Brittany, the Basque Country, Occitanie, Alsace and Catalonia. In 2017, of the thirty-five posts requested, twenty-seven were opened. For 2018, taking into account the growth of these five networks, forty-six positions were requested, but the department only registered twenty. These declines are causing misunderstanding, even as the number of students increases from year to year. Take the example of the network of secular and free associative schools Diwan. For the 2017 competition, this immersion education network was only awarded seven positions, and in 2018 there will be no more. However, one school opens every year, and Diwan requests fifteen positions in view of its ever-increasing needs. A convention signed in 2015 between the Brittany region and the State, concerning the transmission of the languages of Brittany, sets as an objective the promotion of the teaching of the Breton language, but it must be noted that this political commitment does not translate into action. [[Mr Kerlogot delivered a few words in Breton]] The same applies to the other four languages concerned. I agree with 30 other Members in a co-signed letter, which you received shortly ago. In view of the commitments of the President of the Republic, are you in a position, Minister, to increase the number of posts allocated to the competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u180	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u181	Mr President, as you said – no one can dispute – regional languages are very important. The President of the Republic said so, both during the presidential campaign and since then. Not only is our action in the service of the French language not contradictory with this recognition, but it feeds on this linguistic dynamism. Indeed, the eight metropolitan regional languages and the five ultramarine languages are a wealth for France and participate in our heritage. This year we will be launching the first session of the external aggregation of the languages of France with, in particular, an open post in Breton. We must already welcome this novelty, which is a very big signal of this development. By your question, you would like to draw my attention to the number of positions of first-degree bilingual teachers opened in the 2018 external competition on the quota of the Institut supérieur des langues de la République française – the ISLRF – and in particular the number of positions to be filled in the network of Diwan associative schools in Brittany. The procedures for fixing the number of positions open to the external competition for access to the remuneration scale of teachers in schools are very clear and are in line with what you want. In fact, we rely on the various networks of private education, which are at the forefront of these issues: the Higher Institute of Languages of the French Republic, Catholic education, Eurschool, the Unified Jewish Social Fund, and we take into account as much as possible the needs expressed. The response to all these demands must also ensure a balance between the different networks, which do not have the same staff, the same dynamics or the same supervisory rates. Taking into account, as a whole, the evolution of the means of private education, there is a positive view of the teaching of regional languages. National sizing takes into account the forecast of retirements and the number of vacant services. In the light of these elements, we make as close a distribution as possible to the requests made. In 2017, we had a positive employment pattern of 1000 jobs for private education; Among them, 35 applications were collected for the ISLRF network, and 27 posts, as you said, were opened. For 2018, 4350 positions were opened, all competitions combined, which represents a relative decrease from 2017, as the job pattern is neutral. Despite this, the ISLRF network still benefits from twenty-two positions, five fewer than in 2017, which puts it in a position comparable to other networks, and even a little more favourable. In this context of adjustment, the Diwan network was rather preserved, since, as you recalled, the number of positions offered – seven – remained the same as in 2017. We are continuing at the same rate of job creation. Over the decade, we are approaching the 300 job creations: 290 have already been granted to all the private regional language education networks, the Diwan network benefiting from one third of them, with thirty-three job creations. The agreement signed in 2015 between the Brittany region and the State, to which you refer, has therefore already benefited, for its application, from new means, and we register ourselves in the continuity of these means. It is in this multi-year vision that we must register. While the Finance Act does not provide for any additional job creation, in the general budgetary context the continuity in encouraging these languages can be welcomed. On the occasion of the school year, we also paid particular attention to the Diwan network in terms of aided contracts. It is a favourable and caring view that we consider this network, which, I repeat, must be appreciated in the general budgetary context and in the multi-annual perspective of the decade.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u182	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u183	Thank you for your reasoned answer, Minister. I would like to stress the specific convention for the transmission of the languages of Brittany. I would remind you of the commitment, which has been made by the State and the region, to reach the target of 20,000 pupils enrolled in bilingual courses, whereas today we are at 17,000. So we have room for progress. I have no doubt that we will continue a dialogue throughout this Parliament so that this can be translated into reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u184	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor to put his question, No. 40, on safety in and around schools in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u185	Mr Minister, I listened with great interest to your answer to the question on regional languages, according to which there would be five overseas languages. I want to hope that you count among those five languages, Mahorais. Otherwise, I would naturally ask you to take into account the fact that mahoray is also a regional language of the Republic. The school in Mayotte is seriously ill, minister: a competent doctor would have diagnosed a long-term condition. Indeed, you are not unaware that there is not a single day without it being the scene of a different fact. In addition to the classroom overload, which has more than 30 students, and the rotations that progress, year after year, in primary school, it is the subject of increasingly severe violence in secondary school. The overload of secondary schools is also a reality: they are designed to accommodate 600 students, and they are home to twice as many if not more. Looking at the school of the Republic in Mayotte, a particular impression emerges and, even more, a certainty: there is no school except the name, in Mayotte. Teachers, despite their will, are exhausted. Parents are worried about the safety of their children. Some even ask them to arm themselves to defend themselves in case of need. Others flee Mayotte and go to school elsewhere. Students go to school with fear in their stomachs. The parents eventually became aware that their children did not go to secondary schools to attend, but to nurseries and day-care centres, from kindergarten to senior. This explains why more and more parents no longer send their offspring to the school of the Republic, but to the private sector. This situation is compounded by attacks of all kinds: physical assaults, rackets and other multiple violence, which indiscriminately strike pupils and teachers, especially in secondary schools, both in the premises of the schools and in their immediate vicinity. On several occasions, families have requested measures to secure institutions to protect their children. These calls for help have remained virtually ineffective. In Mamoudzou, Kahani, Chiconi and Sada, to name but a few, violence in front of the school has become commonplace. In the face of these situations, teachers have no alternative but to invoke their right to withdraw. This was the case in Kahani, where, throughout December, teachers refused to take classes in order to avoid further exposing their safety and that of their students. So, Minister, my question is simple: what must happen if urgent measures to secure these state institutions are to be taken, when we have already deplored the loss of human life, particularly in Mamoudzou? I submit to you a personal saying: far from the eyes, near the heart. Mayotte may be far away, but I ask that she be close to your heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u186	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u187	Mr. Member, I am happy to make your saying my own. As you know, I have an experience as Rector of Guyana, which has many points in common with Mayotte. I have always observed with great attention the realities of Mayotte; I know how complex they are and require attention. You will agree with me that the difficulties in Mayotte's education that you mentioned are not intrinsic to the school system, but are explained by demographic factors and by the existence of a certain violence, which, unfortunately, is a mahoranist reality, and come to impose itself, in a way, on the school system. The latter, it is true, must develop strategies to respond to it. For many years, especially since the département, the State has made substantial efforts in terms of the creation of posts in the school sector. These efforts must be recognized if a proper diagnosis is to be made. To answer your question more directly, there is, as you know, a priority education policy in Mayotte. This must be developed and, in the future, adapted to the realities of Mayotte, in order to respond to the difficulties you have exposed. An evaluation of the policy of priority education in Mayotte was carried out in 2015. The analysis of the social situation has led my Ministry to classify the entire territory as a priority education network, which is an exceptional case. Also, to date, of the twenty-one colleges in the department, nine are classified as enhanced priority education – REP+ – and the others in priority education, allowing specific measures to be deployed for Mayotte, such as the duplication of classes in the preparatory course. Mayotte is indeed experiencing a violent social context, in which the school, its students and its staff are subjected to the import of external violence. That is why, in the face of the security problems that you have rightly pointed out, the Government has put in place a strengthening of preventive actions in schools with pupils, a greater commitment by the police, including a systematic presence in the vicinity of schools and bag checks in school transport, the equipment of schools in barred, fenced and video surveillance, amounting to €1.2 million in 2017, and an increase in the human and material resources for security in schools at the start of 2017, including eighty-two education assistants, twenty-two prevention and security assistants and seven senior education advisers. You see it, both in the field of school life and in the field of pedagogy, they are important means that the ministry is engaged to respond to the difficulties. But more needs to be done, given the context of the department. That is why particular attention has been paid to the establishment of mobile security teams, which have been strengthened in human resources. The Ministry of National Education accompanied the strengthening of these teams in Mayotte by the allocation of fourteen jobs on the 141 program, five of which were in the 2016 school year, and four jobs on the 140 program, in the 2017 school year. We wanted mobile security teams to respond very pragmatically to situations of violence that may occur in institutions. In addition, Mayotte has 75 management positions for 33 establishments, on average 2.3 jobs per establishment compared to 1.78 on a national average. It cannot therefore be said that Mayotte is in an unfavourable situation compared to the rest of the country. On the contrary, it benefits from specific efforts. We will continue to engage them, implementing new leadership jobs – sixteen of them have been created over the last three school years. We will also have to relax the rules, so as to take appropriate measures in the territory, to respond to these security issues, while at the same time engaging in strengthened inter-ministerial work, so that the forces of law and order are even more present in the vicinity of the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u188	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u189	Thank you for your answer, Minister, and invite you to come here, because contact on the ground is always better than a good report. You will see that access to Mayotte's establishments is a real passory. The measures you are proposing are good. However, we must be able to secure the entrances, so that we do not enter the enclosures of the establishments as we enter a mosque or a church.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u190	Mr. Laurent Garcia, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 44, concerning the status of animation and coaching agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u191	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to two occupations in schools. The municipalities are responsible for extra-curricular supervision, both in terms of school rhythms and the provision of ATSEM – specialized territorial agents of nursery schools. The Education Code provides for one ATSEM per school group, but it is not uncommon for a class of about 30 children to employ additional agents that could be described as ATSEM. The municipalities often opt for early childhood CAP officers, but this diploma is not recognized by the territorial civil service, so the remuneration paid remains close to the salary level of the maintenance workers. Under these conditions, is it possible to create a specific status for staff with these skills? In addition, with regard to the supervision and facilitation of extra-curricular activities related to the reform of school rhythms, it is not uncommon for the municipalities to hire a supervisor or referant, who contacts both parents, teachers and municipal staff, during these activities and often also outside them. However, the communes struggle to keep these agents in their posts, because the status of the territorial civil service does not make it possible to pay them better than with an improved salary of animation agent. Can we consider creating a specific status for referents or supervisors?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u192	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u193	Mr President, the two questions you are asking are very important, because they relate to the daily life of our schools, and the quality of the answers to them will have a real pedagogical and educational impact. As you know, I insist a lot on nursery school, which, by definition, is the first door for children to enter primary school. The stakes are decisive, especially for language. From this point of view, I am therefore very attentive to the training, the professional quality and the well-being at work of ATSEM. The specialized territorial officers of nursery schools working with teachers have seen their educational tasks change in recent years, particularly as a result of the reform of school rhythms. As you have pointed out, ATSEMs are placed under a dual authority: the hierarchical authority of the employing territorial community and the functional authority of school principals who must organize their contribution to the proper functioning of the classes in which they work. As far as extracurricular time is concerned, ATSEMs are the sole authority of the municipality. Their presence in both school time and extracurricular time makes them play an important role as a bridge for children, and we need them. The employment framework on which ATSEM depends has undergone significant changes. Access to this framework requires a successful competition; justifying an accompanying early childhood education CAP is normally the rule. Attentive to the engagement of these territorial agents, we decided, in conjunction with the State Secretariat for the Public Service, to publish a joint report of the General Inspectorate of National Education and the General Inspectorate of Administration on the development of this profession. I have paid particular attention to this report, of which Gérald Darmanin and I have decided to publish it, because it is precisely a step towards desirable developments. This report was prepared taking into account the position of trade union organizations, communities and territorial employers. On the basis of this work and the consultations which have been carried out in parallel, we have begun to consider several proposals which will be submitted very shortly to the opinion of the Higher Council of the Territorial Civil Service. The first is the updating of the definition of the missions of ATSEM. We can enrich them, in particular by emphasizing the link between school and extracurricular. The second is the creation of an outlet in category B, with the opening for ATSEMs of an internal competition channel for access to the framework of employment of territorial facilitator. This is obviously a direct answer to your question. The third is the recognition of the coordination function sometimes entrusted by the municipalities to certain ATSEMs, with access, if necessary, to the employment framework of the master's officers, i.e. category C plus. Of course, we will continue to work with trade union organisations and representatives of territorial employers on improving the working conditions of ATSEM. Like you, honourable Member, I believe that there is a need for greater recognition of the role and tasks of ATSEM. We must do so with the local authorities, in a perfect consensus with the communes of France. We must value the coordination function of these agents and improve their working conditions, in particular through training, which will ultimately benefit our students. The upgrading of ATSEM's function is likely to encourage more candidates to turn to this career. Today, this is a more relevant path than the creation of a new statute within the territorial civil service, to answer your second question. It will also allow for the possible inclusion of other missions. Indeed, our objective is not to multiply the statutes, but to improve the quality of each one of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u194	Mr Philippe Gomès, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 62, concerning the situation of Caledonian youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u195	Minister, as you know, New Caledonia is competent in the field of education, although the State retains the competence regarding the spine: the awarding of diplomas, the programmes, even if we have the capacity to adapt, the training of teachers, the pedagogical control. The State also continues to finance the exercise of jurisdiction, even though decision-making capacity is now in the hands of New Caledonia. The transfer has been effective since 1 January 2012 and, in this context, after several years of work, we have adopted what is known as the Caledonian educational project: making the school of the Republic a school of the country, a school of common destiny, a school of restoration of equal opportunities; and you know how much this is necessary in our country. In this educational project, of course, there is one major topic: the fight against school drop-out, which is a Caledonian cancer. I will recall a few figures: 600 young people leave our school system before the age of sixteen, without qualifications, without diplomas or jobs; they are 400 between the ages of 16 and 18 years to be in this situation. Thus, there are a total of 1,000 school dropouts out of 67,000 students. At the same time, because of the lack of suitable structures, these young school dropouts drag in the tribe, the squat, the neighborhood, the village. I very much believe in grandmother's proverbs; One of them said, "Iotentness is the mother of all vices. And indeed, juvenile delinquency is extremely important in our country: no less than 2100 minors were questioned in 2017, and development has been exponential in recent years. Of these juvenile offenders, 43 per cent are under the age of 15. In metropolitan France, juvenile delinquency accounts for 20% of community crime; That's 60% of our house. This is therefore a major problem in New Caledonia. But we collectively see that we lack the necessary tools to deal with it. Of these, one is one which, although not part of national education, deserves to be mentioned: the institution for integration into employment, which has been able to welcome young people for a period of at least 16 years, to provide them with alternance training in relation to enterprises, with military supervision. This has produced some results. I am also thinking of other tools that are particularly relevant to national education or the medical, social and educational field. The ITEPs, educational and pedagogical therapeutic institutes, have the mission of welcoming young people with deviant, difficult behaviour, with serious difficulties of socialization. There are 400 in the metropolitan area, 7 in the overseas departments. However, if there is a place in the Republic where an ITEP must be established, it is indeed in New Caledonia. We must be able to have such a tool. In the same way, EREAs, regional institutions of adapted education, welcome young people in situations of serious educational or social difficulties, or school break, with difficulties in accessing apprenticeships. Here too, there are 80 EREAs in the metropolis, and 1 overseas, in Mayotte, it seems to me. Again, such a tool would allow us, for one part, to regain our hands, to give a chance to this school population in a situation of rupture, which, unfortunately, as the years pass, takes the road to Camp East, the Caledonian prison. Therefore, Minister, my question is as follows: Is the State ready to accompany us, even if many of these subjects are now within the competence of New Caledonia, in the creation of indispensable tools to offer a new chance to a young Caledonian in a situation of rupture with regard to the school system?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u196	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u197	Mr President, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to recall that we are truly committed to the same objectives as you, in this case the successful integration of all young people into the labour market. As you said, the competence of the State in primary and secondary education has been largely transferred to New Caledonia, which has adopted an educational project through the deliberation of the Congress of 15 January 2016 on the future of the Caledonian school. Nevertheless, the State remains at the side of New Caledonia to assist it in the implementation of its educational policy, including through the single system of free and comprehensive provision of State personnel dating from the transfer of powers of 1 January 2012. A memorandum of understanding was signed on 26 October 2016 between New Caledonia and the State which sets out the modalities for accompanying the implementation of the educational project for the period 2017-2019. Of course, we respect him. It specifies the aid and the means, both human and financial, provided by the State. I would like to list them, and establish their connection to the question you have just asked. The first objective is to develop the identity of the Caledonian school, paying particular attention to the fact that the definition of the common basis of knowledge, skills and culture is contextualized in relation to the territory, while contributing to the fact that every young person, at the end of compulsory schooling, i.e. at the age of 16, has actually acquired this foundation, which is the first vaccine against school drop-out. The second objective is to consider the diversity of audiences for a school of success, a school of equal opportunities, to repeat your remarks. To this end, thirty-five positions, of which twenty-eight teaching jobs were created for four new BTS. Finally, for the first time in this session, the written exams for general and technological baccalaureates will be corrected in New Caledonia, which will allow students to regain school time in November, which is valuable. The third objective is to anchor the school in its environment, both culturally and ecologically, and to open it to its international environment. Of course, we must also pay attention to the expectations you have just expressed. An interesting example of state support in New Caledonia is the creation of two new high schools, Pouembout and Mont-Dore. The latter was inaugurated last November by the Prime Minister on the occasion of his visit to New Caledonia. Thanks to these two constructions, nearly 1500 students will be accommodated in the general, technological and vocational courses offered in these two schools. This should allow for new opportunities for Caledonian youth. State funding for these two projects amounts to EUR 45 million. However, we can eventually go further, and I will be paying attention in the future to the concerns you have raised. The national policy to combat early school leaving, in particular, is as relevant as it is to be in New Caledonia, if not more so, than in metropolitan France. The system is open to enable technology transfer, in particular to identify students who have dropped out of school digitally. We must also be able to develop the devices you mentioned, in connection with the army or with the social administrations, respecting the transferred competences. We are obviously ready to study this with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u198	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor for a very brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u199	I will be all the more brief since I am the last speaker, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u200	[[Smile]] I didn't miss it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u201	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, and even if jurisdiction has been transferred to us, we need state support for the installation of the tools I mentioned, including the EARA and the ITEP. The Government of New Caledonia will certainly ask you to make this support a reality so that these essential tools can be put in place to give our young people a new chance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u202	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-19-O1104.u203	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote on the draft law on the orientation and success of students; Setting of the agenda; Final reading of the bill ending the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and laying down various provisions on energy and the environment; Discussion, in further reading, of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
