ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u1	Before addressing the agenda, I would like to express the deep emotion of the entire national representation following the dramatic accident yesterday in Millas, in the Pyrénées-Orientales. Our thoughts go to the victims, their families and their loved ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u2	The next item is the debate on the finance bill for 2018 (No.485, 496) and on the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022 (No.378, 495). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a joint general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u4	Madam President, allow me first of all to associate myself, on behalf of the Government and as the Prime Minister did yesterday, with the pain of the representatives of the nation in the face of this terrible accident that has affected France and French families. Madam President, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, what a pleasure it is to meet you again in the gallery to deliver a speech on a financial text! I fear that, unfortunately, this pleasure repeated many times since July will end in the coming week – but everyone will understand, and Mr de Courson in particular, that we must know how to end a war. We are gathered here to review, in new reading, both the 2018 Finance Bill and the 2018 Public Finance Programming Act to 2022, as there were many disagreements between the two chambers in the Joint Joint Committee on these two texts. If one believes the adage, either there is a global agreement, or there is no agreement on anything: there has obviously been no agreement on anything, since we are back. This new reading will therefore be an opportunity for me to revisit the causes of this double failure, which are of three orders. First, the two chambers disagree on the balance of public finances themselves. The Senate has adopted an ambitious trajectory, with a structural adjustment of 0.6 points in 2018, or 12 billion euros of additional efforts to be made, but without, alas, providing any figures illustrating the impact on our fellow citizens of the public finance objective thus defined by the Senate majority. It is nice to want to maintain a trajectory that France has not maintained for many years, but it would probably be clearer and more sensible to explain where we find these 12 billion and what the consequences will be for the concrete lives of the French, for our companies, for the purchasing power and, finally, for public action. I also observe, if the High Assembly allows me to do so, that it is probably the same people who are asking Mr Dussopt, Mr Le Maire, Mrs Gény-Stephann or myself for more public expenditure, while proposing a further effort of 0.6 points on the general trajectory: look for error! What does a structural effort of 0.6 percentage points of GDP mean for our citizens? What does the High Assembly forsake? To the abolition of the rebate of the housing tax, for 3 billion euros? At the creation of the property tax – IFI? At the creation of the single flat-rate levy – PFU? Even if these three flagship measures were abandoned, there would still be EUR 5 billion to be documented. This is therefore a political position, which, unfortunately, is more a matter of the posture than of the good governance of our public finances and which we cannot subscribe to. Conversely, the presidential majority present in the National Assembly, pragmatic and responsible, has managed to preserve the great balances of the text presented by the Government and not to give up its campaign commitments: on the contrary, it finances them and makes them effective, while maintaining the level of structural adjustment scheduled for 2018 and subsequent years. I would also like to return to the specific nature of our discussions on how local authorities should be involved in the correction of our public accounts. Indeed, after the additions of the National Assembly and the Senate at first reading, the proposals of the mission of former minister Alain Richard and prefect Dominique Bur must allow us to go further in the definition of the mechanism of contracting – as I had committed myself here at the time of the presentation of this mechanism – the financial recovery and the enhancement, in the framework of the consultation with the elected representatives and their representatives that the Second National Conference of Territories allowed, as some have seen yesterday, as I, in Cahors or, quite simply, in the course of the lengthy discussions that we have had for the last seven months. This is a new mechanism which, I would remind you, is the Government's counter-commitment not to reducing allocations to local authorities. We were able to finalize, in the dialogue with the elected associations, section 10 of the law on public finance programming that I will present to you today. Indeed, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, and I apologise in advance to the National Assembly, it seems to me normal that, if the consultation with the local elected representatives should continue, this consultation, which does not detract from the Assembly's power of amendment and amendment – you have, I believe, ideas on the matter – will allow us to present to you a text which is the fruit of the final agreement between certain elected associations and the Government. Secondly, the main contributions of the Senate in terms of revenue naturally led Members and Senators to note their disagreements in the Joint Joint Committee, so much the differences in direction given to the two texts were evident. I will take several examples to convince us and justify this beautiful day of Friday – even the night of Friday to Saturday – that we are going to spend together. Thus, the senatorial majority preferred to raise the family quotient ceiling from 1527 to 1750 euros per half share for income tax 2018, rather than implement, as we propose, the housing tax relief as early as 2018. It is a choice that is all the more incomprehensible because it is based on the double observation – that, moreover, we share – of the obsolescence of its bases and the need to recast, in the long term, local taxation. From this point of view, the speech of the President of the Republic to the Congress of Mayors was able to bring water to the mill of those who, at first reading, considered that the abolition of the housing tax should be completed. The Senate majority also made the choice to remove the carbon trajectory beyond 2018, while the National Assembly voted on it, conscious of the ecological urgency that we must collectively face and present, moreover, in the programmes of all candidates in the presidential election. Again, it is an eminently political choice, much more than a budgetary one. The solidarity tax on wealth has been completely abolished, without taking into account the impact of a dry removal of this tax on both public finances and the very structure of our economy. To put it another way: the idea of differential taxation of rent for the benefit of the productive economy has not received the consent of senators, despite its obvious advantages – the opposition of the Republicans group to the National Assembly being in the matter in coherence with the Senate majority. Finally, the Senate wished to maintain the level of funds allocated to local and regional authorities under the former parliamentary reserve, while the organic legislator explicitly provided for its abolition. Evidence of the budgetary irresponsibility of the Senate majority: following the examination of the first part of the finance bill, the government's budgetary balance stood at less than €86.4 billion, down by more than €3 billion from the budgetary balance presented in the draft finance law – which, it is true, takes into account the impact of the contentious cancellation of the tax on dividends to 3%. How can we achieve 0.6% additional structural adjustments while degrading the government's budgetary balance by more than 3 billion? This question echoes the discussion we had during the discussion of the Social Security Funding Bill, where Senate choices were deeply increasing the budgets of the associations. The third and not least cause of the CMP's failure is the examination of the second part of the finance bill. Indeed, as you know, all the votes on the second part of this bill, and in particular the rejection of five missions from the general budget, have led to a completely artificial reduction in state spending of EUR 51.4 billion. Thus, the text adopted by the Senate does not provide for a single euro for the missions "Work and employment", "Security", "Justice", "Immigration, asylum and integration" and "Agriculture, food, forestry and rural affairs". In fact, it is easier to save money if we do not spend a euro on work, security, justice, immigration and agriculture. Let me return to these points. On the "Work and employment" mission, I would like in particular to point out that the Government triples the budgetary effort for training young people and the long-term unemployed, making it all the more incomprehensible the rejection of the appropriations, since it is accompanied by a reduction in the number of assisted contracts – there will still be 200000 next year – and responds, it seems to me, to highly repeated requests in previous years, at least to the centre and right of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u5	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u6	On the "Security" mission, I regret the attitude of both criticizing the Government for an insufficient increase in the Mission's appropriations and, at the same time, not giving it any euro! With regard to the Justice mission, the proposed budget is up by almost 4%, including an increase of 5% in operating appropriations – never before seen! – investment and intervention, as well as the creation of more than a thousand jobs. In addition, the creation of an additional 15,000 prison places remains a government priority, which will be initiated next year with the opening of three institutions. The choice to reject these credits is therefore, once again, incomprehensible. On the subject of housing and the famous article 52, despite the Government's sincere efforts to outline a compromise with the representatives of social housing and the Senate majority, it must be noted that such an agreement remained unattainable without compromising our fiscal trajectory and the great balances of the finance bill. That is why it will be up to the National Assembly to have the last word on this subject. However, a very important event occurred the day before yesterday, since a substantial part of the HLM movement, representing almost 50% of this rental stock, signed a memorandum of understanding with the Government on the basis of the text we are presenting to you today. In conclusion, I would like to speak with you about a series of convergences that deserve to be noted. I am thinking first of all of the reform of the parliamentary procedure leading to the vote on the finance law and, in particular, the approximation of the discussion of the revenue provisions, whether fiscal or social. According to the Senate's general rapporteur, Alberic de Montgolfier, whose excellent work I would like to highlight – not as excellent as with Joël Giraud, but excellent though – this would allow Parliament to take a more informed look at the overall coherence of the government's policy on compulsory levies. Beyond this procedural remark, which is important, it is sufficient to go through the various reports of senators and deputies on these two texts to convince ourselves of the points of agreement between the two chambers. Regarding the sincerity of this finance bill, everyone will have noted that the Government is breaking with the habits of its predecessors. Thus, in Volume 1 of his report, the Senate's rapporteur-general states that "the Government seems to commit itself to returning to a practice that is more in line with the principle of parliamentary authorization of expenditure. Further on, the latter also states that "the limits of appropriations proposed for the vote of Parliament for 2018 undoubtedly have less construction bias than the budget presented, under the previous mandate, for 2017, whose questionable sincerity had motivated the Senate's refusal to examine it. » Looking at the various missions in the general budget, I note, as an illustration, that, according to Mr.De Legge, Special Rapporteur of the "Defence" mission in the Senate and belonging to the Republican Group, "the 2018 budget has various reasons for satisfaction and should be able to meet the needs of the armed forces in general. » Similarly, according to Mr Capus, Special Rapporteur of the "Work and Employment" mission, which does not belong to the majority, the appropriations of the mission "will be maintained at a very high level [and] will allow the funding of the schemes for the employment of young people and the least qualified", in particular through the launch of the competence investment plan. Moreover, with regard to aided contracts, the rapporteur speaks in terms that we could share when he says that "Without challenging the usefulness of these jobs for local authorities and the voluntary sector, they are no less precarious subsidised contracts and, therefore, a short-term response, sometimes motivated by purely statistical reasons, to the problem of unemployment. » Finally, to address another mission of the State budget, Mr Longuet, Special Rapporteur of the mission "School education", who welcomes both "a rebalancing in favour of the first degree", which seems to "go in the right direction" and "an evaluation approach, which has unfortunately been lacking the education system for too long". I would like to point out here, because this is not enough said, that higher education and national education are experiencing the biggest increase in their appropriations under this government in 20 years. You see, beyond ideological postures and lines of sharing, responsible positions are taken; I know that this has also been the case here, in a dialogue that seemed constructive, pragmatic and respectful of the positions of the Government, the opposition and the majority. I hope that the day we are going to spend together will allow us both to have an interesting moment of democratic life with the control of the Government, and to re-establish the text adopted at first reading by your Assembly, even if the Government remains open to substantial amendments from your chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u7	We hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u8	[[Smile. –Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I am very happy, Mr Roussel, to spend this day and evening with you, which will, however, prevent me from running the company you created without my consent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u9	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u10	Madam President, first of all, allow me to take up the words of solidarity you spoke at the opening of this sitting concerning the disaster in the Pyrénées-Orientales. Today we are entering the final straight line of the Budget Marathon with the review, in new reading, of two founding financial texts of this new legislature: the 2018 Finance Bill and the 2018 Public Finance Programming Bill to 2022. I do not hesitate to talk about the founding texts given the scale of the tax reforms that we have undertaken and that we have embarked on a credible path of restoring our public accounts. These texts are based on assumptions that have been considered realistic by the High Council for Public Finance. Efforts on the sincerity of budgeting were welcomed, including on some opposition benches. The Public Finance Programming Bill sets the framework until 2022. It is based on a virtuous triangle, with three inseparable objectives: the restoration of public accounts, the reduction of compulsory levies and the reduction of public expenditure. The objective is, and remains, to get out of the excessive government deficit procedure as early as next year and to achieve a near budgetary balance at the end of the quinquennium. The pace of structural adjustment has been defined to reconcile the objectives of restoring public accounts and supporting growth. The 2018 Finance Bill implements the commitments made by the President of the Republic during the election campaign with an important tax reduction program and, beyond that, a transformation of our tax system for greater economic efficiency. Our taxation will also be fairer with the first step of removing the housing tax for 80% of households. This anti-distributive tax is based on outdated tax bases. As of 2018, €3 billion in purchasing power will be returned to households with modest and medium incomes; It will be more than 10 billion by 2020. The Senate approved some of these tax reforms, including the one-time tax levy, the reduction of the corporate tax rate and the replacement of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – with a reduction in social contributions. On the other hand, the Senate has not followed us on several major issues, including housing tax reform. He did not follow us either on the creation of the property tax – IFI – and the increase of various taxes on external signs of wealth. Above all, you recalled, minister, the Senate rejected the appropriations of five budget missions, leading to an artificial and unrealistic improvement of the budget balance of more than 50 billion euros – it is certain that when we do not spend anything on the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs", we make money! The Senate has also expressed its support for a more sustained pace of structural adjustment, which we do not believe is relevant to achieving the restoration of our public accounts while at the same time supporting growth. Under these circumstances, the Joint Joint Committee meeting on Wednesday quickly found it impossible to reach an agreement. That is why we need a new reading, which is a mandatory step before we can get a final reading next Thursday. The Finance Committee of our assembly therefore discussed yesterday, in new reading, the budget for 2018 and the programming for 2018 to 2022. For today's public sitting, I would point out that there is a procedural difference between the consideration of the finance bill and that of the public finance programming bill. For the finance bill, we have before us the text adopted by the Senate at first reading: that is why you will find that the committee is introducing a number of amendments to restore the wording of the articles in the version that we have completed at first reading or to delete articles inserted by the Senate, with which we disagree. On the other hand, with regard to the draft law on the programming of public finances, we are today considering, at the sitting, the text adopted yesterday by the Committee on Finance for a new reading. We have a total of 179 articles for these two texts to re-read, that is, all the articles that the Senate has inserted or has not adopted in a version identical to ours at first reading. In detail, the draft finance bill, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 27 September 2017, contained 64 articles, one of which was an introductory article. The National Assembly inserted 106 additional articles and deleted 2 articles. For its part, the Senate adopted "compliant" 91 articles and confirmed the deletion of 2 articles; This means that the Senate agreed with more than half of the text we forwarded to it. These adopted articles are no longer under discussion, in accordance with the funnel rule. But the Senate also deleted 23 articles, amended and adopted 56 articles and inserted 71 additional articles. A total of 150 articles remain under discussion in this finance bill. In committee, I have proposed the adoption of 45 articles in the version of the Senate's proceedings. Adding the 91 compliant articles would make a total of 136 articles adopted in the same terms by our two assemblies, which should represent nearly three quarters of the final text. In addition, I have also proposed 15 new articles incorporating some of the Senate's contributions. These figures demonstrate the usefulness of the shuttle and the undeniable enrichment of the text it has allowed. On the other hand, for the remaining 90 articles, I proposed to reinstate 37 articles in the version adopted by the National Assembly and delete 53. That is the meaning of the committee's amendments that I will defend throughout this day and probably this night. The draft law on public finance programming adopted by the Council of Ministers initially contained 29 articles. We added 4 at first reading; the Senate has adopted "conformity" 11 articles, i.e. one third of the text transmitted; Therefore, these articles are no longer under discussion. The Senate also amended 20 articles, added 7 articles and deleted 2 articles. As a result, we have 29 articles before us again on this public finance programming bill. Of these 29 articles, 19 were adopted by the committee without amendment in relation to the text transmitted by the Senate. Again, more than three quarters of the final text should be adopted in identical terms by the two Assemblies. This shows that there have been more points of convergence than the points of divergence, even though the points of divergence may be relatively larger politically than the points of convergence. A final word to commend the work done by the Prime Minister's mission to Mr. Alain Richard and Mr. Dominique Bur. The Commission has made proposals to amend the contractual arrangements for the control of local finances. The subject was discussed yesterday at the National Conference of Territories; I have no doubt that the Minister will give us a useful insight into the position of the Government. Articles 10 and 24 of the Law on the Programming of Public Finances require an educational effort, which will be carried out mainly on the bench. Before concluding, allow me two more political remarks on a number of provisions contained in the Finance Bill. On Article 52 on housing, let me say to you, Minister, that we need to reach a more acceptable compromise on the subject of the LPA – personalized housing assistance – "accession" to zone 3, that is, the area that does not include agglomerations, major cities and very particular areas such as the Côte d'Azur and what I usually call maliciously the "département français du Léman". This leverage allowed a number of successful homeownership acquisitions, particularly in rural areas. On the occasion of the discussion of Article 52, we must be able to talk about it in a very open manner. Another subject, which we have often mentioned here, is the allocation of compensation for the reform of the trade tax, known as DCRTP. This issue is important because the discourse that the overall operating allocation will not fall for the first time, even if it is real, comes up against the reality of the trend and significant decline this year in the DCRTP. This significant decline must be compensated, mitigated and moderated for a number of communities. The Government tabled an amendment that we were unable to consider this morning at the meeting of the committee that was held pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. This amendment also needs to be improved, as it provides for stronger solidarity with urban municipalities than with rural municipalities. As regards the allocation of compensation for the occupational tax, a small commune of 3000, 4000 or 5000 inhabitants, having had the misfortune of losing a large industrial fabric and sometimes half of its population, is in an even more dramatic situation than an urban municipality maintaining a relatively large tax area. These are two issues that I would like us to address more specifically during the discussion. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is what I wanted to clarify in the introduction to our discussions. We will debate more precisely, amendment by amendment. There are many, but I have no doubt that everyone will be able to be synthetic in that it is a new reading and that most of the subjects to be dealt with have already given rise to a lot of debate this autumn, both in committee and in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u11	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u12	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, since this is a new reading, I will also call on you to show a spirit of synthesis when considering the amendments. Both the Minister and the rapporteur-general referred to the CMP. As part of the opposition, I share much of the arguments put forward by the Senate. Our political priorities are not the same: if they converge in part, they diverge in large part. I want to give a few examples, and first of all on growth. While the growth we are experiencing today would make it possible to do a lot of things, you are not making full use of it. It is imported growth, inherited growth, and not yet growth due to internal factors. It explains many small government renunciations of reforms. Only profound reforms would improve the structural balance of our public finances. This structural balance is itself called into question by the European Commission. Commissioner Moscovici, whom we were hearing yesterday, said that the Government's efforts had a marginal impact on reducing this famous structural balance. We cannot depend on the economic conditions and the favourable or less favourable winds of the world economy. This key question may seem theoretical, but its impact on the French is extremely concrete. In this programming bill as in its implementation through the finance bill, the public deficit flirts with the 3% of GDP mark. In essence, we do not come out of this matter: we only reduce things at the end of the journey. Are we 2.9%, are we 3%? All this probably depends on Eurostat for this year. In any case, we find it very difficult to take off 3% despite this period of growth. The rapporteur-general of the Senate, to whom you paid tribute, has shown that growth has reduced the deficit by 0.4 percentage points of GDP for 2017. Without it we would not be 2.9%, but 3.3%. It is therefore clear that this text does not really sound like the mobilisation needed for a more effective, direct, stronger and powerful settlement of our deficits, including our structural deficit. The key concept is, of course, expenditure. However, this budget does not reduce expenditure as much as it should. In this regard, the Government is very timid. He also shows great injustice, Minister. While government spending will increase by 1.7 percentage points in volume, since Cahors you only allow a 1.2 percentage point increase to local authorities, which the text confirms, whether through contracts or public expenditure targets. It is clear that the idea is to lock down local government spending. So lock the government's spending in the same way! This blatant injustice is completely incomprehensible. Do not ask local authorities to do what the State is unable to do. As for our fundamental disagreements, you know them. The reduction of the housing tax to the benefit of a part of the French is obviously a popular measure – how would it not be? – but is it so urgent for our fellow citizens? Is it not urgent to improve competitiveness and wealth creation? On this the budget is quite silent, that's the least we can say. There is also the increase of the CSG for a large part of the French, especially for pensioners, the levy at source which has been the subject of many amendments coming from these banks and many other subjects that are worth discussing, such as the methods of calculating this levy at source, which will be the responsibility of the companies, all to the detriment of the competitiveness which is the key to the French recovery. Finally, Mr Minister, there is a real surprise with regard to the IFI, which replaces the tax on wealth. You need to tell us very clearly what the IFI's calculation methods will be. We understood that the IFI was the same thing as the ISF but limited to real estate. That is what the President of the Republic has said on many occasions, that is what you have said here and what Bruno Le Maire also said. The reality is different. Some taxpayers, who were subject to the ISF only on a real estate basis, will be liable for a higher IFI than they owe under the ISF because the calculation methods are different. Exemptions from the IFI in particular are almost non-existent. We must have a debate on this extremely important point which requires real clarification. The IFI will be higher than the ISF for real estate. You have to correct that, or at least you will enlighten us if we misunderstood, which I do not believe. I therefore regret that this text has not evolved further in the light of the amendments tabled by the opposition and the wording proposed by the Senate. This is a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u14	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u15	Mr Minister, Mr Chairman of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final straight line of the review of the PLF for 2018 which, before being submitted to the Senate, was corrected in two steps. It was initially increased by EUR 10 billion in additional expenditure due to shareholders who claimed even more money and a Brussels decision. It was also an opportunity, unfortunately, to introduce the tax on income at source, which we are a great deal to consider costly, unnecessary, complex and dangerous. This text comes back to the Senate, as the members of the Republicans have proposed here, and it adds to new spending – I am thinking in particular of the ISF, the Senate having decided to restore equality between the rich by completely abolishing the ISF, whether for movable or immovable property – and also aggravated in the sense of greater austerity. However, I note some improvements, on points on which we had the same concerns, whether these are the few advances in the fight against tax optimisation or against abuses with regard to flat tax or the raising of certain ceilings, in accordance with demands from the trade unions of the Banque de France. I hope that it will not only be the amendments that aggravate this PLF for 2018 in the sense of more austerity and inequality that will be adopted here, but unfortunately I do not believe that the few improvement amendments will have been voted on tonight. In any case, this will not fundamentally change what this PLF offers us, which could be summed up as follows: a lot of gifts to the richest and a salty note for almost all of our fellow citizens. Let's take a look at this. You allocate 9 billion tax gifts to the wealthiest through the abolition of the ISF on movable property – 3.5 billion; the flat tax, which limits the tax on capital income to 30% – 1.5 billion; the abolition of the dividend tax, requested by Brussels and then the Constitutional Council, without even questioning at Brussels level this tax on dividends in the coming years. And I'm not even talking about the high-wage tax, which you're removing. All of this is in addition to the CICE, a special gift to companies that are not subject to any constraints and whose amount can be estimated at 100 billion for about 100,000 jobs created or simply maintained, which makes employment very expensive. Nor am I talking about the reduction in corporate tax, which is also not accompanied by any control, any constraint, any shift towards employment or equal pay, for example. Moreover, this text is largely insinuating – it will certainly be the subject of an appeal to the Constitutional Council of the New Left, GDR and France groups. Indeed, the expected revenue reductions due to both the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax, will most likely be very underestimated, as I said here a few weeks ago, especially because of the real tax shield that you are putting in place for the richest. Gabriel Zucman, in an article published in Le Monde on October 25, 2018, one month after the law was introduced, showed in a completely clear way that from the moment when dividends are taxed less than direct income from work, whether it is executive salaries or management fees, a boon effect is created that favours a transfer of these income to dividends. Calculating the product of this flat tax from the current dividends therefore makes no sense: it must be calculated from the mass of dividends to be paid in year n+ 1 or n+2 and which, according to Gabriel Zucman, amount to at least ten billion euros. As a result, this flat tax will cost the state much more than you say in your budget. Let us not forget that this flat tax is fifteen additional points of difference in favour of taxation of capital compared to that of labour, the greatest disparity in the history of the Fifth Republic, or even of our Republic, in favour of income from uninvested capital. When we were alerting you about this danger of transferring to dividends, Minister, you told us that in imagining that this could happen, that someone had this idea in a French company, it would concern only a very small number of employee shareholders and that the tax control would obviously be difficult for the taxpayer in question and for the companies. I do not know why, Mr Darmanin, the French taxpayer would be more virtuous than the American taxpayer. I don't know what study you're using to make such a difference. And when in the same sentence you considered this figure of 10 billion to be pharmaminous, I would like to know on which assessment, concrete, rational, you rely to contradict the words of Gabriel Zucman – we may have the opportunity during this session to hear your explanations. As for the transformation of the ISF into an IFI, it will also provide many opportunities for tax optimization – the Capital newspaper has made it a list. This will extend the duration of the loan on real estate assets or then purchase securities from commercial real estate companies rather than movable assets. The abolition of the ISF on movable property will in fact cost the State much more than expected, and so we will most certainly be well beyond the 9 billion tax gifts that I mentioned earlier, unless, ladies and gentlemen, you react this afternoon or unless the Council of State repeats this part of the budget, which I hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u16	The Council of State has already said it's OK! You probably want to talk about the Constitutional Council!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u17	The Constitutional Council, excuse me! Thank you for that correction, Minister. These 9 billions are going to be paid by all of us because you are complying with the Brussels golden rule that requires you not to have a public deficit of more than 3% of GDP. This dividend tax case, half of which will be paid to shareholders from the state budget, shows that, as often happens, we don't care about the explosion of deficits when it comes to paying back shareholders or socialising bank losses, as was the case in 2010. Attention is paid to public expenditure only when it concerns almost all French people, and not when it is for the benefit of capital. We are therefore going to pay them all by making EUR 15.6 billion less expenditure and by saving EUR 4.1 billion on social expenditure, in particular through this extraordinary solution of ensuring that patients spend as few nights in hospital as possible, regardless of their state of health. I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that you all know people around you, like me, who have had to leave the hospital far too early at the cost of subsequent complications. It is this situation that we are proposed to aggravate, as announced by the famous sentence pronounced by the president of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, Martin Hirsch, on France Inter not long ago explained that a hotel night was much cheaper than a night at the hospital: it is obvious that both are comparable and that someone who goes to the hospital is actually looking for only a hotel night! We see clearly what these budgetary savings will mean: a reduction of 1.8 % in the LPA, 1.5 billion less in favour of employment policy. I quote these three examples because, look at all the polls, it is each time the three priorities of the French that you amputate considerably. In addition to this is the decrease in the allocations of local and regional authorities – with this question that we have discussed: is it a reduction in the allocations as such or a decrease in their progress? In any case, the effect will be the same since from 2018 on, local and regional authorities will have even less money to carry out all their tasks. I would also point out that, at the last quinquennium, their allocations fell by 10 billion. This therefore continues and gets worse with the famous abolition, in three stages, of the housing tax, which is in no way an improvement for the most disadvantaged French people since they were already exempt from it. On the other hand, it will cost local authorities 10 billion. You have, of course, argued against the euro, but as the history of local authorities and decentralisation teaches us the opposite, you will understand my extreme mistrust – and I note that this is also the case for most elected associations. Such an end, of course, will worsen the budgetary situation of the communities. We will all pay for such a situation by increasing the CSG by 1.7 percentage points, which we are told will be offset by a reduction in social contributions, which we are contesting, because we believe it is a reduction in the socialised wage and that in fact we will take in one pocket of the employees what we have given them in the other. Moreover, timing will not compensate for an increase that will be immediate. You add to this decline the largest social plan, particularly for local and regional authorities, with the removal of 270,000 assisted contracts, which you have often dared to call "baby jobs" when we all know they are effective for associations, etc. Communities will therefore suffer, as well as sectors important for the lives of French people such as housing, with the reduction of the LPA or the tax on social housing, but also as the environmental sector, which should not suffer from any decline in public funding if one wants to be at the meeting that the President of the Republic has set himself – in words, but little in actions – on the issue of climate. When we introduce a carbon tax that only affects individuals and not had them – we have proposed a kerosene tax – or the largest polluting companies, of course, all this does not go very far. On the other hand, you are attacking a large number of public operators who act in the field of the environment. I am thinking of Météo France, the Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobilité et l'aménagement – CEREMA – which you are putting at risk of death and the French water agencies, from which you are removing an important part of the budget. From this point of view, I hope that the amendments voted in the Senate will be retained, as they are more moderate and benevolent than the provisions of the original text. Finally, with regard to the budget for higher education – which we are discussing at the same time – I note that the increase of 200 million does not correspond to the number of students who will arrive at the university, since 650 million would have been needed to maintain a simple stability of resources per student. It is therefore the decline in public investment for students that will continue, as we have seen for years in the country. I would be bad for not mentioning the public service of audiovisual which, according to the Head of State, is "a shame" for France. The budget allocated to it, in any case, is a real shame: less than 17 million for Radio France, less 20 million for France Télévisions, and the number of regional antennas in France 3 will disappear. Finally, the public service is heavily penalized with the increase in the number of waiting days introduced by an amendment of the Senate – I hope we will go back to it – and the freeze on the remuneration of public servants – I recall that the point of index had already been frozen between 2010 and 2016 – not to mention the abolition of jobs in the public service because of this stupid logic of non-replacement of one public servant out of two retired parties while all public services suffer from it, as well as the capacity of the state. That's where we are! Last resort in this museum of horrors that is the finance bill: finally nothing or almost nothing is done about the tax evasion that is presented to us as a scourge, a problem of democracy. Brussels has looked at it in a rather amusing way through the issue of tax havens by removing almost all of the people it has listed, especially those in Europe, without proposing any concrete measures that can really combat this scourge – we have mentioned Bercy's lock and I want to trust the president of the current mission to ensure that it is carried out in a successful manner – without also forbidding banks that continue to trade with these tax havens to have a licence, without hiring the necessary number of officials, without differential taxation. This will be a test in this area: what will be the reaction of the majority here with regard to the new articles 46 quater A and 46 quater B from the Senate penalising tax optimisation a little more?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u18	Thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u19	I conclude on one point. When the Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr Le Maire, explained to us the validity of his policy of giving capital so much to enable productive investment and to promote job creation, we asked him what he was basing himself on to think that this money would, if I dare say so, go well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u20	Thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u21	He spoke to us of common sense, and this budget is particularly lacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u22	Bravo! It was very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u23	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u24	I will vote on this motion, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u25	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor for the La République on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u26	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, allow us – fortunately for the French and French! – to have a different, positive, optimistic and realistic reading of the budget that you dare to describe as a museum of horrors. Support the French who work and encourage the resumption of activity, succeed the economic transformation of France, fight effectively against unemployment, transform policies to improve the lives of the French, accompany the ecological transition, support our armies, support the forces of security and justice, succeed the transformation of our public policies through investment, these are the ambitions of our budget, presented today in new reading. And you'd like us to give it up? This offensive budget, founder for the entire quinquennium, this five-year roadmap, would you like us to give it up? This budget, which frees up capital to enable companies to innovate and create jobs, this budget which protects the most modest and fragile, this budget which aims to encourage investment and can therefore enable countless projects to be carried out in our territories, this budget which will allow us to free up, protect and invest more, would you like us to renounce it? To reduce inequalities in education and in the territories is our budget! Changing logic by ceasing to redistribute money that we do not have, is our budget, a budget for a fair France, where everyone can evolve and find their place, a bold, balanced and sincere budget that we will not give up! The French deserve better than renunciation, a political renunciation that they have known well and for too long. We were elected not to do as before, but to do differently, to try something else. With this budget, that's what we do! This budget is geared towards French and French people: it aims to improve their daily lives. Its vote will not be an outcome, but a beginning, because we will then do everything possible to accompany the reforms. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For all these reasons, we in the majority group will not vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u27	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u28	It would be fun, ladies and gentlemen, if we voted on this motion to reject it beforehand. Indeed, what would happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u29	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u30	The provisional twelfths as of January 1st, and we're back for two or three months! That wouldn't be bad...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u31	[[Smile]] We'd save money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u32	...to devote almost six months of the year to examining one budget, then not to vote in fine, then to vote another. That would be pretty funny! That's the form. In substance, Mr Coquerel, you know that our group is in favour of companies, because we will not recover our country if we do not improve their competitiveness. In fact, you could blame the Government for the opposite of what you say, Mr. Coquerel: not to go any further. We will return to that during the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u33	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to section 91, paragraph 5, of the regulation on the draft law on the programming of public finances for the years 2018 to 2022. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u34	Again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u35	Don't worry, it will be complementary to the previous motion! I know that we do not have the right in the House to present magazines or anything else, but I hope that you all bought Le Monde yesterday, which contains an excellent dossier on inequalities. He explains that one third of the world's growth since the 1980s has been captured by the 1 per cent of the richest. He explains that France has for a long time slowed this trend, but that between 1983 and 2014 the average income of the 1 per cent of the richest has increased by 98 per cent, compared with 31 per cent for the rest of the population. It is only to see, in all statistics, the increase in the share of dividends in GDP to understand what type of income has exploded. I would remind you that we have, for example, the European dividend record and that CAC 40 companies, from this point of view, have no lesson to learn from other companies in Europe. Yet, despite its efforts, France is still lagging behind countries where inequalities are even more flagrant. I show you subreptitiously the first page of the World, but above all I invite you to read it: even Europe is still lagging behind with 37% of the national income held by the richest 10%, while in the Middle East this share is 61% and in the United States 47%, etc. Everything happens as if the standard meter of human progress was no longer the reduction of inequalities, but their deepening in favour of the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u36	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u37	I hope that you will all agree: it is an absolutely deleterious, regressive race to the scale, from a civilizational point of view, since in the end it is all the rest of the population and the states that pays the mark of these distortions, starting with the poorest. I heard earlier the speech of one of my colleagues from the Republic on the move. I reassure her: this policy is nothing new. It is even very old and one can smell, in a sense, the smoke of the venties. I have referred to Mr Le Maire's famous sentence, which is an honest response to us, according to which raising the income of capital would help to promote the productive investments of tomorrow and the jobs of the day. You know like me that Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, in 1974, said exactly the same thing. In this way he anticipated in a certain way the break-up of the 1980s, of Mrs Thatcher, of Mr Reagan, even though it was mitigated in France. The World shows that the breakdown dates back to 1983, with progress for the richest and no longer for all, when the decision was also made to deindex wages and prices, just as, if I understand correctly, the Government is about to deindex SMIC. Since then, no matter what you say, the share of capital's income has continued to grow at the expense of labour. Finally, you tell us that this is not enough and that we must not compare ourselves with those who reduce inequalities, but we must conform to those who increase them in favour of capital. That's what your budget is for. Your budget needs to be examined in the context of international competition to attract capital and, in reality, aims to strengthen the trend and explosive rise in profit rates. In today's world, the gap between the financial economy and the real economy continues to grow. So what we have to ask ourselves is not whether a speculative crisis will occur, but when it will happen. From this point of view, all the growth forecasts on which your budgets are based, because they have nothing to do with the policies carried out here, but they are linked to the structural rebounds inherent in capitalism – which economists know well –, these forecasts, I said, could quickly be revised downwards according to the number of years that separate us from this next speculative crisis, which is inevitable. Your budget is primarily aimed at catching up with the gap we have in countries even more unequal than we do – hence your 9 billion tax gifts to the richest. The impoverishment of the state, at this rate, will reach 50 billion over five years. But we will all be paying the price, with 80 billion less public spending over the same period. I would like to remind you that between 2012 and 2016 – we must always remember – it was public spending that prevented the country from entering into recession. At a time when the private market is sluggish, you risk extinguishing one of the homes of the French economy, since, as everyone knows, public spending is also revenue in GDP. The worst thing is that your efforts are likely to be in vain, because you will never be able to catch up with countries that do the calculation themselves to reduce capital taxes even further. This shallot race is lost in advance, unless we can no longer tax capital at all – perhaps it is the future you are preparing for us? This project is in vain, above all, because, in a European Union where fiscal and social harmonisation is prohibited, in the name of belief in the invisible hand and the benefits of widespread competition between peoples, this logic inevitably leads states and peoples to levelling down. I note, moreover, that these European mechanisms, whether they are the European Stability Mechanism or those, such as the golden rule, which have been introduced into the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance (TSCG), are at great risk, since it is the projects that are currently being discussed at European Union level, to be translated not into intergovernmental rules, but into Community rules, which will entail even more constraints for the States in the years to come. It will be increasingly difficult to circumvent this framework defined by austerity, supply policy and deregulation. This policy is a disaster. Inequalities, which it assumes and provokes, hit hard what has made the nation since the French Revolution. Let us not make the big mistake of believing that we are immune from this infringement of national consent, which is manifested in our neighbours precisely because of austerity policies that undermine equality. This policy creates poverty – there are 9 million poor people in France today – and impoverishes the middle classes, weakens our collective capacities and national solidarity, in the name of a logic of "Everyone for himself" which, according to liberal ideology, wants general competition to bring human progress for all. The figures published in Le Monde show that it is exactly the opposite that has occurred over the last 30 years. In order to release the energies – to use your vocabulary – to the benefit of financial capital, you added with the ordinances, which are a real step backwards towards the nineteenth century, the deregulation of the social protections that we had given ourselves. We made counter-proposals, a counter-budget. Part of it is based on demand recovery. This is a rather old and classic idea, I agree, but it still allowed the United States, in the late 1920s, to break out of the rut with Keynesian politics and the New Deal, while European countries continued to sink into it, until the war. Our project is that of a Keynes who would have encountered climate disruption and who would have linked the need for wealth sharing to that of an ecological transition of the economy. What we are proposing in our counter-budget is 170 billion additional revenue. This money, we will mainly look for it from those you feed – I mean the income of capital, which has been favored for some 30 years in France, no matter what you say. We get $38 billion through the elimination of tax niches and come back to a much more progressive tax, with fourteen tranches. Finally, we are encouraging the revival of economic activity, amounting to EUR 55 billion, because the IMF has shown that for every euro invested in public expenditure, EUR 1.4 is produced in the private economy. It's easy to understand: if, instead of reducing the housing budget by 1.8 billion euros, as you do, we decide to build a million social housing units in five years, we get the construction companies to work – and that's just one example among many. We also propose a drastic tax evasion hunt, in order to recover half of the 80 billion that fly each year. All these measures will allow us to make 173 billion additional public expenditure, which we assume, and which have nothing revolutionary. This would just allow us to return to the number of officials we had before Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency, which aggravated the destruction of the public service and of what remained of the social state in that country – a movement that was not mitigated, but aggravated under the presidency of François Hollande. Finally, we propose an investment plan of EUR 100 billion, which we demand to pay by debt. Our credible and costed budget would help boost employment: we expect 2 million job creations, 400,000 of them in the public service, which will be better, I believe, than the 100,000 jobs created "thanks" at the CICE – I put quotes because it was a real gabegie for the nation. To build this budget, we obviously exonerate ourselves from the golden rule. You have to stop scaring us with the debt! When compared to the length of the repayment – a little more than seven years, today, in the financial markets – it is not as large as you are lending it and it only accounts for 12% of GDP each year. You are constantly calling on future generations to justify debt reduction. But let me remind you that they benefit from a heritage that we would be well inspired to continue to grow, for example by investing EUR 100 billion in the ecological transition, as we propose. This heritage, which amounts to 13000 billion euros – a figure that is rarely recalled – means that, in the case of a public-private partnership, as with the railway line between Lyon and Turin, for example, the financial institutions ask for only one guarantee, that of the states, including that of Italy, even if it is in less good health than we,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u38	This has yet to be proved!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u39	...and not the guarantee of other financial institutions, whose precariousness they know at the time that is ours. The decline in the state's revenue for capital, which you continue to increase, is worrying and raises the question of the legitimacy of at least part of the debt, as the states decided in 2010 to bail out the banks – up to 474 billion under Nicolas Sarkozy – without worrying about the status these banks would now have or what they would do with their profits. It is therefore important that the central banks, in particular the European Central Bank, but also the Bank of France, which continues to issue notes in France – which should encourage us to put an end to the cuts in staff at this institution, as the trade unions ask – buy back sovereign debts rather than lend money to banks that will use it to speculate on the same sovereign debt in a shameful way, as has happened for Greece. I hope that the European campaign in 2019 will be an opportunity to confront two visions. On the one hand, there is a greater integration of the Europe of austerity, of the Europe of money, of the Europe of supply policy, which you propose to us. On the other hand, that of a France proposing a plan A for the whole of Europe for the European Union or a plan B with all the countries that would like to build with it a Europe of social and fiscal harmonisation, in favour of employment and ecological transition. As you can see, our logic is the opposite of yours. Dear colleagues of the La République en marche group, you, who are thinking of bringing modernity here, are actually drawing on the liberal counter-revolution of the 1980s, to adapt our country to it definitively. However, we do not intend to submit to it, because we believe that our Republic is not soluble, precisely because of these egalitarian principles born out of the French Revolution. That is why we are calling for the prior rejection of this public finance programming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u40	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Émilie Cariou, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u41	"If we want to survive, we have to play the future, i.e. entrepreneurship. This quote from sociologist Michel Crozier seems to me to summarize the spirit that resolutely permeates our majority for this first major budgetary stage of the quinquennium. In order to "play the future", we resolutely reposition the work and the creation of values in the centre of the Republic, making them the keys to unlocking our country. Freeing up while protecting is looking at the future of all our territories, and that is why this first law of public finance programming organises differentiated solidarity to contribute to our serious budget. Territorial cohesion, reinvigoration through the inclusion of the enterprise in social life, so many appointments are made during these first budgetary measures. The Public Finance Programming Act is our collective roadmap, informing all of our choices for the coming years. It will be one of the foundations of our renewed action to assess public action. It must help restore our credibility on the European stage and vis-à-vis our economic actors. I would like to stress the seriousness and visibility that this programming law proposes for our European partners. Who can hear the voice of France in Europe to lead the fight against tax havens if we are not clear with the model we want and plan? I personally expect a great deal from our action at EU and OECD level and, more generally, from the anti-fraud plan announced by the Minister this week, to finally reduce the unfair tax competition experienced by French households and too many of our businesses, which also undermines our solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, I welcome the quality of the adversarial debate that has arisen in this chamber and the constructive contributions that have amended the text, far beyond dogmatism, which we want to avoid. Today, we must move forward on this path, not backwards. That is why this motion of rejection seems to me to be a contradiction to all the collective commitments we have made to the French. Together with my colleagues in La République en Marche, we will play the future and therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u42	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u43	I would like to point out that we did not have an obligation to vote on a law on public finance programming. Whether it is a choice, not a constraint, it is the symbol of our desire for co-construction and collaboration, but above all of visibility for the future. This visibility can be summed up as follows: reduction of the deficit and reduction of levies and public expenditure. The MODEM Group would therefore like to welcome this programming law, which opens up much broader avenues for reflection on local tax issues, on the principle of universality or on the definition of fairer taxation. What matters is that we are launching the debate on tax simplification. We welcome this trajectory and it is for this reason that we will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u44	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u45	It's always interesting to listen to you, Mr. Coquerel. In fact, you've talked about everything, except the programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u46	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u47	You gave us a little synthesis of the synthesis that was published yesterday in Le Monde, but you don't say everything. You do not say that France is a very special case in Europe and in the global movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u48	That's exactly what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u49	You had to listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u50	Let me go to the end! You do not say that the current situation is much more unequal than the situation that existed at the beginning of the 20th century, because income inequalities, and above all wealth inequalities, have greatly reduced during the 20th century, and only since the 1980s or 1990s have they started to increase again. But you do not ask the substantive question: what is justice? For my part, I am not in favour of total equality, of what is called egalitarianism. All those who wanted to build these pseudo-egalitarian or communist regimes have led to a huge disaster and impoverishment of the peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u51	Liberation and the Thirty Glorious is not communism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u52	The real problem is, therefore, to determine a balanced level of inequality, which must be based on differences in contribution to the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u53	You yourself, how do you position yourself from this point of view?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u54	Only Mr. de Courson has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u55	He's asking questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u56	There is no question of establishing an egalitarian system. That's the debate. If you read the documents published by Eurostat, Mr Coquerel, you would see that France – that's it! – has the gold medal of compulsory levies in Europe. But I am not one of those who think that equality requires the continuous increase of compulsory levies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u57	It does not go through the increase of capital, at least!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u58	... because it leads to exactly the opposite result: the impoverishment of peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u59	Everything proves the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u60	You might also wonder about the links between the level of inequality and the rate of growth: they are extremely varied from one country to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u61	You don't explain why inequality dates back to the '80s!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u62	That is why I will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u63	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion for referral to committee, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft finance law for 2018. Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u64	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to put to you a motion to refer this bill back to committee, because it is appropriate to re-examine it in the Committee on Finance. I would like to take advantage of the time allocated to me to first review the conditions for the examination of this text in a new reading, by making, if I may, a small chronological reminder. Last Tuesday, in the middle of the afternoon, the Senate passed the 2018 Finance Bill at first reading, voting on certain provisions in the same terms as the National Assembly, deleting articles, adding many more. It is his most strict right: whatever the majority, whatever the chamber concerned, the right of amendment is a fundamental and sacred right that we all respect. At the same time, the National Assembly passed the second amending finance bill, which had mobilized us all the previous week. The day before yesterday, Wednesday, at 16:15, the Joint Joint Committee, composed of Members of Parliament and Senators, met to decide on the legislative action to be taken on this finance bill. At seventeen o'clock, the meeting ended with a failure. The text therefore had to be reviewed in a new reading, which we are doing today. So, seventeen hours this Wednesday is the time from which we were able to amend the Senate version of the finance bill. I hope that national representation will take the time to reflect on these deadlines. This is necessary from a democratic point of view, especially since it can contribute to our reflection on the reforms envisaged in order to strengthen the role of Parliament, the first proposals in this direction having been presented this week. Thus, on this finance bill, which has grown significantly after the Senate's consideration, since it now has more than a hundred articles, we have had three hours to table amendments for consideration in open session, which is taking place today, and five hours to table our amendments for consideration in committee, which took place yesterday morning. Apart from the concomitance of the deadlines for tabling, which in practice prevented us from tabling amendments at the sitting after their consideration in committee, as is customary, such constraints, such dysfunctions in the organisation of parliamentary work do not allow us to tackle the last straight line of this budgetary marathon under the best conditions. At this moment, I invite you to imagine what will become of this debate, this marathon on the nation's budget, if our Assembly decides, tomorrow, to reduce the number of parliamentarians, as envisaged. I do not know what democracy or our assembly will gain with fewer Members,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u65	Not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u66	...but I know what we will lose in the vicinity with the population, with the local elected representatives, with the associations. When I think of our work in the House, when I read the articles referring to the overwork of colleagues – I can understand that – will Members have more strength, energy and time tomorrow to represent constituencies of 250,000 inhabitants and covering 300 communes and, at the same time, to be the elected representatives of the nation who control, investigate and legislate? Will the review of the nation's budget, the finance bill, make it more effective to study in depth, sincerely and effectively all its articles and requests? Will they have the means to pass on all the amendments that they will receive, as we have been receiving in recent days for the examination of this budget in a new reading? I am thinking, for example, of amendment No. 289 adopted by senators, which veterans' associations ask us to keep – you must have received them like me. I am thinking of the amendment on French education abroad, or of this amendment to section 10 of the public finance programming bill, on community endowments, which you mentioned, Minister, and which was distributed in Cahors at the National Conference of Territories. I could quote you about 20 of this type, which you've received like me in your e-mail boxes in the last few days. We spend so much time and energy on each of these amendments! This has been the case with the amendment on the renovation of housing in the mining basin, which I am particularly interested in, as you know, and which we have managed to win by working with each other. I can tell you that when this amendment was adopted unanimously in committee, we were overwhelmed by emotion. I also welcome the availability of the services of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general and Members of the various groups that I have met to defend this amendment. Yes, we spend a lot of energy on sometimes winning a modest amendment, long awaited by people – this was the case, which was expected, in my home, by the families of the mining basin of Nord and Pas-de-Calais. So yes, it takes time and energy to carry out each of these battles, to respond to each of these demands that come from everywhere and that all deserve to be answered by taking the time of reflection. That is why I do not believe that democracy and our Republic will benefit if we reduce the number of Members or the time for our discussions. Yes, in the context of this first budget that we are studying – and for many of us this is the first time – these reforms are likely to seriously weaken our missions and our democracy. Therefore, you will understand that we, for our part, are campaigning for a VIth Republic which is concerned with the rights of representatives elected by the people and gives more power to Parliament. Yesterday, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, you spoke of "exceptional circumstances" in connection with this budgetary debate. However, these tend, subtly, to become the norm, preventing the parliamentarians we are, our collaborators and the staff of our assembly, especially the administrators, from doing their work properly. I would add that these very short working times seriously undermine the rights of minority groups, such as the one to which I belong, who have little human and financial resources. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, with such deadlines, it is no wonder that technical failures have multiplied. For example, we were given a computer bug on the digital platform dedicated to amendments, which prevented the tabling of amendments amending appropriations for consideration in the Committee on Finance. And yesterday morning, the meeting of the Finance Committee was marked by a technical incident which required a suspension of the sitting at least unheard of. Beyond form, I come back to the substance, to the content of this budget which we are considering in a new reading and to the reasons why we are making this request for referral back to committee. I recall the strong inequalities in our country – Mr de Courson and Mr Coquerel have just mentioned them, thus addressing the substantive debate. In 2016, the richest 10% of French people owned 56% of the wealth, when the poorest 50% shared 5% of the same wealth. More than a third of French people have experienced poverty. The perceived poverty line is at an ever higher level – 1015 euros per month now – thus dangerously approaching the level of the minimum wage – 1140 euros currently. This poverty, which is taking root in our country, obviously has a real impact on the lives of our fellow citizens: 20% of them say they have given up dental care because of their cost, 12% buy glasses and 16% consult with a specialist doctor. The concept of equality is somewhat undermined in our Republic: when we look towards the top of the pyramid, towards the "first of the ropes", we think that there is indeed some money in this low world. In this regard, I would like to quote this famous magazine, which establishes, every year at the same time, the ranking of the 500 largest fortunes in our country: "The observation is obvious: to see the evolution of the ranking of the 500 professional fortunes since [the] first edition [of the magazine] in 1996, the heritage of the ultra-rich in France has grown considerably over the last two decades. The numbers attesting to their prosperity are impressive. The number of billionaires exploded from 11 to 92, and in total the value of the 500 fortunes increased from 80 to 570 billion, multiplied by seven. » We could also mention, for example, the case of the 3250 richest households in France, which have transferred 140 billion euros to tax havens around the world. This is an opportunity to recall the scandal of tax evasion. As my communist colleague Eric Bocquet said last week in the Senate, this scandal is regularly revealed dramatically in the media, and then, when the media tumult calms down after a few days, silence takes place, but the scandal continues. Ladies and gentlemen, let us constantly remember that the Republic loses between EUR 60 billion and EUR 80 billion each year because of tax evasion, the equivalent of France's deficit. This fight must bring us together beyond our own sensitivities and must be conducted without weakness, without compromise. She is the mother of battles, in the name of the Republic and democracy. Mr Minister, you will understand that, for all these reasons, both in form and in substance, we are asking for this budget to be referred back to committee: we do not think that it is a response to the overwhelming observation that is required of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u68	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Perrine Goulet, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u69	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are here for the new reading of the finance bill for 2018. Our fellow citizens have elected us to embody a change. This budget is the first volume of the reforms we promote in order to restore confidence to the French. It is a tool for the transformation of our country. Through this budget, we honour our commitments, those of the President of the Republic and those we have made towards the European Union. It is a sincere, solid and solid budget that will involve many efforts. But they will pay, because this budget will enable us to get out of the dangerous zone of excessive deficits, as confirmed by the European Commission by Mr Moscovici last Wednesday. This budget will enable us to support activity and investment. It is aimed at all: employees, civil servants, managers of TPEs or SMEs. It is aimed at families and students, as evidenced by the sharp increase in education and higher education budgets. It is also aimed at the most vulnerable of our citizens, the elderly and the disabled, through the upgrading of the minimum old age, the allowance for adults with disabilities and the activity premium, as well as the reduction of the housing tax for 80% of French citizens. As such, the funding of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission will increase by €3.5 billion, which is considerable. It is also a budget that protects: in order to strengthen our armies, defence appropriations will rise by an exceptional EUR 8.6 billion over the duration of the quinquennium; They will increase by 1.8 billion in 2018, in line with the commitment made by the President of the Republic to increase our defence effort to 2% of national wealth by 2025. We have made choices and assume them fully, in order to put France back on the path of success and modernity, in order to respond to the new challenges facing us. This text has already been studied three times, especially yesterday in committee. Moreover, Mr Roussel, as you know, we have listened to the opposition proposals, since we have adopted one of your amendments on minors' housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Therefore, we do not believe that referral to committee is necessary, and we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u72	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u73	We will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee, because the objective of the finance bill is to strengthen the balance between economic recovery and social justice. We have worked hard on this budget, which is sincere and responsible. It meets the requirement of social justice to which we are attached. To this end, the MODEM Group, the second pillar of the majority, has made particular efforts to ensure that savings are oriented towards the real economy, and has defended a more just and responsible society by proposing amendments on the social and solidarity economy, as well as on associative life; I am thinking in particular of the widening of the reduction in income tax on donations, and the exemption applicable to the patronage of very small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises – TPE-SMEs. We also supported sustainable development by refocusing the energy transition tax credit – ISCED. Finally, we wanted to return to the fundamentals of family policy, which is part of my group's DNA. We are committed to its universality, and we will continue to work to return, by the end of the quinquennium, to the 2012 figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u74	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u75	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u76	In the joint general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u77	On the occasion of this new reading, I would like to address three points. First, Minister, you were silent when you were asked about the European Commission's opinion on your draft budget for 2018. The latter referred to a "risk of non-compliance" with the commitments you made on our behalf before the European Union. To this question, your colleague Bruno Le Maire responded by staging a small play, during questions to the Government. He is not asked to be an actor; He was asked to be Minister of Economy and Finance. The European Commission is very clear: this risk of non-compliance had never been mentioned in the previous two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u78	You didn't respect the path!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u79	In order to give reasons for its opinion, the Commission relies on the risk of deterioration of the structural balance. His services have recalculated on the basis of your assumptions, which has given rise to very long discussions – transcribed over seven pages! – between Bruno Le Maire and the Commission, who negotiated to round off. But that's not the point. Minister, that was said earlier, you have made a lot of tax gifts that are not funded. You increase inequalities, without providing for the financing of your actions. In all logic, the European Commission is putting it under your nose! And you say you didn't see anything and you don't agree. Above all, you don't say anything. This attitude is not very responsible. If you do not plan any corrective action, you will be caught up. Of course, France is sovereign: it decides its own budget and the vote. But you say that you want to respect European commitments, and we agree on that. You also say that these commitments were not fulfilled before. Yes, they were! Mr Minister, on this point, I would like you to provide us with the clarification that your colleague Bruno Le Maire has refused to give us. Secondly, the right-wing majority in the Senate did not, as last year, vote on the budgets for justice, defence, security and agriculture. For 2018, there are no plans for these four missions. This is not responsible, and our Assembly will be committed to restoring the appropriations for these budgets. Thirdly, I would like to go back to a point of methodology with respect to clause 42 bis of the finance bill, as we will discuss the substance of the matter when we consider the 100 amendments tabled by our group. This article is the result of an amendment that I received last year when I was the general rapporteur of the budget. It emanates from the lobbies that manifest themselves in the National Assembly and the Senate. In this case, these persons are heard each year several times by the Finance Committee. They have never told us of their desire to be able to have guarantees from the Bank of France in order to benefit more significantly from the financing of the ECB. The mechanism is probably economically relevant, but if so, why is it never discussed in the Committee on Finance? Why is it being considered at the last moment, after the Senate has adopted an amendment by the rapporteur-general? Why are parliamentarians considered to be godillots, who would not be able to discuss them in an informed manner either in the Committee on Finance or in the House? I have tabled an amendment to delete this article. The problem is not so much in substance as in form. I'm tired of Members being taken for godillots.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u80	They're 98%!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u81	They can perfectly understand the meaning of the investment in guarantees of debts arising from the tax credit research or from the CICE, but always making things go into catini, it is exasperating. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] These are the reasons why we will not vote on the 2018 Finance Bill again. But we will be committed to defending the ninety-four amendments that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u82	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u83	You said strong things, Mrs. Rabault. Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Commission, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the end of a lengthy procedure for examining the finance bill and the public finance programming bill, i.e. the state budget for 2018. It took us forty-five days of public debate to reach these texts in their final version, which, admittedly, is strangely similar to what they were at the point of departure. For this is now the law in this House, which is the application of the most authoritarian version of the Fifth Republic: the President of the Republic decides, the Government applies and the parliamentary majority approves. As for us, opposition, if we try to do what we can, we are heard on few things. Nothing is granted, no change is allowed and almost no amendment of the opposition is accepted unless it has been approved in advance. Of the 725 amendments we have tabled, you have retained only two or three which, without insulting this great victory, are merely cosmetic amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I say it from the top of this rostrum to make a final fate to those who repeat, to wilt us, that we would not have a program. We have one, which we are defending in this House by means of hundreds of amendments, and you are refusing them all! You will not make the French believe that you are the only ones to have a policy: we have proposals, we have a counter-budget. I don't care, moreover, to hear a former President of the Republic take over the microphone two days ago to say that we would not have a programme. Let this man at least have the delicacy to read the programme of La France insoumée, which was unveiled during the presidential election: it has the title L'Avenir en commun and it is regularly defended in this rostrum by my comrades and myself. I repeat: of our 725 amendments, you have virtually not retained any, although they would undoubtedly have enriched this important text. The opposition can always try to debate: you do not hear it, and its amendments are rejected. You have given 9 billion euros of gifts to the country's greatest fortunes. As has already been pointed out, it is the essence of the problem, since it is almost 10 million euros that, every hour – I say well every hour! – from pockets of the entire population to those of the richest: 10 million an hour, it's amazing. Obviously, the seizure of wealth by those who already possess almost everything does not worry you: sometimes it even seems to satisfy you. You even think it's useful, if I have to recognize you a form of virtue and concede that you are honestly convinced by this logic. Now everything shows that it goes into the wall. Yesterday, a major evening newspaper published a survey showing, at global, European and national levels, the worsening of inequalities. That should have overshadowed all your thoughts. This should have helped to paint the background on which you should have drawn all the lines of strength of the budget. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. You cannot ignore that there are always more poor people in the country, more and more ill-treated, more and more ill-paid and ill-treated. Inequalities are widening, poverty is increasing, unemployment is increasing, insecurity is increasing and life expectancy in good health is stagnating at its worst. Today, 4 million French people are poorly housed. The number of people without a fixed home has increased by 50 per cent in 10 years. In 2015, almost 20,000 people were listed as living in one of France's 582 slums, 12% of which are located in Seine-Saint-Denis, a department for which I have the honour of being a Member of Parliament. In the fifth world economic power, there are now 9 million poor, or almost 15 per cent of the population. As for the French who are above the poverty line, there are also many who have difficulty living: 44 per cent of the modest households, i.e. living on less than 1200 euros a month, have difficulty obtaining a healthy diet that allows them to make three meals a day, and 39 per cent of the same households admit to having difficulty paying for medical acts, which represents an increase of three points in just one year. But none of this, in your opinion, seems to be an emergency and requires a break: what matters is to remain in the nails of the European diktat by not exceeding 3% of the public deficit, even so often, those who defend these demands have not been elected by anyone, even though they condemn, at European level as well as at national level, nearly 500 million people to suffer austerity policies. To comply with this golden rule, we must move forward by following the measures you have proposed: to lower the APLs for the most fragile, to increase the CSG, to lower wages or to refuse to increase them, to weaken the social security system, to attack the labour code, to refrain from breaking with the productivist system, to limit, if necessary, public freedoms, to harm the public hospital, not to strengthen the public school and higher education. That is the policy that the new majority is applying when, for a long time, our country has been envied by many of our European friends as well as throughout the world. As we were envied of the labour code, social security, national solidarity, the democratic system, the finance bill for 2018 condenses all attacks. Yet you could have taken another path, because it is wrong to pretend that there is no alternative possible. The urgency would have been to hunt down social fraud and refuse to reduce APLs, stigmatize the public service, violate the rights of private employees or allow the destruction of the planet. The urgent need would have been to combat fraud and tax evasion, which alone cost the State EUR 100 billion each year. I repeat: EUR 100 billion, which is more than the public deficit! Is it urgent to try to extinguish a small home that is being born as a firecracker develops on the other side of the house? Each year, 100 billion euros are not available from the government's revenue. That is what must be done, rather than limiting public spending that is so necessary for the population! You could have conducted another policy, the one proposed by our counter-budget, which my friend Éric Coquerel presented earlier and on which we must return, because it proves concretely to those who listen to us that other avenues are possible, other choices are feasible. It really required courage. You could have started by smoothing the tax in fourteen tranches, so that everyone can contribute according to their means and allow those who are lucky and honoured to be the richest to contribute more. You could have increased VAT on luxury products, to reduce it on essential purchases. You could have increased the CAC 40 corporate tax to reduce the tax on SMEs and FTEs. You could have set a maximum inheritance, to avoid the perpetuation of inequalities. You could have removed the tax niches that cost the country so much, when they only pay to the richest. You could have abrogated the CICE, the liability pact, the research tax credit and all those schemes that offer money to big companies without asking them for anything in return. You could have increased the RSA, the minimum old age, the disabled adult allowance and all the social minimums, to put them, at least, above the poverty line. You could have increased SMIC. Because we can talk about SMIC, even when our country is going through tragic events, can't we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u84	Who forbids it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u85	I apologize, minister, I was referring to a tweet on my part. Yes, we need to be able to talk about SMIC in all circumstances and demand its fair increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u86	He was talking to himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u87	I was talking to myself, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u88	[[Smile]] As long as you agree with yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u89	It's not bad already!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u90	And even every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u91	Perhaps you have already had disagreements with yourself: I have noticed it and you are even known for it, by the way. Let's stay there, dear friend. You could have invested an additional $15 billion in school, to guarantee public and compulsory education up to the age of 18. You could have recruited 600,000 teachers, stopped hospital closures, renovated universities, built social housing. Above all, you could have limited wage differentials from 1 to 20 in the company, dear rapporteur-general, and strengthened the right of citizens to control their elected representatives. You could have done so much. None of this has been done and inequalities are widening, while the country's gross domestic product has never been so high, which means that there is more money. The means are there, but it lacks the will to reach this world in which no one would triumph over the failure of the other, no one would be enriched by the poverty of the other, no one would rejoice at the misfortune of the other. Ladies and gentlemen, you have understood this: the project you are presenting to us does not meet the current challenges, it does not give anything meaningful to those who have nothing and offers everything to those who have everything. It's located, alas! In the policy of widening inequalities which was presented to us earlier and which benefits, it has already been pointed out, to the 1 % of the richest, who have seen their personal fortune increase by 98 % since 1983.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u93	This 1% of the richest family represents 500,000 families. Will you be the government of these 500,000 families, obeying the President not only of the richest, but of the 500,000 most fortunate who, thanks to you, recognize it, will see their fortunes increase even further?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u94	They're not the 300 families anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u95	Yes, 500,000: that's already better than 300, but that remains 500,000 in a country with 66 million inhabitants. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, after all the hours of debate in which we have been involved, I have not insulted you to go into all the details, but our disagreement with you remains profound. That is why we will vote against these two texts and defend many of the amendments vigorously during the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u96	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u97	[[Smile]] Madam President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, friends, comrades every day, or almost every day, a new study brings to our eyes a frightening observation of a world launched at full speed towards chaos. The daily newspaper Le Monde gave a new example of this by publishing yesterday the first report of researchers and economists gathered in the project "Heritage and Income Database". What are they telling us? That since the 1980s, the richest 1% have benefited twice as much from income growth as the poorest 50%. For the middle classes, these incomes have stagnated at best, at worst diminished! Thus, the 1 per cent of the world's highest incomes captured 27 per cent of growth. But that's never enough! The ISF just has its head on the log that needs to be done in order to escape the new tax you are creating: the IFI. This is what we discover in advertisements displayed in one of the newspapers. I have brought you one, minister, if you want to challenge: "Reduce your IFI 2018".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u98	Don't bother, I already have a company!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u99	I know you're already the leader of an offshore company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u100	Thanks to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u101	[[Smile]] Yes, I've appointed you director. You can now reduce your IFI: ads already appear to show how it is possible to divert the tax you created.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u102	I don't pay the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u103	[[Smile]] They do business together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u104	How far are we going to go with such behaviors? Where will this obsession with tax avoidance lead us?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u105	In the wall!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u106	Up to a tax-free company? The question is brutal, I agree, but I'm not the only one asking it. According to a report published by Eurodad last week, the European Union is now the undisputed leader at least the so-called tax. If this trend continues, the average corporate tax rate, this time at the global level, could reach 0% by 2052, again according to the Eurodad report. The corporate tax curve is declining steadily. In the long run, logically, it will reach zero: that's what they want. Tuesday, in response to a question about tax evasion posed by André Chassaigne, the Prime Minister referred to the consent to the tax of citizens, insisting that the French "will consent to tax if they feel that no one is exempt from it". Well, here's the problem! It is also necessary for contributions to be allocated according to the income of each individual. How does public opinion perceive the choices you make in this draft budget? Things are clear: this draft budget, based on fiscal and social injustice, is a nice gift package placed at the foot of the fir tree of our country's richest people. The transformation of the ISF into an IFI and the introduction of a single flat-rate levy will save on average 1.5 million euros to each of the 100 richest taxpayers in our country. So I say, "Merry Christmas to the first of the ropes of our country! » [[Smile]] Now, things are clear as to the nature of your policy. We knew the Fifty shades of Grey, we now know the fifty shades of the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u107	You had to dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u108	Is it so erotic?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u109	Thus, in the Senate, the Republicans Group and the Centralist Union Group voted in accordance with a series of provisions that attest to the marriage and alliances between you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u110	Alliances against nature!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u111	[[Smile. – Exclaims on FI banks]] No, my dear colleague, Fifty shades of Grey.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u112	I don't know how to end the day!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u113	The Senate majority voted to abolish the fourth instalment of the wage tax, in accordance with the Government's wish – we're talking about the wage bracket above €152,000 a year, which you're removing to attract London City traders. Similarly, the Senate voted for the gradual reduction of corporate tax, which you want to reduce to 25%, without consideration, and which will cost almost 4 billion euros per year in 2022. Finally, with regard to the dislocation of the tax on financial transactions, the Republicans and the Republic on the move have agreed not to extend this tax to the most speculative transactions, resulting in the State losing around €2 billion in potential revenue. But osmosis, symbiosis, what do I say, fusion doesn't stop there. On the implementation of the single lump sum levy, what separates Republicans from the running Republic is not thicker than a blank cheque made to the richest taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u114	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u115	Only a small history of nuance has prevented the Senate from adopting this undervalued provision, whose economist Gabriel Zucman estimated the cost at 10 billion euros a year, as our colleagues in the La France group have said. Let us be fair: there are still real nuances between your two majorities. Here are two, on symbolically strong subjects. I'm thinking first of all of the day when public servants are short – between us, public servants are being fed up without worrying about the ill-being that can exist in the public service. The running Republic wants to introduce a day of failure, while the Republicans of the Senate proposed three. The same applies to the solidarity tax on wealth. On the one hand, the La République en marche group proposes to abolish it and to create a similar tax on the property wealth alone, thus preserving all the financial assets. On the other hand, the group The Republicans proposes the pure and simple removal of the ISF, bar-point. That's what happens when you play "More right than me, you die! Except that this game between tax sorcerer apprentices costs between 3.2 and 5 billion euros per year to the public finances, without targeting or matching. These choices will not meet the unequal challenges posed by globalization; On the contrary, they risk fuelling the feeling of downgrading and abandoning the most difficult populations, who still need help – you know that very well. As such, the example of the Nord-Pas-de-Calais mining basin is enlightening. At the end of the war, the mining basin was asked to re-establish the country. "Minor, the fate of France is in your hands! We can read on a poster in 1945. Seventy-two years later, relocations, sectoral crises and the decline in public services provided a sad picture. All indicators are in the red, with an unemployment rate of 9 points above the national average, a poverty rate of 8 points higher than that of the country, a life expectancy of six years lower than that of a Francilian and a negative migration balance. This is the sad situation of a living pool of 1.1 million people. It is towards these territories that the state must turn – and there is not only Nord-Pas-de-Calais! For the mining basin of Nord-Pas-de-Calais, in any case, the State must comply with the commitments made on 7 March in Oignies and signed by elected representatives of all sides. That is the meaning of the amendments we have tabled on the budget texts. First of all, we ask that the targeting of profits, in the urban basin to be boosted, be conditional on the hiring of local employees. An amendment to this effect was adopted at first reading of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill, and we welcome it. We will also support two amendments as part of this new reading of the 2018 Finance Bill. The first is to create an investment fund to enable the development of new centralities in the mining basin. The second proposes to finance the renovation of the 23,000 unworthy dwellings occupied by minors and their beneficiaries. I am pleased that this amendment was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Finance. I would also like to welcome the availability of the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, and of the minister, with whom I had the opportunity to work and who worked so that this amendment could be completed and adopted yesterday in committee. He still has to pass the stage of the public session.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u116	Fortunately, we did not adopt your motion to refer you back to committee earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u117	That is, of course, why I am focusing on this amendment. I hope that it will be adopted today by this House: it would be an important sign for the mining basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u118	[[Smile]] You don't put much emphasis on the North!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u119	I'm still not gonna talk ch'ti!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u120	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u121	[[Smile]] I'd lose all credibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u122	Come on, dog!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u123	Meeting the needs of citizens: this is the objective that a fair and equitable budget should pursue for France. It goes, you understand, through the cancellation of gifts to the most affluent and thus through a better distribution of wealth. This also requires an effective fight against tax fraud – this goal should even be made a national issue. I'd like to introduce our counter-budget, but I don't have time. However, for several weeks, the Communist deputies have plowed all the departments of France to present this counter-budget and to discuss with the French what they hear and what measures you are preparing. Indeed, our fellow citizens are raising a lot of concerns about their purchasing power: despite all your commitments and all the announcements you have made, they have retained the declines in credit in our public services, in our health facilities and in our housing organizations, the increases in bills and rents, the stagnation of pensions and wages... All these concerns are raised today. We will take stock in a year: then we will see whether poverty and unemployment have actually declined.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u124	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u125	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I know that we are working on very technical texts, but that does not prevent me, on Friday morning, from beginning my speech with a quote from a poetic hair of Nicolas Boileau, who lends himself very well to our exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u126	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u127	"Slow slowly, and without losing courage, Twenty times on the job hand over your work,... »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u128	That's what we're not doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u129	"... Polize him constantly, and re-polute him, Add sometimes, and often erase. » [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] That is what we are doing here today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u130	You have letters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u131	[[Smile]] We should appoint Boileau as Minister of State for Culture and Budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u132	We do not consider a new reading, but two budget texts which, considered as a whole, reflect all the commitments made by the President of the Republic and supported by the majority: the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of households, the transformation of the ISF into an IFI, the introduction of the single flat-rate levy, the stabilization of the overall operating allocation. So this is a budget for promises and a clear framework for the next five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u133	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u134	I repeat: we are not looking again at one, but two budget texts which, in different terms, will enable France to get back on the right track, in particular so that our economy creates jobs and encourages investment. We will give the French more opportunities to use their savings to support our businesses. As you know, Members of the majority will be following the practical application of this provision from 22 January at a meeting with all financial intermediaries and actors. These texts will also allow us to return to sound management of our public finances, so that we can live up to our commitments. These are not linked to external diktats: they have been voted on many times in our Chamber, but very little held for thirty years... We are also seeking to free ourselves from the room for manoeuvre to carry the public policies that we care about. We are not just reviewing these texts. To quote Nicolas Boileau, we enriched them and polished them, at all stages of the shuttle, with the majority, the Government and sometimes the opposition. At first reading, in the National Assembly, we worked, in a spirit of fairness, to lower the tax rate on professional capital gains. We also chose to maintain the taxation of goods that were yesterday on the ISF's base but are now excluded from the IFI's base, when we considered that they were not productive for the real economy. In addition, we have increased the rate of tax reduction for subscriptions in cash to the capital of small and medium-sized enterprises, known as "IR-SME", extended the tax credit for organic farming and extended the financial penalties imposed in case of tax evasion with a supplementary penalty of deprivation of civil, civil and family rights. We are not convinced by some of the provisions adopted by our honourable senators, which have not always taken into account the principle of sound management of public finances, nor by the commitments of the President of the Republic, often endorsed by our fellow citizens, such as the reduction of the housing tax, nor by the need for ambitious public policies in the areas of labour and employment, agriculture, security, justice and immigration, since they simply rejected these budgets. However, our honourable senators have helped to improve these bills, and our majority believes that some of their amendments must be retained. This includes an increase in the VAT rate applicable to real estate operations in the housing sector, a reduction in the conditions for benefiting from the tax incentive scheme for institutional investment in intermediate housing, and the continuation until 2019 of the ZRR scheme – rural revitalization zones – for the municipalities that have emerged from it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] At each stage, Nicolas Boileau was right: the PLF and the PLPFP came out enriched, reinforced and polished. Once again, let us put back our work on the trade and vote on these two bills for new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u135	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u136	Madam Chair, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Finance Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore meeting for the new readings of the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022 and the finance bill for 2018. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the Senate, which has dealt fully with all the issues raised in these texts, including four very important issues. It had removed the proposed new housing tax, as well as the property tax that the Government wished to transform into a property tax. It also amended the rules for controlling community spending, which were unacceptable. Finally, he referred to the negative housing measures contained in the PLF. By playing its role as a chamber representing local and regional authorities, the Senate realized that the latter would suffer as a result of the removal of the housing tax. Above all, he understood that the 30 per cent reduction in this tax, which the Government wants to implement as early as 2018, would deprive the finances of the communities of a dynamic resource. Finally, this measure would correspond to the extremely worrying supervision of local and regional authorities, while many decisions taken by the Government reflect a genuine Jacobine and centralizing will. The expenditure trends proposed in the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 bear witness to this. Again, with regard to the method, it is unacceptable to adopt unilateral binding provisions that condition the lives of communities without consultation or dialogue with them. Of course, after the National Conference of Territories held yesterday in Cahors, some adjustments will be proposed. We therefore look forward to knowing precisely how the Government intends to amend section 10 of the PLP to limit the increase in actual community operating expenditures. We will also examine whether the Government appears to wish to revisit the strengthened gold rule, which, by monitoring communities with a debt-to-gross savings ratio of over 11 or 13 years, does not take into account the specific situations that may exist, particularly when communities hold certain assets. In terms of methodology, there are other things to be said: the Government has just brought to our attention, a few moments ago, an amendment No. 31 rewriting article 24 six pages in length. Local and regional authorities are already subject to a lot of harshness, particularly economic ones. It is therefore important to address all these issues with serenity and time. While the Government has repeatedly told us that the housing tax was unfair, it seems incomprehensible to increase this injustice by concentrating this tax on a minority representing 20 per cent of the French. The President of the Republic himself has acknowledged this injustice of having some bear the burden of this tax: he has therefore outlined the promise of totally abolishing the housing tax. By abolishing the IFI, the Senate also prevented only real estate investments from being subject to a property tax, which would have been a real tax inequity, tax aberration and social injustice when we know that the big fortunes are very much transferable – they would have been exempt tomorrow – while the small fortunes or even the upper middle classes should have paid off the IFI. When a new tax does not respect the taxpayer's ability to contribute, it is a bad tax, Minister. Finally, the Government claimed, at the first reading of the finance bill in the Assembly, that the transformation of the ISF into an IFI would not make any losers. The Senate has shown that this is not true: because of the lesser deduction of expenses, some taxpayers will be more affected by the IFI than they are by the ISF. I hope you will explain yourself on this point, minister. The Senate has also gone back to the provisions introduced by government amendments aimed – by way of compensation – at increasing taxation on external signs of wealth. It was only a matter of communication, a political display, in disregard of any notion – even the most elementary – of the effectiveness of the tax. Given the derisory performance of these taxes, it is very difficult to justify them by morality alone! I would also like to refer to the conditions under which parliamentarians have had to work, which have been forced and urgent. The legislative procedure has been affected by the short deadline for tabling amendments, as well as by a hasty discussion. We discussed the amendments tabled at the last minute, but they could not be considered by the committee. We are well aware of the imperatives of the budget review procedure, and of the need for a quick shuttle between the Assembly and the Senate, but this eagerness – and even this race against the clock – does not serve parliamentary work and does not improve the quality of our debates. In fact, the Government appears to be in a hurry to have its first budget adopted by refusing any improvement, all compromised with the opposition. He does not seek consensus and prefers to go into force by simply removing the work done by senators. Yesterday, in the Committee on Finance, however, I myself suggested to the rapporteur-general that he should be right and accept certain proposals from senators, by means of sub-amendments. But the majority does not hide its disinterest in what is not in its sense: that is to say the lack of consideration it has for the other parliamentarians! Already, during the review of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill, more than 30 government amendments had been tabled without the Finance Committee being able to review them. And yesterday, in the Finance Committee, we witnessed a loosening of the whole of the Senate's progress, which clearly had the great harm of not sharing the inflexible line imposed by the executive. How can you claim to be constructive, modern, respectful of institutions, while you operate such a forceful passage? You have methodically and cynically demolished, amendment after amendment, everything that the Senate has proposed! How can you claim to be respectful of national representation, when you have reduced the assembly to a recording chamber and short-circuited the Senate? No unconditional right is granted to you: be careful not to come to deny bicameralism. You were not lying, minister, when you were talking about a budget that had broken completely with what had been done for thirty years. Unfortunately, I do not believe that this statement is positive! We continue to call on you to undertake structural reforms. I remind you for the umpteenth time: all economic indicators are in favour of structural renewal, but nothing does, you don't want to hear anything. You have not hesitated to take on board some of our proposals – such as the one formulated by Gilles Carrez to revise the rate of interest on moratoria. What are you waiting for to take up our other suggestions, including those of the Senate? [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] We have repeated this throughout the whole budget debate: your budget is neither brave nor fair. But nothing does: you do not take account of any of our remarks. He's not deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear! For example, we have repeatedly proposed to keep FISAC's appropriations – the Intervention Fund for Services, Crafts and Trade – for 2018 at the same level as for 2017, in vain. Yet this fund is really useful to rural areas, where the needs are enormous. Yesterday, the Government finally became aware of this problem and announced, at the National Conference of Territories, a €5 billion envelope to revitalize small town centres. It remains to be seen what the concrete effect of these measures will be for rural areas. I repeat this once again – even shouting in the desert –: your budget is sorely lacking courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u137	Posture!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u138	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] You announced at the beginning of the review of this budget that in the "new world", the conditions for budgetary review would be renewed: it was not. The parliamentary procedure has rarely been so ill-treated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u139	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u140	This is the sixth budget that I see in our House, ladies and gentlemen. I can tell you that the way in which we have examined it shows that Parliament has been mistreated. There's a real difference between this year and previous years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u141	You're loading the boat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u142	This budget – the first of your legislature – that you wanted so ambitious only relaxes efforts, despite a very favourable context! What will happen to your next budgets if, unfortunately, the economic situation is less favourable? That must be taken into account. This budget cannot hold the road if you start without loosening the hand brake. You drown your own engine, you who said you were so fresh, so new. As you step back, you're going to ruin this new growth that we need to use as a springboard. Moreover, in its opinion on the second amending finance bill for 2017, the High Council for Public Finance considers that the structural effort is "nearly non-existent in 2017 and very weak in the 2018 forecast", while "the improvement of the economic situation creates more favourable conditions for the realization of such an effort". The European Commission, for its part, considers the French budget slippage to be significant. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] This 2018 budget is all the more regrettable because it is unfair. First of all, it is unfair for pensioners, who will experience a sharp 25% increase in the CSG – a generalised social contribution – without compensation, voted in the framework of the Social Security funding bill. It is unfair to all French people who have to use their cars, especially those living in rural areas, because they have no other way to move. All of these, often modest, will receive an unprecedented tax shock due to the increase in fuel prices. This will be the case, in particular, for people living in rural areas who travel to work by car.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u143	They all have a diesel car, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u144	It is also unfair for those who do not live in the major cities, whose access to the zero-rate loan for the acquisition of new housing will be restricted and who will no longer benefit from the Pinel tax advantage. It is unfair to those who want to become owners, and who will no longer benefit from the APL accession scheme. The rapporteur-general has mentioned this point: we will have an opportunity to discuss it again. It is unfair for savers: the taxation of the housing savings plan will be less advantageous, and the interest rate of Book A is frozen at a historically low level, which does not even compensate for inflation. It is unfair to social donors, whose incomes will fall; Some will disappear, others will have to give up building new housing or renovating old housing. It remains for me to urge you not to block the amendments of the Senate, to accept adjustments, inflections, progress that are intended to be constructive and relevant. I am not asking you to accept them all, because I understand the differences in sensitivity that separate us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u145	It doesn't sound like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u146	On the other hand, I ask you not to systematically reject them with a back of your hand. It is about the quality of Parliament's work. We should all agree that bicameralism and co-construction improve the quality of texts. We should therefore, in order to get out of the rut, adopt a more courageous and fairer budget for the economic and social recovery of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u147	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u148	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, at second reading we are discussing the draft finance law for 2018. One hundred and fifty hours of debate allowed our assembly to change the government's text at first reading. The discussion that we are about to have, following the amendment of the text by the Senate, will make it possible to democratically complete the project that we are carrying out for France. In its great wisdom, the Senate has certainly improved the text on certain points; However, it is up to us to re-establish a number of principles which have been deleted in the High Assembly's consideration of these texts. At first reading, we defended a sincere budget that restores France's place in Europe, a budget that initiates a fair and efficient growth model, but also a fraternal budget. The first of our ambitions is to restore France's budgetary credibility on the European stage. We cannot achieve our ambitions without respecting the rules we have set ourselves. From this point of view, the 2018 budget will finally allow us to get out of the excessive deficit procedure and restore the credibility of France in its role as a European engine. However, we must remain vigilant. The return to growth must lead us to consolidate our public finances in a constant logic of monitoring and evaluating the policies we are putting in place. It is therefore not a question of planing budgets blindly, but of ensuring that every euro drawn from the French is used effectively to serve the common good. The seven working groups on Assembly reform delivered their proposals on Wednesday. They will make it possible to change our way of working to improve the effectiveness of the legislative procedure and to meet the urgent needs for evaluation. Reversing the logic of the budgetary procedure, strengthening the impact assessments and extending them to government amendments, instructing the Government to report on the implementation of the laws six months after their vote, extending the power to summon, communicate and monitor on-site and on-site Members of Parliament: all of these proposals will help to improve the quality of the texts we are voting in this forum. We must discuss all these proposals: let us not let them fall into oblivion. They will inform, simplify and improve the way we vote on laws, to modernize our legislative process. The budget we voted on at first reading, which we are discussing again today, outlines a new model of growth and sets in motion the major changes that our country needs. France wants to be at the forefront of the ecological transition, as the President of the Republic once again stated in his speech in Paris earlier this week. We have defined the means of this transformation: redesign of the carbon tax trajectory, modification of the scope and exit of the tax credit for the energy transition, the ISCED, always with a view to the efficiency of public spending. Our country's economic modernization requires, first and foremost, the reform of savings taxation and the reduction of corporate taxes. In order to innovate, invest and recruit, companies must have the appropriate financing. But equity financing, which is needed at the key stages of enterprise development, is often insufficient: for this reason, it must fall back on debt, a solution that is more prudent but less conducive to risk-taking and innovation. That is why we have made the bet that the recasting of the ISF and the creation of the single flat-rate levy will direct French savings towards companies. We accept this choice and will monitor these reforms through rigorous assessments. By amendment, honourable senators have introduced an anti-abuse mechanism for the UFP: we will ensure that it is specifically considered by our chamber. During the first reading of the finance bill, we defended tax incentives for savers to finance SMEs by strengthening the so-called "IR-SME" scheme. These fiscal policies will be accompanied in the spring by the Business Growth and Transformation Action Plan, which the Minister of Economy and Finance is responsible for, which will bring into line a set of mechanisms aimed at facilitating the financing of enterprises, stimulating their digitisation and simplifying their approaches. Some provisions adopted by the Senate do not seem relevant to us: over-amortization, for example, must remain a temporary tool that can be mobilised by the state when the economy needs it most. On the other hand, the framework for fees levied by intermediaries under IR-SMEs is a very interesting proposal. This finance bill also provides an opportunity to reshape housing policy with a dual objective: to put an end to counterproductive housing support policies by ensuring a fair transition, and to strengthen incentives to reinvigorate housing supply. The Senate voted against the provisions proposed by the Government and adopted by our Assembly on this matter, refusing the reduction of solidarity rent in the social park; However, we welcome the Government's compromise on the gradual reduction of rents in the social park by 2020. There was a need to put an end to a system in which the State paid twice without achieving the objectives of the policy, namely, to improve housing for the French. Aware of the need to smooth out the effects of this decline in revenue for donors and in order to better accompany them, we welcome the agreement reached by the Government with the Federation of Social Enterprises for Housing, signed by you, Mr. Minister, which is based on the strengthening of equalization and the raising of VAT and on significant support for the exploitation and investment of social donors. In the same spirit of social justice and efficiency, we supported the extension of the Pinel scheme for four years, because we are convinced that the revival of the construction of new housing, initiated since 2014, still requires tax support in order to sustain it. However, we too will be very vigilant about the risks of an overly brutal end to the APL accession scheme and will support, during the examination of the second part, the amendments tabled by the special rapporteur François Jolivet in order to promote the residential path in social housing by allowing households to access the expected solvency threshold, and thus to property. The transformation of our public policies thus draws the contour of a France that is both fairer and more efficient. It sets the country on the path of regaining prosperity, while giving everyone the opportunity to reap the fruits of it. It is in order to engage France on the path of a more open, creative and fraternal society that our majority makes the choice to revalue the work and support the purchasing power of French and French people. That is why we voted to shift the burden on wages to the CSG, which is based on all incomes, and to exempt 80% of households from an unfair tax, the rapporteur-general pointed out, namely the housing tax. The Senate, for its part, has deleted this article; We'll restore it. But let us not forget that among the actors and places of solidarity, the family is in a good place. The Senate recognized the importance of returning to the family quotient ceiling, which had been lowered in the previous period. The subject had been revived by the President of the Republic when he was a candidate. This policy is a strong signal to families, it promotes birth and is a real force for France. Here too, we will have to make proposals. Solidarity must also be found in all territories without distinction. The Senate removed the device proposed by the MODEM group, by the voice of its chairman, Marc Fesneau. Adopted on first reading, it introduced a land tax reduction for small businesses. The aim of this scheme is to respond to growing territorial divides and to give more freedom to the communes. It is in order to support the vitality of these city centres and our communes that we will continue to defend this measure at second reading. It is also in this spirit that we will support the rapporteur-general's proposal for the DCRTP – the allocation of compensation for the reform of the trade tax – so that the municipalities of the rural territories are not forgotten in this budget. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the REM group]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM Group will vote on this first five-year budget at the time of the commitments it has made to the French. This is the first stage of our project for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u149	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u150	[[Smile]] For a maximum of ten minutes! It'll be possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u151	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to denounce the conditions under which we have had to examine the various texts relating to the nation's budget – but this also applies, to a lesser extent, to the Social Security funding bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u152	We had to vote on our motion to refer it back to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u153	Last-minute text presentations, deadlines for tabling amendments become so short that there is no time to draft them and government amendments introduced at the middle of the meeting, without having been able to know about them before and to measure their impact in committee. The new majority loves to oppose what it calls "the new world" to "the old world", but you who wanted to change the rules, ladies and gentlemen, you have just experienced the practices of the old world throughout this fiscal year. Now that you have experienced it, you may understand a little better how state scandals such as the 3% dividend tax, which will cost nearly 11 billion in the state budget, have been voted on here, and why the image of amateurism is sometimes associated with the work of parliamentarians, when it is largely the result of a lack of in-depth debate in committee. I hope, Minister, that this first quinquennium budget period will not be used as a test to generalise these practices which cannot really be dealt with by serious parliamentary work. Unfortunately, however, the amendment you have just tabled to section 24 of the programming bill, on the extremely difficult subject of regulating local public expenditure, is still an example. With regard to the public finance programming bill, I would first like to say to you, minister, that the savings remain insufficient to maintain our country's objective of recovering public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u154	It's never enough for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u155	Your initial objective, and we supported it, was to stabilize public expenditure in volume in 2018 and, tendingly, to save 20 billion euros. That was your position during the budget policy debate in July. But the result shows a very insufficient effort in terms of savings, since you have foreseen in the finance bill a 0.5% increase in the volume of public expenditure: between the July and September forecasts, the gap is already 6 billion! Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, this 0.5 % increase is not representative of the reality, because it should be added to the explosion of tax credits. Taking this increase into account, since tax credits constitute an expenditure within the meaning of the national accounts, the volume increase is not 0.5%, but 0.9%. The gap between the July forecast and the current situation represents a sum of around EUR 10 billion, i.e. half of what should be done. Finally, it is there, Mr Minister: France has won the gold medal of the tax pressure in Europe. In 2016, according to an OECD study, tax revenues including taxes and social contributions accounted for 47.6% of GDP, while the euro area average was 41.3%. We have just doubled Denmark – 47.3% – but it is done. Of course, you have nothing to do with it, since it is the 2016 figures, but I note that compulsory levies are not significantly reduced. We will therefore retain this gold medal because, throughout Europe, public spending and tax pressure are being reduced. This small reduction in deficits is contrary to our European commitments. It should be noted that the reduction in structural public deficits is really very low: 0.1 percentage points of GDP, i.e. 2 billion, whereas we should reach 0.5 percentage points, i.e. 10 billion to 11 billion. What is serious in the programming bill is that this 0.5 per cent target is never achieved: the average is just 0.3 per cent. The government deficit is expected to reach 2.8% based on your recalculations of GDP, which is well above the European average. We have to realize that we are still the wrong student in the class. Our country was already the last, together with Spain, to be in an excessive deficit procedure, and this rate of 2.8% will not allow us to start reducing our debt-to-GDP ratio, unlike all other European countries. The assumption that local and regional authorities will devote all of the improvement of their self-financing capacity to the repayment of their borrowing beyond their normal deleveraging is totally unrealistic. Not only is this small reduction in the structural deficit not in line with our European commitments, but it leads to significant risks of slippage in relation to the medium-term objective, the LMO, defined by the European Commission. This last point was highlighted during the two hearings of European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, who recalled in particular the extreme fragility of the French budgetary situation. Your fiscal policy is insufficient to overcome the chronic risks facing France's budget. You are making an effort in this finance law for 2018 by reducing recurring sub-budgeting to €3 billion, but this effort is still not complete. They remain important. For example, you only expect an additional $200 million to increase the appropriations for external operations to 650 million, while at the end of 2017 the estimated cost of OPEX was 1.5 billion. Why didn't you go to the end by budgeting 750 million to 850 million more? As for the cost of litigation related to the cancellation of the 3% dividend contribution, between $11 billion and $12 billion with interest, you only count $5 billion when you know that at the end of October 2017, 7.2 billion claims were already filed. As far as contracting with certain local and regional authorities is concerned, I think you are making a mistake. Indeed, the Government mainly weighs the effort to control public spending on local authorities, hoping, under the effect of the financial pact they have entered into with the State, to save about 3 billion euros according to your initial forecasts. But the facts are stubborn: how could contracts implemented starting in 2018 produce effects as soon as next year? They will only produce them in 2019 or 2020 at the earliest. In the amendment you have just tabled to section 24 of the programming bill, you want to limit the evolution of actual operating expenditures to 1.2% in value and at constant scope over the period 2018-2022, with an annual saving of about 2.6 billion, or 13 billion over the period; But your system presents a very serious risk of unconstitutionality in the light of the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. With regard to the 2018 finance bill, I have already said on several occasions: the savings are insufficient, we would have to make 20 billion as you said in July, and you are only half of it. And we can only partially find the $7 billion pledged. In the savings on housing credits, you yourself have had to develop a completely inadequate scheme: you are moving towards a serious housing crisis, not only because of the inadaptation of the decline of the LPA on the HLM alone, but also because of the maintenance of the IFI and the non-taxation of real estate income. A real housing policy would be to reorganize the 717 HLM organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u156	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u157	No, everything remains to be done, and it is a considerable work that cannot be done in a few months. And then you do not save on staff costs, minister: in terms of downsizing, nothing or almost zero. This is probably one of your biggest mistakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u158	Thank you for the officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u159	And the wage bill in the state alone will increase by 2.3% next year. You cannot correct the French public finances without making an effort on the numbers, which the President of the Republic had promised during the campaign. You promised less than 50,000 on the state civil service: when are you going to do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u160	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u161	My dear colleague, when you start wrong in life and say, "I'll do better tomorrow. ... It is today that we must begin, even if we release the effort after three to four years, but not the other way around. Everyone who did this has come to a political catastrophe. There are certainly good things in this draft budget. I am thinking first of all of abolishing the ISF: alas, you have not gone to the end, but it is a real progress, 80% of what had to be done. Another real progress is the flat tax. Here too, you do not go to the end, limiting it to movable income. I note in passing that the economic basis for these two measures is non-existent. And then you make a number of mistakes. Thus, the removal of the housing tax, which will be total over time, is a real error from a twofold point of view: from the point of view of the link between voters and their local elected representatives, but also because this system will encourage public spending by offsetting the amount as it is, whether the community spends much or little. This is contrary to our view of local democracy. Here, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are some considerations on these two texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u162	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u163	Mr Minister, a large majority of the Members who sit on these benches appreciated the way in which you led the housing reform and the way in which you, together with the Prime Minister, laid the foundations for a real transformation of the economic and social model of social housing players. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] This famous article 52, which we have considered to be an invitation to negotiate for housing actors, has allowed them, often very stoic when the state asked them to come, to table and work so that after a century of history, this sector can finally be reformed. You have known, Minister, that you have reached an agreement with the Federation of Social Enterprises for Housing. Other actors have stayed a little behind, but I know that they have committed themselves to the state first and that they will be able to put in shape with you the reform that is emerging. On the other hand, everyone agrees that the economic model of social housing needs to be reformed: this is the real reason why I am telling you that you have been right in this direction. At first reading, you agreed to extend the implementation of this reform over three years: I give you notice. In fact, Parliament, and in particular the National Assembly, has enabled you to put it in place. Anyway, thank you for introducing her. At first reading, you also agreed, following the amendments that had been tabled on VAT, that this technique allowing a sharing of the financial effort between the operating accounts and the balance sheet operations of the HLM organizations should be resumed in the Senate. This is a good action, which will allow social housing actors a little more time to implement this reform over three years. The basis for this is now laid. I trust the collective intelligence of the leaders of HLM organizations and their teams to put it in place. They will do what they want to do with reform, but the state will have done its job. The structural transformation of the economic and social model of social housing therefore begins with the adoption of the fundamentals contained in Article 52, as well as with the protocol signed by the Federation of ESH setting the timetable for implementing the reduction of solidarity rent, the RLS. The Caisse des dépôts et consignations will play an important role. It may also be up to local and regional authorities to consider the relevance of combining the operational governance roles of the housing actors they hold and the territorial governance roles of housing policies that they define. It will also be up to the State, social housing actors and local and regional authorities to build the conditions for a policy of selling HLM's heritage, so that it can self-finance itself: its 4.5 million dwellings cannot have a value equal to zero. At a time when the President of the Republic and the Government have pledged to the French to take up the indispensable subject of the attractiveness of small towns, especially in rural areas – which are not subject to metropolitan policies often strongly supported by the State – we must ask ourselves about the total abolition of the LPA accession. This is an essential aid to enable, in particular, modest families to gain access to property. This is why it is important, in the aftermath of the National Conference of Delocalized Territories in the Lot, to possibly review the Government's position regarding the total disappearance of the APL's accession to French territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u165	You will see, Minister, that a number of Members have tabled amendments. I hope you can give some of them a positive follow-up. The State must stand in solidarity with its territories. If, however, the decline in the value of the zero-rate loan, the PTZ in rural areas can be understood, its concomitance with the abolition of the APL accession will make home ownership very difficult in practice. Our country now has 480,000 beneficiaries benefiting from the APL accession; 62 per cent live in zone 3, and 26 per cent live in zone 2. The rural elected one that I am confident in your wisdom as well as that of the Government on this point, Minister; He knows how to count on it. The Court of Auditors had also stressed, in its November 2016 report on social accession, the need to maintain the principle of the accession LPA in rural areas. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Your majority awaits you on this issue, Minister: it carries the expectations of all the territories of France. If she knows that the fiscal year is difficult, she also knows that you will find the means and the courage to ensure that these difficulties do not hinder ownership in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u166	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u167	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this finance bill, the first of this Government that has claimed a new world, is now coming before our House. It does not satisfy us – no one will be surprised – whether it is its overall content or the answers that have been given to the various proposals that we island members of the current territorial majority have made since October. I tend to think – but I know that I'm not the only one in this House – that in essence, this first budget can be summed up as follows: the more economically, socially and territorially preferred, the more help you get, the more disadvantage you get and the more forced you get at the start, and the more you have to try to get over it with weights attached to your ankles! Increase in the CSG for pensioners, incomprehensible decline of the APLs, which destabilizes all our local social housing policies, abrupt end of assisted contracts in our communities – all the people concerned are now unemployed or at the RSA – and I'm passing. I was also alerted about the non-compensation of the CITS – the wage tax credit – for personal assistance or home-based hospital services, which, however, play a vital role in rural areas. The removal of the housing tax undermines local democracy as well as the future revenues of small communities. The removal of PTZ for rural areas will do nothing. But what is of the utmost concern to us in this budget is the low level of consideration given to the territories in general, and to the rural, mountainous, island and urban areas in particular. Territoriality does not seem to be a notion that you integrate into your policies: it is to believe that the word territory is not part of the vocabulary, or even a big word. The lack of local anchor is, for us, the original sin. President Macron told us about a girondin pact. If we could believe it for a while, it was in the end only a smokescreen. It even turns out, here, a fraud. This is an impossibility in the method, since we return to thirty-five years of decentralization by showing a jacobinism never equalled to this day, since political discussion is being undermined and technostructure systematically takes precedence. You are talking about territorial experimentation, but it is a possible experiment, seen and authorised from Paris, which can be adapted once the prism of the prefects has passed: I therefore fear that your contract between the State and the communities will be considered only from the point of view of strengthening guardianship. This is proof of the dark cuts made in catimini this summer within the appropriations for rural development and support for local investment. Nor should we forget the scissors effect – present and future – that will be caused by the combined effect of the declines in endowments and the legitimate transfers of powers, particularly economic ones, which have been carried out for years for the benefit of the territories. Modernism now consists, to avoid this scissor effect, of going further in tax transfers for the benefit of our communities. This is particularly true if one considers a territory like Corsica – I am going to be surprised by more than one – whose tax revenues to the State have increased by 98% in twelve years, with VAT alone growing by 79% over the same period, compared with 32% on average for the French regions. We are aware that this implies a profound change in the state budget. If, however, we want to respect the desire for democratic respiration of the territories and regions, and to be in line with the logic of economic efficiency, which creates jobs, which is now based on local governance, we need to change software. As far as Corsica is concerned, you have, Mr Minister, absolutely refused everything. You have interpreted the law as you wished, by removing the allocation of territorial continuity from the general allocation of decentralization – DGD – at the time of the transfer of VAT, while the general code of territorial authorities itself clearly included this allocation of continuity within it. To believe that you want to kill in the egg the future unique community of Corsica! More serious, by rejecting our amendments aimed at making more attractive the local investment funds – the FIPs – which unfortunately intervene in place, and not in addition to the banks in the entrepreneurial projects carried out on the island, you have shown your misunderstanding of island specificity. With this refusal, you are putting a blow to the Corsican will to get out of the predominance of the public service as well as of the dependence on subsidies, which has been denounced over time in the media. In fact, contrary to what is happening in other French regions, banks and insurance companies in Corsica have 10 billion euros in savings and only reinject to the local economy 7 billion euros: 3 billion euros thus flee the territory. Banks located on the island are not so far very focused on the effort to build a local productive economy. However, the fiscal attractiveness of PIFs made up for, or mitigated, this structural deficiency. Once again, you would have had to listen to the real specificities of this territory to understand this clear and simple phenomenon. Your refusal to raise the research innovation tax credit to 50% on the island also illustrated this attitude, even though very small Corsican companies have lower expenditures in this area than their ultramarine counterparts. It is more than time, as the Association des régions de France demands, for a genuine dialogue without taboos to open up to the future of the island. The same must be true between Paris and all regions. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] That is why, and you will not be surprised, we will definitely not vote for this budget, because it is profoundly unfair, technocratic and Jacobin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u168	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u169	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, if this budget debate has been rich, it will probably still be. My remarks will be, and this will not surprise you given my expertise in this area, on local and regional authorities and on public policies that concern them, topics on which the debate has also been rich. Our dear friend and colleague François Jolivet has just talked about it, as many others have done before him: when it comes to communities, we must go in the direction of reality. There have been many debates in the Senate, as in the Assembly. Others take place outside our hemicycles: I am thinking in particular of the National Conference of Territories, a new, functional, structured and developed organization. We saw it yesterday, since its work led to amendments: I will, of course, mention it, since we were then able to measure the progress made in the discussions that we have had, which the ministers and local elected associations may have had. Beyond this, the mission led by Alain Richard and Dominique Bur deals with the challenges of controlling local public spending. And it is this mastery, which is precisely demanded of the communities, that is the issue of the debate. Why? When we objectively analyse the subject for this year and those to come, not those of the past, we find that the budgetary effort made by the communities represents a sixth of the effort required of all the administrations, i.e. 13 billion euros over the legislature. When I read the amendment that has been tabled, but also the articles concerned, we are talking about a growth rate – not a decrease – of 1.2%. For us legislators, the text is important. This means that community spending can increase, but in a measured way: this is an essential point. Beyond this fiscal effort, which is an effort – positive, not negative – of growth, let us return to the logic of contracting, a subject that is evolving. Yesterday, an amendment – which you can consult on your benches, on your tablets or in your electronic mailboxes – was tabled: it offers a very good reading of what smart negotiation between communities, the state and associations can lead to. This successful amendment will be defended by the Minister: it is based on a definition of contracting based on a logic not more demographic, but financial. It is true that, when it comes to operating revenue, a logic of expenditure is much more appropriate when it comes to public finances. The contract will therefore involve 340 communities, which represents only 1 per cent of our country's territorial communities. Rural communes are therefore excluded from the scheme, which will be a response to those who intend not to pay attention to these communes. Today, everyone has become aware of this element. The structural effort will obviously have to be respected by all communities. In this second phase of government action, elected representatives are asked to show confidence: municipalities that will not contract will have to have directed expenditure, i.e. controlled, in the same proportion as national public expenditure. This is the great step forward: today, the contractual arrangements have been adapted to the territorial reality. Beyond this issue, I will be vigilant with regard to the overall operating staffing, the DGF, which we have seen to be maintained and stabilized. This stabilization is known to all. On the other hand, within it, we will have to have a debate on the allocation of compensation for the reform of the vocational tax, the DCRTP and on other developments concerning the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion, the DSU, or the allocation of rural solidarity, the DSR. This must guide our work in the years to come, that is, we need to review equalization within the FB so that it is more firmly established. What's the goal? Improve spending, beyond reducing and compensating for self-financing. The key word to reach it is: mastery. Why? Because mastery is a key to success in both finance and local power. So this concerns us all. Two points to conclude. First of all, public administrations must adapt to their territories, because if this condition is met, then the finances will adapt to them. This maxim must, you will understand, encourage us to work together. The one that has just taken place has resulted in the amendment that I have referred to. The revision of our local taxation – which has been requested, but not only, by our Corsican colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva – as well as our finances, our endowments and, above all, our exemptions, which are extremely costly for our State, is a necessity. Finally, beyond this new "grammar", as a great man calls him – by his size and by his function, namely our Prime Minister (Sorry) –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u170	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u171	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... the relationship between the subject, the communities, the verb, the finances, and the direct complement to the object, which the state will be, will have to be the guarantee of our success. We must be not an observer, but a builder of the future financial pact!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u172	The last speaker on the list is Mr Laurent Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u173	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the finance bill for 2018 is not just a balancing exercise between revenue and expenditure. This text gives a course and impetus. What enlivens it is the will to give the State the means of a just and effective action. This budget is, in this respect, the founding act of the quinquennium. The credibility and stability it will bring will give the necessary impetus to the transformation of our country. The first reading had given rise to lengthy and exciting debates. Ladies and gentlemen from the left of the Chamber, you have told us at length that we are defending a budget for the benefit of a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u175	However, you cannot ignore that this text will restore purchasing power to the greatest number – more than six in ten French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u176	Most people don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u177	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] As you know, we are committed to the idea that work is better paid. As early as January 2018, that is, in a few days, work will pay more. Employees will see their net wages increase as their unemployment and sickness contributions are abolished. For example, for a couple at the SMIC, this will amount to an additional €540 per year. Dear colleagues on the right, you who, since the presidential campaign, are calling for a particularly harsh policy of rigour for France to contain its deficit, agree that we are succeeding in achieving the objective, while avoiding many cuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u178	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u179	These debates have been extended by the Senate. On the other hand, the text it adopted on Tuesday does not reflect the same desire for balance. Honourable senators are proposing a budget for 2018 that is thoroughly rewritten, which, by the way, includes a budgetary drift of 15 billion euros, while removing two symbolic measures that we adopted at first reading: the reform of the housing tax and the new property tax. To remove the reform of the housing tax is to remove an increase in purchasing power for the French, it is also not to want to break with one of the country's most unjust taxes. In the long term, 80 % of households would receive an average gain of 550 euros per year, without postponing the burden on the remaining 20 % or penalising the budgets of the municipalities, with the State compensating for the euro. Similarly, we stress the need to maintain the reform of the ISF, the solidarity tax on wealth. This fiscal development will be a lever for growth and support for employment. There is a need for a differentiated tax policy for different assets. The introduction of the single flat-rate levy and the replacement of the ISF by a single property tax are designed to encourage productive investment rather than rent. We take these strong decisions. Because it accompanies the transformations that our country needs, this draft budget can, it is true, be perceived as a shock – a fiscal and regulatory shock. Through this text, it is also a long-term commitment that we take: it is a first impulse waiting for a much larger movement. With this change in the tax environment, unprecedented in France, the initiative and the audacity have never been so encouraged. We will now have to realize these ambitions. According to a recent study by the Banque de France, the saving rate continues to rise in France and real estate still accounts for 55% of households' wealth. In this context, making the bet on productive investment requires pedagogy and work in collaboration with all the actors in the place. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, all financial intermediaries will be brought together on 22 January, at the initiative of public decision-makers, in order to work together to match the proposed financial products with the investment needs of the French. Financial actors will need to make financing solutions more accessible and easier to understand in order to give individuals freedom, choice and financial performance. The first obstacle to investment is the difficulty in understanding the use of the funds invested. However, investing means enabling the development of a company, thus hiring and training; It is to support innovation and the growth of promising companies. The savers will thus become investors for a better-so-collective: theirs and that of our economic fabric. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We are for purchasing power, for the power to invest, to give a future with, by and for all actors. We hope that this new reading will be an opportunity to demonstrate this to you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u180	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u181	I now call the clauses of the 2018 Finance Bill in the text passed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u182	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u183	As part of this amendment, I would like to return once again to the structural deficit – I know that the subject is not necessarily passionate, but it is on this point, that is, on our ability to manage our public finances, that we are judged by the European Commission. Minister, I have already asked you about this; I had already questioned your colleague Bruno Le Maire two weeks ago: the European Commission has expressed doubts about the data you sent to him. Very accurately, she believes that your budget proposal poses a risk of non-compliance. I repeat: for this exercise, the Commission takes up your assumptions and recalculates. She doesn't make any assumptions other than yours. But it clearly says that in view of the massive tax cuts that you are making, and which will mainly concern the highest incomes, namely less than 1% of the French, the only thing you are going to do is to degrade the structural part of the deficit. The purpose of my amendment is to propose a different vision than yours on the structural deficit. I look forward to the minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u185	The committee's opinion is unfavourable, as is previous opinions on similar amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u187	Unfavorable opinion. First, the High Council for Public Finance has given the Government a degree of satisfaction, particularly with regard to the trajectory of public finances. Then, to return to the tragi-comedy that you played in the Chamber before Bruno Le Maire, concerning the possible questioning of the European Commission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u188	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u189	...I remind you that if this one asks questions, it is because of the two legacies that you left us! The first one's called Areva.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u190	No, that's not what the Commission says! It's not taken into account in his calculation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u191	Yet it was you who did not budget the restructuring of Areva; You can't support the opposite, Mrs. Rabault! Secondly, there are the consequences of the 3% tax censorship on dividends: neither Mr Le Maire nor I were then responsible! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mrs. Rabault, if I could answer arguments that coincide with the truth of the numbers, you would see me happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u192	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u193	I can't let you say that, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u194	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u195	The simplest thing is to read what the European Commission wrote in its opinion. Refer to page 79 of the document – sorry, it is in English. You will see that in its calculations, it did not take into account the impact of the restructuring of Areva or the cancellation of the 3% tax. It was based solely on your 2018 finance bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u196	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, between us, whether we have European commitments or not, this does not change the problem: in any case, we must reduce France's budget deficit. With a growth rate of 1.5% or 1.7%, France cannot bear a deficit of more than 1.2% or 1.3% and, in any event, certainly not a deficit of 3%. The European constraint is quite lax: it is not the 3% that must be achieved; we must return to balance and restore the health of our public finances. Nevertheless, Amendment No 298 tends to remind the European Commission of our commitments: the reduction of the structural deficit must be in the order of 0.5% of gross domestic product per year. However, we are far from it, since we expect 0.1% for 2018. When we auditioned him this week, Pierre Moscovici said that it might pass – it is not he who decides – but that if it passes, the requirements would be tightened for the following years and that it would have to go beyond 0.5%. Over the last five years, however, an average of only 0.3 per cent per year has been achieved. We've never reached 0.5%. On time and on time, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will recall this requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u199	Unfavorable. Commissioner Pierre Moscovici indicated on Wednesday the possibility of a structural adjustment limited to 0.1% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u200	Exceptionally!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u201	Exceptionally, of course, but that's what he said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u203	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u204	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u205	Mr General, I love you very much,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u206	[[Smile]] Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u207	...but I can't let you say that! What Mr Moscovici said was that if the European Commission accepted an effort of 0.1%, it was subject to further tightening; Instead, he mentioned 0.6 per cent for the following years. This is not what the programming law provides for. You will see: the Government will again be condemned, Mr Darmanin! There is a sort of fatality in this country: since we are not rigorous enough during the first two or three years of the legislature, we must then reverse the trend, harden politics considerably, and it is the political crash! That's what's going to happen to you! It is now that we must act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u208	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u209	Mr Moscovici is being told a lot. What I remember is that he pointed out that a structural adjustment of 0.1% was acceptable, that what was important was to make structural efforts, and that he felt that these efforts would be made and that we would converge without difficulty towards the European standard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u210	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u211	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 341.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u212	It is a question of deleting a table added by the Senate, which gives the values in euros and not in points of gross domestic product. It is these who are recognised at European level to carry out certain calculations and to produce synthesises. In addition, values expressed in euro would be far too precise. Last but not least, this table does not take into account the decisions taken following the Constitutional Council's censorship of the 3% dividend tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u214	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u215	We are addressing the review of the first part of the 2018 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u216	I have before me two amendments, Nos 176 and 190, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u217	This amendment echoes some of the concerns expressed during the general discussion by members of the majority, who were talking about social justice and the virtues of the bill in this area. However, we can go even further by improving tax justice. I therefore have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you will vote for this amendment, which tends to raise the number of income tax brackets to fourteen. In our proposal for a comprehensive reform of the tax system, in particular, this measure is complemented, in a coherent way, by the merger of income tax and the CSG; However, adopting it now would be a first step. Income tax now accounts for less than 20% of French tax resources; In addition to having a low yield, it is unequal. The change in the bands we are proposing is intended to make it more progressive and therefore fairer. As I said, we would like to increase the number of these tranches from five to fourteen, a step which would go back to the decision taken by Messrs. Sarkozy and Fillon, and never questioned by MM. Holland, Ayrault and Valls, to focus most of the effort on the middle classes. Since the majority pride themselves on opening up a new era, I have no doubt that it will break with previous governments, even if many of their members are in the current Government. With our new scale, everyone pays, but up to their means. Everyone must participate, even symbolically, in the financing of public services that ensure social cohesion: a majority of our citizens, I am sure, are committed to making this effort, even if they do not yet have the means to do so. The reform we support would allow them, which would also strengthen, we believe, consent to tax. We also wish, by this amendment, to reduce the effort of middle-class taxpayers by increasing, in return, the taxation of the highest incomes. This is a measure of tax justice and social common sense: I have no doubt that you will be convinced of this, ladies and gentlemen, and that you will therefore vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u218	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u219	[[Smiles and exclamations on several benches in the FI group]] My colleague proposes fourteen tranches; In the absence of fourteen, we propose nine: to choose! The logic is, however, the same: to improve the progressivity of the tax, to make it fairer, so to go back to the decisions of the previous governments that led to the establishment of five tranches. Everyone must pay according to his means without being struck by the current five-tier scale, which penalises in particular the middle classes, whose amendment tends to reduce the tax to increase the tax of the richest. An increased return on income tax would make it possible to finance, for example, certain measures that we propose, such as the application of a reduced VAT rate on passenger transport, waste collection or the public water service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u221	It has been the habit of seeing such amendments for several years. For some time now, it has been noted, that the progressivity of income tax has been strengthened, so that 70 per cent of this tax is now paid by the 10 per cent of the most affluent households. The exceptional contribution called "Fillon surtax", let me also remind you, already applies to the highest incomes through the increase of the marginal rate of 45%. Another problem: the Constitutional Council considers that, beyond a certain level, taxation is confiscatory; In this case, it would become so with a slice that you propose to establish. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u222	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 342 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u223	This is one of many amendments aimed at re-establishing the text adopted by the National Assembly at first reading. It should be noted that the Senate restored the 5.5 per cent tax bracket, which was removed by the original 2015 Finance Act, with the objective of subjecting the income tax to tax-free households today. I propose that you remove this measure, which would increase household taxes to modest and medium incomes. The Senate has also increased the ceiling for the benefit of the family quotient, bringing it from 1727 euros to 1750 per half share, at a modest cost of 1.4 million euros. Let us return to the original text of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u225	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u226	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u227	I think our rapporteur-general's argument is somewhat excessive. The percentage of our citizens subject to income tax, which had risen to 56 or 57 per cent, has fallen to 43 per cent. France is the only Western democracy where this percentage is so low. However, paying taxes also means participating in national solidarity and in the functioning of public services. It would be interesting for the Minister to clarify the Government's intentions in this area for the next five years: will he continue to reduce the share of those of our fellow citizens who pay income tax, stabilize it or increase it? As for the capping of the benefit derived from the family quotient, a modification which could take the form, for example, of a tax credit for families seems to me to be possible; But treating families that have children and families that do not have them in the same way is fundamentally anti-social, rapporteur-general. The Senate's proposal therefore deserved debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u228	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u229	This amendment should convince you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as it would generate savings. In a 2011 report, the Family High Council indicated that the more a couple's income increases, the more the couple benefits from the joint taxation system. This provision therefore weakens tax escalation. In these circumstances, our amendment aims to limit the tax reduction resulting from the application of the marital quotient to married or pacsed couples to EUR 2590 per share. In 2011, the Treasury Directorate-General simulated the introduction of this ceiling, stating that it would generate revenue of EUR 1.35 billion. This figure, which should be updated, already shows the magnitude of the potential savings: 1.35 billion is not nothing, and we will know how to use such a sum. It would, for example, relieve the middle and working class who pay the tax. In committee, the rapporteur-general had acknowledged the value of the cap while worrying about the effects he would have on the households concerned. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen: only 4% of married or pampered couples, among the most affluent, would see their taxes increase slightly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u231	These households would therefore be able to cope with such an increase, given that three quarters of them are in the tenth decile in terms of standard of living, and that they will benefit from the many tax gifts provided. Finally, I have no doubt that they too are committed to participating in the national effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u233	Same opinion as at first reading, unfavorable. The number of people affected by such a measure, Ms.Obono, would be higher than you say: it would have a strong impact on couples with three or more children, who would lose on average more than couples without children or have only one or two children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u234	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support amendment No. 358 by the committee, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u235	This amendment actually tends to delete an article introduced by the Senate that introduces an income tax exemption of 3000 euros for income derived from online platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u237	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u238	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u239	The Senate, with this measure, has posed a real problem, on which I therefore wish to question the Government. The so-called "collaborative" economy, in all its forms, is developing, not only in the housing sector, but also, for example, in the car transport sector. Does the Government envisage, through the future draft law on enterprises, giving these activities a "taxo-social" status, even proposing a definition of them and introducing a threshold of exemption – which may go, let's say, from 3000 to 5000 euros –, as several countries have already done, including Belgium? We cannot allow the present situation to continue: in this sense, the Senate has been right to raise the problem, even if the solution it proposes, apart from being purely fiscal, is based on an insufficient definition of this type of activity. What is the Government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u240	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u241	I would like to speak, because my amendment No 94 will fall if the one we are discussing is voted on. I share the concern of the Senate about the overall assessment that we need to have business income; But the idea of an exemption of up to 3000 euros, which is quite new, is also contrary to what has always been done with regard to income tax. Our amendment was therefore intended to significantly lower the exemption threshold. In any event, we support the committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u242	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u243	After the debate on fraud, Mr de Courson asked a new question which Mrs Rabault in turn echoed. We cannot deny that the "collaborative" economy, this new economy based on platforms and sharing, is an important source of remuneration for some of our citizens, regardless of the field of activity concerned. Did the Government envisage, Mr. de Courson asked, creating a new tax and social status, by introducing a tax-free system? First of all, with regard to fraud, the reasons for paying tax in France must be the same for the "collaborative" or digital economy: permanent establishment, creation of wealth and income that our citizens can derive from it. Mr. Le Maire's bill, Mr. de Courson, will also require the platforms to provide the revenue information that everyone could get from the rental of a car or apartment. As a result of this anti-tax evasion measure, these revenues will be reported. The fight against fraud, as a result of the discussion we had about the Cherki amendment, therefore implies that the transmission of this information, and therefore the reporting of this supplementary income, should be generalised, in the same way as the income from the rental of land or apartments outside the collaborative circuit. Secondly, if I cannot give you the position of a text that is not yet arbitrated, I am in my personal capacity in the opinion of the rapporteur-general and that of Mrs Rabault. I do not think we should accept a reduction, a franchise, a tax exemption on the grounds that there is a collaborative and digital economy. That's not the point. The subject is to allow equal treatment, for example between traditional hotels and apartment rental services via platforms such as Airbnb, which respond to other modes of consumption. This view may differ slightly from that of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, but I would not like to talk about it in his absence. We must both accept this competition, which is different – thus accepting the idea of equality in the face of taxes and wealth produced in the country, without seeking to manage stable establishments elsewhere and the problems of taxation or even of optimisation or fraud that arise – and abandon the principle that we should create a different status for those who derive income from it. Rather, the Government's intention is to make tax returns mandatory for every person who reports his or her taxes in our country, and to automate them, so that we can tax them, as we tax any rental or income from property – apartment, car or other. For my part, I am therefore not in favour of a particular status that would create a franchise. Although the text that Bruno Le Maire will present is not entirely arbitrated, we are working on this issue of so-called collaborative platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u244	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-15-O1099.u245	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2018 Finance Bill; Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022. The meeting is adjourned.
