ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mr Sylvain Waserman and several of his colleagues on associative involvement and recognition (point 344 rectified).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u2	In the general debate, Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u3	Mr President, the Minister for National Education, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of my speech is to explain why we, together with the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, considered it necessary to propose to you a draft resolution on the world of associations, and in particular on the role that our Assembly can and should play alongside it. Many of us here believe that citizen engagement, especially community engagement, can change the world just as much as those who sit on the benches of this assembly. Associations bring human added value; They are an expression of the freedom of everyone to act according to their convictions, to carry out joint reflections and actions for causes that one believes in. They bring together women and men of all ages and conditions, who give their time and energy for something other than their particular interest. We are very many on these benches to be attached to the associative world, for having militated there, for having seen the associations engage in the field, for having seen how they act concretely in our communes, how they make life more beautiful and give it meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u5	More than many other topics, this theme is federative, transparant. He's no one's monopoly. But the challenges facing the community world are real and we legislators have a role to play. We wish to illustrate this in four areas within the framework of this draft resolution. The first area is the legal protection of community leaders. The report issued in 2014 by the commission of inquiry to study the difficulties of the associative world revealed that the renewal of associative leaders is now one of the most important problems for the associative world; This would even be the first, 53% of associations indicating that they are as concerned about them as they are about their funding. The reports of France Bénévolat confirm this: if many volunteers engage in actions and projects, few are willing to assume the responsibilities of a president or treasurer, especially because of the legal risks involved. On this issue in particular, we must make progress. I have experienced this situation as co-chair of an association network with 150 employees and supervise 3,000 young people in civic service. We had to decide whether or not to take over an association in difficulty of our network, with its employees but above all with a liability of around 200000 euros. The lawyer warned me: in case of failure, I would be responsible for my own property. This story ended well, but it was thanks to the help of private foundations because our local community partners were not allowed to make grants to associations in difficulty. At this very moment, I felt strongly that it is not fair for a volunteer leader, who gives his time and energy, to see his own property and those of his family at risk in the event of a cessation of payment of his association. It is not fair that if an association is in default of payment because the grant from a community expected in June for the current year is not finally voted, the volunteer leader's own assets are seized to cover the liability. No association terminates its employees in January until the subsidy is paid in June. It is also not fair that a business head can limit his or her risk to his or her personal contribution and that an association volunteer leader does not have the opportunity to do so. And what is not right is for us to correct it. I refer those who have told me that, in such cases, judges knew how to show clemency to the official website online associations.gouv.fr. They will read that "in the matter of cessation of payment, the judge may sometimes be very strict" or that "the civil liability of association leaders must lead them to a great deal of caution" or that "there is no particular favor on the part of the courts, although its leaders may be volunteers".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u7	We therefore undoubtedly have to work, conduct hearings, study and act on this subject of the legal protection of association leaders. The second topic concerns the valuing of associative engagement. We still have much to do to ensure that awareness of commitment and its value is present throughout life. At school, when you learn to read, write, count and respect others, minister, it is also essential to understand why and how to engage. In the course of studies or at their end, voluntary involvement is an asset which must be better valued in the search for employment, in particular in the form of validation of the experience acquired, the VAE. During working life, in which corporate social responsibility plays an increasingly important role. In the life of a citizen too, because our democracy needs everyone's commitment. The third issue in this motion for a resolution is associative employment. The refocusing of aided contracts has shown how topical this subject is. I am not going to open the debate here, either on assisted employment or on the substantive measures decided by the Government, such as the wage tax tax credit or the reliefs provided for in the reform of the CICE, but we will have to carefully monitor the impact of these measures and offer a special perspective on voluntary employment. Fourth, and it is important: how can we understand associative action in full societal cost and not only in budgetary cost? I explain to myself: when young people on civic service act with isolated elderly people, re-integrate them into neighbourhood associations, give them a taste of life and accompany them, they prolong their stay at home by one or two years. The economy for society is well above the 400 euros of monthly compensation for these young people. When a non-profit association, such as the Blue Sky association,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u9	... develops with doctors soft gymnastics programs for women with breast cancer or people with cardiovascular disease, relapse rates decrease by 30%. Here, too, the cost of aid to such an association is inconvenient with the benefit that the company derives from it. Because we are convinced that a humanistic and advanced society knows and must reason in full societal cost, we propose to make progress in this area. In particular, working with the Court of Auditors, which our Assembly has the right to seize, would allow us to identify the public policies in which such an approach could be experimented: to reason in full societal cost, to imagine a true co-construction of the common good and these public policies with the community world, and thus to put into practice what many have imagined before us. In conclusion, I would say that the objective of this motion for a resolution is threefold. First of all, it is a question of showing our sincere and unwavering commitment to the world of associations and of demonstrating the recognition of the nation to all those who, in our country, volunteer on a daily basis. This resolution is certainly proposed by the MODEM Group, but it will only make sense if it is carried by the largest majority, beyond any partisan spirit. Secondly, it aims to assert forcefully that the National Assembly wants and must play its full and full role in accompaniment to the world of associations. The Government announced a concerted approach involving the Social and Solidarity Economy Council, which is expected to return the outcome of its work in January 2018, and the High Council to associative life with a view to developing a national strategy. The National Assembly must, through its commission, through the study group, through the commitment of all those and all of us who wish to devote their time to it, fully play its role in the development of this strategy alongside the world of associations. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several benches of the REM, LR, UAI and GDR groups]] Finally, this motion for a resolution wants to be a starting point: that of the commitment of our entire assembly, regardless of our political colour, to innovate and to accompany the involvement of associations in its daily activities, in the deepest respect of its freedom and its will to bring its stone to the building, with determination and conviction, to change the world. We count on your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u10	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the parliamentary initiative day of the MODEM and related groups, we are today considering a motion for a resolution aimed at promoting associative engagement. Excellent initiative of our MODEM colleagues! It is essential to value and promote those who choose to devote their time to the benefit of others and the community. Our society is all too often portrayed as a society of selfishness and individuality, composed of members who are on their own and indifferent to others, in an increasingly hard, colder world, where social networks have replaced human contacts and television with family moments; a society where one has never been so connected and yet never so alone, at a time when 700000 young people between the ages of 15 and 30 live in social isolation; a society of distrust, where couples form through dedicated applications, where children play on tablets, where animals are massacred by billions, where girls can be raped in public places without anyone helping them, where the elderly find themselves isolated, where the common good, solidarity, love, sensitivity, dedication and disinterestedness would have gone from fashion, where kindness would be weakness, charity an over-yearly value. We would have entered the era of postmodernity, in which the absolute primacy of the individual would lead to the sacrifice of all consciousness of a living-together and, more importantly, would prevent any attempt to think of a world in common. Fortunately, the world of associations is here to remind us every day that the picture I have just drawn for you is not an exclusive reality. Human warmth, relationships between people, self-help, self-giving still have their place in our hyper-disconnected society. People come up every day to revive the social bond, learn how to read to children, help families in difficulty, offer food to the homeless, fight against animal abuse, promote culture, art, music, languages, games and sports, live a tradition or memory, celebrate holidays, animate villages, provide well-being, joy, friendship to others, allow them to develop passion, practice sport, care, organize events, open the world, reduce distances. They help people reconnect and develop their skills, listen to them, help them, in short, make them live.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u13	There are 16 million volunteers in France, including 12 million in a million associations, to carry out all these small miracles for free; 16 million to give their time, leisure and energy without waiting for anything but a smile and a little gratitude, without waiting for anything other than to see stars in the eyes of the children. They are all different from each other, these associations, from the small club to the big federation, but they all play a major role in maintaining social cohesion and in transmitting the values of sharing, fraternity and tolerance. In the face of the decline in public power and the disruption of public services, they cover social needs that are not taken into account and often carry out tasks of general interest which the State can no longer carry out on its own. They are also a significant economic force, accounting for about 8% of private employment and are involved in the implementation of many public policies. They also play an important role in the fight against unemployment and the battle for employment, facilitating the reintegration of people who are often long-term away from the labour market. The IUD, Action and Independents Group is convinced of the fundamental importance of associative engagement, which is one of the pillars of our democratic and social pact. Our group therefore welcomes this motion for a resolution, which opens the way for real reflection on how to help associations overcome the many difficulties they face on a daily basis. These difficulties are primarily financial, because an association needs funds to operate. Municipal subsidies are not meant to increase, for the reasons you know. The gradual reduction of the overall operating allocation – DGF – to the municipalities, which will continue, suffocates our towns and villages, which still have to face the amputation of the housing tax and the decrease in the number of contracts assisted. The natural and voluntary partnership between the associations and their communes is weakened, and the former can no longer rely solely on the latter to survive. Associations are directly affected by the abolition of assisted contracts, which they use for essential functions. For example, in a sports club, the coach, which forms the basis of the entire club's activity, is often under assisted contract. I can also take the example of an association in my constituency, which organises several times a week – but perhaps I should speak in the past – fun and cultural activities for people with disabilities and which, for losing its helped contract, will have to reduce its activity by a lot, o how laudable, however. Similarly, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve represented a significant loss of funding for associations, particularly in rural areas where it was sometimes the only source of funding. It allowed associations to carry out concrete projects – organizing festivities, acquiring scores, replacing balloons or old outfits – which may seem derisory at the national, governmental, but which had a primary importance and a very clear impact on the daily lives of volunteers, members, beneficiaries and families. Buying a used computer to be able to computerize the archives and do the steps online, organizing a football tournament to animate children's Sundays, preparing pies to taste it from the elderly is not much, but that's all for these small associations and small communes. We deplore the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, as it was able to respond, as closely as possible to the territories, to their specific concerns. The Government indicates that small associations will receive, according to certain criteria, €25 million in compensation for the loss of the parliamentary reserve through the Fund for the Development of Associative Life. We thank him for this, even though the parliamentary reserve amounted to EUR 45 million, accessible to each association and without criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u15	Associations also suffer from the cumbersome administration, which discourages many simple projects, through endless steps and procedures. It is sometimes forgotten that volunteers from small associations do not have specific training in administrative management or accounting. In life, they do all kinds of trades and have very different levels of education and skills. This is a difficult reality to understand on the Parisian benches, but some association leaders are not able to complete grant files or other documents from the same register.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u17	To love people is also to see them as they are, with love and benevolence, and to see their immense qualities and undeniable skills, even if they are not always administrative. The time of these administrative procedures does not always correspond to the operational reality of the life of an association. The delays between the grant application and the actual payment are sometimes very long, which can cause problems for associations that do not always have a large cash flow, and thus a capacity to advance the amounts awarded. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI, MODEM and REM groups]] The UDI, Action and Independent Group endorses this motion for a resolution and, more generally, it is extremely keen to take part in any reflection on how to facilitate the functioning of our associations and to open up the scope of their possibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u19	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, associative life in our country is based on the daily or more ad hoc commitment of 16 million volunteers in just over a million associations. We owe it to the law of 1 July 1901 on the contract of association, one of the main founding laws of the Republic, which is more current than ever, since it is created every day in France, in 2017, 200 new associations. Associative engagement is a considerable asset, but it is also a specificity that we are envied throughout Europe. And, contrary to the ideas received, this dynamic of engagement has not been denied in recent years, as the number of volunteers has increased by 17% between 2010 and 2016, and this increase has reached 35% among young people under 35 years of age. The civic service, which sees its budgetary resources strengthened in 2018, is for many. Associative life is a jewel that must be maintained. This wealth, we must preserve and strengthen it, because it is fragile. While the vast majority of these associations – 85% of them – rely on the action of their volunteers alone, which is equivalent to 680,000 full-time equivalents, the voluntary sector is also very dynamic in terms of creating permanent and non-relocable jobs, with nearly 2 million employees. Half of these employers' associations have one or two employees. Today, we must note that trust is damaged, especially with these medium-sized associations, whose activity is certainly based on a strong core of volunteers, but also, often, on aided contracts – each one of us can see it in its territory. The sustainability of the activities of these sports, cultural, solidarity or social centres is threatened by the brutal decision of the Government, taken without consultation and without alternative solutions, to reduce the number of contracts assisted from 460000 in 2016 to 200000 in 2018 and to simultaneously reduce the rate of financial support of the State from 75 % to 50 % on average. We know, however, that, even if they are not the panacea, these aided contracts are essential to the functioning of certain associations, which do not have the financial means to recruit traditional jobs, which are too expensive. Everyone also knows that these assisted contracts, contrary to what we have heard in recent months, are socially useful. I am thinking in particular of the jobs of the future, which will be eliminated. Each of us has in his constituency a sports club that has recruited jobs for the future, which has trained young people for three or four years, providing them with truly skilled training. After completing their certificate or state diploma, they became sports educators and saw their jobs lasting – unlike, again, what is sometimes said – in the same club or in another, or in the field of sports trades, which is particularly dynamic. We also know that in the coming weeks or months we will be witnessing structural closures – this movement has already begun – and reductions in activity or winging in certain associations, implying a decline in services to the population and the inhabitants of our territories. We will pay particular attention, Minister, to the fact that the aided contracts that will be abolished in associative life will not be replaced by civic service missions, because these public service missions that provide public services are not equivalent to wage earners. I was recently in a Pôle Emploi agency, which offers both assisted contracts and civic service missions, and I was able to see that the border between the two is sometimes tenuous and blurred. I am thinking, for example, of the "Duties done" scheme, for which it will be necessary to ensure that there is not too much confusion or substitution between the missions of general interest of civic service volunteers and traditional jobs. Mr Sylvain Waserman's motion for a resolution identifies the right levers for action to better support associative life and to recognize voluntary commitment. The resolution acknowledges, and I thank its author, that important work has been done for five years now, with the support of the former parliamentary majority. This is a job that needs to be continued. You refer to the logic of co-construction of public policies with the associative world, which is indeed fundamental. Civic service is a good example of successful co-construction of public policy in favour of youth engagement and in support of associative life, since 80 per cent of these civic service volunteers are now in associative structures. The charter of mutual commitments between the State and the voluntary sector, signed in 2001, was renewed in 2014 and extended to local and regional authorities, other essential partners of the associations. It is now necessary to make this charter live up to mutual commitments in all our territories. In particular, it encourages the development of multi-annual contracts for objectives – CPO – which allow for contractualisation with associations. In this regard, I agree with you, Mr. Waserman: the National Assembly has an important role to play in supporting the implementation of this charter on the ground. Simplification, which you have mentioned, is a fundamental element for associative life. As I mentioned earlier, the number of volunteers is increasing, and the main problem is, as we all know, the volunteers responsible and those who participate in the offices of the associations, on whose shoulders all the workload and all the responsibilities, in particular the legal responsibilities inherent in their duties, rest. We have begun to make progress, perhaps too slowly, on simplification. The single grant dossier is now a reality, and I hope that this mechanism will now be deployed throughout the country. The dematerialization of administrative procedures and the principle of "tell us once" represent a very important saving of time for associations. Thanks to last year's vote on an amendment to the bill to modernize our health care system, which I defended with Valérie Fourneyron in particular, the medical certificate of non-contraindication to sports practice is now valid for three years, even though it had to be renewed every year. This is a very important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u22	This measure, which has been in place since this summer, considerably simplifies things for volunteers, for whom it represented a workload, but also for families, for whom it constituted a constraint. With regard to the recognition of associative involvement and voluntary work, I am thinking of associative employment leave, which now allows all employees to benefit from six days' leave per year, possibly paid if there is a company agreement to this effect. I am also thinking of the citizen engagement account, which opens up twenty-hour training rights for people who devote 200 hours to an association, and the validation of experience, which also allows for better recognition. Financial and legal security, which you have also mentioned, is fundamental. The Social and Solidarity Economy Act, known as the Hamon Act, has enabled the definition of the subsidy to be defined, but also to include in the law the local support scheme, which enables 40,000 associations to accompany them in their projects in our territories. This is a positive step forward. However, more needs to be done, particularly in financial terms. In 2012, we voted to reduce the wage tax for associations, up to € 20000, and then the wage tax tax credit, the CITS. Its rate of 4% is not yet fully equivalent to the rate of 6% enjoyed by companies under the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment. There will of course have to be a convergence of these two financial support schemes. I will not have time to elaborate on my point concerning the educational axis, which is of particular interest to me and to you, Minister. We have already had the opportunity to talk about citizen engagement from an early age. You'll have to stick to the citizen's booklet, so that we can give it to the third, sixteen-year-olds. In any case, you identify the right levers for action, colleagues of the Democratic and Related Movement. I just regret...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u23	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u24	...that a large majority of you voted a few weeks ago to abolish a large number of assisted contracts. So we cannot fully endorse your motion for a resolution, even if we do not vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u25	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the motion for a resolution by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement on community involvement and its recognition. Of course, we can only share the will shown by our colleagues to recognize the millions of hours, if not more, given voluntarily by 16 million of our fellow citizens. Similarly, we can only salute the creativity, the spirit of initiative and the sense of the collective of the French and French who were able to seize this right conferred by the 1901 law. It is a freedom that offers the possibility for everyone to come together freely to reflect and exchange, educate and cultivate, alert and mobilize, support and propose, all with a very different purpose than those pursued by companies, i.e. not for profit. However, the associative world produces value through its 1.8 million employees, employed by more than 160,000 associations: 85 billion euros per year, or 3% of French GDP. Colleagues in the Democratic Movement Group and related parties, you propose a number of ways to better recognise and encourage associative engagement. All right, but let's take a closer look at these axes. First, you want to put in place a logic of co-construction of certain public policies with associations. This is a very good idea and, fortunately, we did not wait for you to do so. Our positions, our fora, our amendments, our legislative proposals are all, on each subject, the result of consultations with the associations concerned, because we have always believed that it is the associations of citizens that must be listened to, not the lobbys. On many occasions, you yourself have had the opportunity, on serious issues, to "co-build public policies with associations" – I quote. However, let me refresh your memory. On the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism, have you taken into account the opinions of civil liberties associations such as the League for Human Rights, Amnesty International, the Cimade or Human Rights Watch, which alerted you to the threats posed by this bill to our fundamental freedoms? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u27	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u28	On the oil bill, then, have you heard the doubts of environmental associations such as Friends of the Earth, 350.org or the Collectif du Pays Fertois...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u30	... as to the actual effectiveness of this text in the fight against global warming? I don't think so either. Finally, with regard to tax evasion, what do you do with the reports, studies and proposals of Oxfam, ATTAC, Transparency International, Anticor or CCFD-Terre Solidaire, which would allow the State to recover a shortfall equivalent to the budget of the Ministry of National Education? What have you done with all this, yet priceless, work to co-build your public policies? By voting on the texts I just mentioned, you swept it away with a back of your hand. Sometimes you may, I agree, take into account the views of certain associations, in particular in determining your employment or tax policies. I am thinking in this case of this movement which could be described as an association of defence of interests and which I no longer need to name in these places, as well represented there. Colleagues, it is already possible to build with associations. You do it, by the way, but with a variable geometry. Among the axes you mention, I have focused on your proposal to secure the associations financially.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u31	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u32	Coming from you, this proposal is really crazy: have you not decided, according to the majority, to reduce the allocations to the communities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u34	... resulting, through a run-off effect, in a reduction in subsidies to cultural or sports associations? It is true that this decision promotes the volunteerism that you call of your wishes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u35	This speech is dramatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u36	... volunteering that sometimes leads to new situations like that of the village of Flacourt. In this commune of the ninth constituency of the Yvelines, represented on these benches by an elected Democratic Movement, the mayor had to ask the inhabitants to maintain the green spaces, for lack of money. Unbelievable! Long live volunteering! Finally, a third of your priorities concerns the professionalisation of associative action. This would be, according to the explanatory memorandum of your resolution, "to enable the community to develop human resources, where necessary, at costs commensurate with the financial capacity at its disposal". I don't know what to say or what to think about reading these words. Aren't you again responsible for a huge invisible social plan, with the removal of 110,000 contracts helped in 2018?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u37	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u38	Apart from the terrible human and social consequences for those who learned, overnight, the end of their contract, dozens of associations now have no choice but to put an end to their civic activities. That's the picture. There are as many associations as there are themes. I would like to focus on those who carry out crucial tasks in terms of social ties and mutual assistance, those of interest to you in terms of social value. For example, in the Lilas, in my constituency, the Restos du coeur began their thirty-third campaign last week. However, volunteers face a 33% increase in the number of beneficiaries – the newcomers being mostly students and retirees – in a space that no longer allows them to welcome everyone. Donations are also declining, as are the number of donors, as most can no longer afford solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u39	You don't have any proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u40	Referring to this type of association, I would like to warn our fellow citizens of this unannounced praise of civil society, whose merits are undeniable. Because if we're at the side of these millions of volunteers, we're not fools. There is a fundamental trend: more and more associations are actually subcontractors of public service missions, left in disinherence by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u42	I cannot help but think about the concept of the Big Society, defended a few years ago by David Cameron, who had at least the merit of frankness. On 19 July 2010, he outlined the principles of his reform: "Citizens must no longer systematically turn to politicians, local authorities or the Government to solve their problems, but rather to feel free and able to cope on their own". Indeed, when politics is defeated, when the state disintegrates, there remains this solution of candlesticks: let people manage, voluntarily preferably.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u43	It's not freedom, it's liberalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u44	In the words of the archbishop of Canterbury, who is very aware of charity, the praise of the act of association is too often reduced to "a verbiage intended to hide a profoundly damaging withdrawal of the state from its responsibilities towards the most vulnerable". The associations that I have been able to meet say this in their own way: if the assistance missions they undertake are indispensable for solidarity and social ties, they expect firm and precise commitments from the public authorities. In Clermont-Ferrand, the Education Without Borders Network has been fighting for months to accompany migrants, providing them, in emergency aid, with blankets, food and comfort. Yet, despite this incessant "mobilization of energies", as you say, one fact is that it is up to the state and the communities to take charge of the reception of migrants. They eventually occupied a faculty to alert the prefect about a humanly intolerable situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u45	In fact, you want to remove the associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u46	Allow me a digression: our national solidarity cannot be confused with private charity, and social justice is not limited to the generous impulses of a lady bossess. While associative initiatives help to awaken the sense of responsibility and mutual assistance of our fellow citizens, they are powerless in the face of deadly national logics that go beyond them. Again this winter, hundreds of people will die on the street, deprived of this basic right: to have a roof. A number of associations are fighting to provide practical assistance to these people. They mitigate their misfortunes, but they will not be able, alone, to overcome misery. The Fondation Abbé-Pierre has been leading a tireless fight for the right to housing for several years, but the enforceable right, rightly enshrined in the law for ten years, has not been applied; Here's his flaw.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u47	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u48	It is not a question of opposing citizen action and legislative work: one necessarily feeds on the other, provided that the expertise of the associations is translated into law, and that the laws encourage and protect initiatives taken on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the contradictions that I have mentioned between your legislative decisions and this resolution, we ask ourselves, in France which is inconclusive, whether this is ultimately a way to clear you from the consequences of the decisions that you have taken here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u49	You're against the associative world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u50	It's a resolution of good conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u51	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u52	It's a positive resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u53	Your speech is pathetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u54	It's too bad...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u55	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u56	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all let me welcome Mrs Rubin's speech, which has placed the debate in a sometimes delicate framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u57	A severe observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] For my part, I believe that this motion for a resolution on community involvement and its recognition is a text that can be described as common sense, even if it has some shortcomings. Anyone who has exercised responsibilities at the local level knows the importance of the associative world, in all its diversity. We live in a society that unfortunately atomizes, and in which people find it increasingly difficult to meet and build together. If, in many territories, rural or urban, a sense of abandonment dominates and can even translate a reality, the associative fabric appears as the guarantor of social cohesion and sometimes the last bulwark in the face of the infringement of any solidarity between people. In the face of the more disastrous daily consequences of the invisible hand of the market, it is necessary to protect the visible ties forged by the action of the millions of volunteers in our country. The associative fabric is also, as you pointed out, an economic reality. Even though we are all familiar here with the figures on associative life in our country, they should be remembered, and in the first place the number of volunteers: there are 13 million who run 1.3 million associations. The number of associations has increased every year for the past four years; Although many quickly put an end to their activities, the net increase is about 4% per year. The associations are important employers: 1.8 million people are employees of an association, representing almost 10% of the employees in the private sector, for a wage bill of 39 billion euros, an increase of 0.7% between 2015 and 2016. Finally, the activity generated by associations amounts to €70 billion, or 3.5% of GDP. The vitality of associations is therefore an economic as well as a social issue. However, the associative model, despite its apparent dynamism, has been in danger for several years. Although he may adapt, be imaginative, innovative, forced to reinvent himself in order to absorb ever stronger budgetary constraints, he will not be able to live without the unwavering support of the public authorities. This motion for a resolution sets out an honest record of the situation and identifies some of the reforms needed to secure the world of associations and, in a second stage, to encourage the development of associations and to encourage voluntary engagement. We fully agree with the idea of a financial security shock, which would result in a recast of the way in which subsidies are paid. In fact, the over-systematic use of call-for-project financing seriously weakens structures, especially those of medium size. This deprives them of visibility in the management of their treasury and creates constant competition between them. It is therefore imperative to restore their full place to multi-annual grants. This motion for a resolution also stresses the need to train community leaders, faced with an increasingly complex normative and financial environment. There is a need to consolidate training arrangements and, as has been pointed out, to ensure the effective recognition and valorisation of the experience gained as an associative leader. It is also important to ensure, Minister, the training of volunteers whose child-related missions involve taking on a very special responsibility – I am thinking in particular of extracurricular activities. Despite our support for this motion for a resolution, which is clearly in the right direction, I must stress the paradox between this goodwill and actions. As some of my colleagues have pointed out, the first months of the Government and its majority have not been such as to reassure the world of associations, that is to say the least. The MODEM group, therefore the majority, shares with us its commitment, which we can legitimately think sincere, to the world of associations. But then, why did you support the brutal end of tens of thousands of aided contracts, without consultation with the associations and without any compensation? It is simply necessary to recall the basic rules of public decision-making: to assess upstream the impact of a measure and, at the same time, to seek to compensate for the difficulties it causes. In addition, the majority voted without browsing the budget of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. If we put aside the 7% reduction in the budget for sport and the drastic fall in the budget of the National Centre for the Development of Sport – CNDS – which will be mechanically reflected in sports associations, the budget lines specific to associative life are in decline, in particular the actions for youth and popular education, which decrease by almost 2 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u60	In addition, appropriations for the development of association life fell by about EUR 1.5 million, while the Government only made late and partially offset the end of funding to associations under the parliamentary reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u61	You didn't have to vote for the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u62	If you are genuinely committed to the well-being of associations, what we think, why not oppose all these measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u63	There! That's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u64	The Government may have a first opportunity to make up for this by opening a constructive debate on the occasion of the mission entrusted to Mr. Jean-Louis Borloo. We have no doubt that trans-party exchanges and proposals in this area can lead to decisions re-establishing the means and capacities of the voluntary world, first and foremost in the most forgotten territories of the Republic. But now we can start work in this direction. The GDR Group will contribute all its energy to this. We can now rely on a number of works, in particular those of the commission of inquiry led by Alain Bocquet and Françoise Dumas, whose excellent report, Les associations dans la crise: la réinvention d'un modèle, shows a comprehensive observation of the difficulties faced by associations. This high-quality work should serve as a basis for going further than mere declarations of intent. I will mention only a few of the proposals. A first step towards the promotion of associative engagement would be to consolidate the commitment leave and the leave dedicated to associative leaders, by increasing their duration from six to twelve days according to the branch agreements, while increasing the number of beneficiaries per undertaking. At the same time, it is necessary to communicate more effectively to companies and employees about the sponsorship of skills, which enables companies to make available an association of employees. It is also imperative to review the taxation of associations, in particular by raising the threshold above which the association is subject to commercial taxes. It is also necessary to facilitate the life of associations, in particular the management of their treasury, for example by generalising the payment of part of public subsidies as early as possible in the year, in order to give financial visibility to the structures. I will conclude by recalling some principles. Associations are not intended to become a market instrument. However, there has been a shift in associations in an increasingly competitive field, as they compete with the lucrative private sector as well as with other associations for funding. We have to put an end to it. Associations are not actors like others and should not replace the market sector. Nothing would be more disastrous. Moreover, measuring the importance of associations only through their economic usefulness would be devastating, as it would be accompanied by a loss of their own values. Associations cannot be summed up in terms of the benefits they provide. They carry values, which are generally those of solidarity, the transmission of knowledge and emancipation. The crisis of the world of associations is also a crisis of identity, between the search for performance, especially economic, and its primary mission, which is to weave the social bond. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Despite these important reservations, the GDR Group will vote for this text, because it is part of putting at the heart of the debate this major reality of the world of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u65	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u66	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have met this morning to discuss the motion for a resolution on community involvement and its recognition, tabled by our colleagues in the MODEM Group. I welcome this initiative, which I support, and thank the authors for it, as it gives me the opportunity to speak on the subject, which is of particular interest to me, of citizen engagement. We are gathered this morning above all to salute the commitment to associative life. It is fundamental in our country, which has the chance to have more than 1.3 million associations, 16 million volunteers, but also 2 million employees. In my city, Nîmes, more than 2000 associations are essential in everyday life for maintaining the social bond, for stimulating local life, but they are also a considerable economic vector, thanks to all the public service tasks entrusted to them by the local authorities and the State. Associative engagement was declared, during the previous legislature, Grand Cause nationale in 2014, a pivotal year for the recognition of associations. Under this label, many charters of mutual commitments have been signed with the local authorities, and the law on the social and solidarity economy has been adopted. That same year, a number of parliamentary reports addressed the issue, and I myself had the honour of being rapporteur of a committee of inquiry to study the difficulties of the voluntary sector in the period of crisis. Concrete proposals were needed for the community to make commitment accessible to all and to put the individual in a position of judgment, initiative and action. For almost six months, we had received dozens of personalities representing the world of associations – leaders, experts, researchers, elected officials. We had made fifty-five recommendations for a better recognition of associative engagement, including the relaxation of associative pre-majority; commitment leave for assets and volunteer leaders; validation of the achievements of associative experience; the citizen engagement account. We need to continue this work, Mr. Minister, because the vitality of the associations is such that it is often believed that their functioning, by nature detached from the economic logics of the lucrative sector, their adaptability, their flexibility of management and their disinterested convictions preserve them from the surprises of the crisis. That is not the case, and we must make sure more than ever that we do not destabilize them. Already, we were convinced that the commitment of young people, their early investment as volunteers, members or leaders, was the best way to enshrine them in an assertive and inclusive citizenship, to ensure the future of associative vitality, but also to embody collective intelligence. Young people should continue to be encouraged to engage in associations from primary school and throughout their academic and academic careers, to continue to take charge of civic service, to increase the visibility of the community in educational institutions, and to incorporate an awareness-raising module into the training of civil servants. A number of these proposals have been found to apply, while others still need to be implemented. It is more than ever our duty to continue this work. As we all know, associations are a concrete and dynamic expression of our republican pact. They are, on the front line, the vigils of the changing needs of our citizens. We must ensure that we do not destabilize them with precarious financing. They should be better recognized by all forms of contracting and, conversely, evaluation. We must also secure their operating budgets, continue to reflect on multi-annual contracts for objectives with local and regional authorities and the State, but also on corporate sponsorship. I welcome the recent announcements by the President of the Republic on the city's policy and on national mobilization, which are essential in order to give the inhabitants their pride and make possible social and geographical mobility, in other words reintegration and, beyond that, accession to our republican pact. It will also involve associations. I am also thinking, and above all, as Vice-President of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, of the ongoing reflections on the universal national service. Today, the National Guard is one of the most concrete evidence that citizen engagement is a solid value in our society. Created just a year ago, in response to the attacks of November 2015 and July 2016, it already had 65700 volunteers at the beginning of 2017. Today, it is the strength of 700,000 reservists whose average age, around twenty-five years, proves that the individualism of which our youth is often accused is not appropriate. If the need for commitment is real in our society, it is also a vehicle for social and professional integration. It is therefore our responsibility as parliamentarians to respond to this desire for commitment expressed by our fellow citizens with means commensurate with their expectations. We can no longer disappoint them, because it is on this basis that our society will be able to rebuild its cohesion and, ultimately, its future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u68	Please conclude, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] While public policies make freedom and equality their foundation, there is every reason to believe that the associative world, in its diversity, assures each of us the effectiveness of the third pillar of the Republic, which is and remains fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u70	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u71	While at the end of November and the beginning of December is a holiday announcement period for the majority of us – everyone is thinking about Christmas gifts or tree or garden decorations – it is above all a moment of distress for the most fragile, for those who do not have a roof or who work hard without it being enough to close the end of the month. Last weekend, most of you probably ran into orange vests when you went shopping. These weren't the MODEM orange vests.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u72	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u73	It was volunteers from all food banks who wore these vests, in order to be noticed, to raise awareness and to encourage the French to be supportive of those in need.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u74	We were with them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u75	This great collection has brought to light the work of voluntary associations, all these people who take on their time, spend their energy and use their skills in the service of a cause, in the service of the general interest. The associative fabric is not limited to the assistance of the poorest, it is present everywhere in the daily life of the French: it is a group of students who organize an aid to schooling in a college, a sports club of a rural commune that gathers every week different generations around a common value, a play or an exhibition that promotes exchanges, or a fund-raising to help populations after a natural disaster. To be an employee or a volunteer of an association is to do concrete things. You must have done so to know what you're talking about, to know what it is to be a volunteer in the service of others or to be president of an association. France, this has already been stressed, has 1.3 million associations and more than 13 million volunteers, who act every day to help others, reinvigorate territories and carry out innovative projects. In times of economic morosity and identity and individual decline, some people make the choice to give. These volunteers donate their time and ideas, but their commitment is currently not recognized to its full value. Yet they are essential in some neglected territories: they are at the heart of the social bond in sensitive neighbourhoods or villages threatened with desertification; they provide community services where businesses no longer go; they replace public services and public authorities in the event of default. We recall here when we examine each text on the subject, the world of associations is going through a double crisis: a financial crisis, first, a crisis of volunteerism, then. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, more than elsewhere, money remains the nerve of war for all these associations, which are chronically lacking resources. It is the model of the non-profit organization that wants this. However, in recent times, some of the measures decided here have a lasting impact on the finances of these organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u77	I am thinking of the abolition of the parliamentary reserve that you, members of the majority, imposed on us when it allowed to help associations to set up structural projects to the tune of EUR 45 million. It was not the only source of funding or even sufficient to sustain the beneficiary associations, but it was beneficial to the smaller ones. The allocation of €25 million to the Associative Life Development Fund is far from compensating for this loss. We've done all the calculations again, but we're a long way from the point of view. Simply put, the credits available to small structures were divided by two. The wage tax credit has been transformed, in the Social Security Financing Bill for 2018, into a reduction in contributions for non-profit organizations that have employees. This is obviously a salutary aid. However, by definition, this financial support does not affect small associations, which cannot have employees. It is therefore, once again, a measure which helps to strengthen the territorial divide to the detriment of rural territories and of what some call "peripheral France". As far as the vocation crisis is concerned, I said, if volunteerism remains strong, it stagnates over the years and is very unequal between small and large associations. This lack of human resources is the most modest among them, including associations that used assisted contracts. Today, they do not yet know how to continue. In order to cope with this lack of staff, I propose to create an associative employment contract, in order to allow associations to continue to hire wherever they compensate for the absence of the state. It is also by seeing their work easier that associations can more easily recruit employees as volunteers. You propose the professionalisation of associative action, i.e. an improvement of working conditions, through better sharing of good practices and by providing the associations with tools to better organize their activity. Why not? However, this is not enough, as the commitment has evolved in recent years. It is more diffuse, à la carte and more marked by ad hoc help. Those who become involved in everyday life, as was the case before, are becoming increasingly rare. The reflection to which you are inviting Parliament and civil society must therefore focus on the meaning of community involvement and on all that it can bring in terms of personal enrichment to those who devote themselves to these activities. This reflection must also aim at making the lives of those who want to have a citizen's and solidarity's commitment to the public in difficulty, for example, for the employees, by adjusting their working time. Having more flexibility in his day by negotiating time with his employer means having all the cards in hand to reconcile volunteer engagement with work life. It is our role as elected representatives of the Republic to think about the solutions that will enable us to stop the crisis of volunteerism. Anyone who wants to help or provide concrete activity for others should know how to engage. We still have a lot of work to do to improve information, encourage commitment and ensure that everyone can get involved in a cause from an early age. Consideration can already be given to better integrating volunteerism into compulsory school curricula, raising awareness of all options, or better presenting the realities of associations. Although volunteerism, by its nature, does not expect any compensation, it is time to recognize and reward this field work. Last year, my first proposal for a law was to create a statute for voluntary associations, which does not yet exist in France, in order to allow recognition of the work done in the service of others and society. While experience in the voluntary sector can, it is true, already be valued by a certificate or a VAE, this solution is not necessarily relevant for all volunteers. Moreover, this recognition remains insufficient in relation to the efforts made. That's why I proposed to validate retirement quarters after several years of engagement with an association. This summer, I asked the Bureau of the National Assembly to set up a study group, which did not previously exist, in order to deepen these avenues to help the development of the associative fabric. The only clear, concrete and precise measure in your motion for a resolution is the strengthening of the role of associations in the co-construction of certain public policies. It is clear that we need to hear the voice of associations in the implementation of these policies in many areas. We can only legislate properly from the work that is being done on the ground. Another avenue addressed by your text is the launch of a joint consultation of parliamentarians and civil society to reflect on the place of the voluntary sector in French society. Why not? However, your text will remain incantatory without the political will of the Government, which, hopefully, will be able to pay attention to the impact of the work we are beginning today. A more urgent initiative, which you miss to address here, is the evaluation of the most recent changes in volunteerism. Whether it is the creation of the civic reserve, the citizen engagement account and the leave of appointment or the easing of access to civic service, the innovations in this area have not failed. There is nothing about this in your motion for a resolution. How was the implementation of these innovations received by targeted audiences? Have we found a way to fight the vocation crisis? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This motion for a resolution seems to be based on a good feeling and lays the foundation for work. However, it remains insufficient without inventing anything. The Republican Group cannot oppose a text which has good intentions but which, basically, does not contain much or almost anything, and ends up leaving a taste for incompleteness. However, the actors of the community world are the artisans of living together and deserve, as such, the mobilization of each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u78	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Abbé Pierre, Giselle de Failly, Coluche, Armand Marquiset, Daniel Defert, Anne-Laure Pelletier, Ayesha Imam, Jean-Baptiste Richardier, Gaëlle Lahoreau, Claude Simonnot, Sylvie Güler, André-Marie Talvas, Anne Cassegrain, Henri Barbusse: I stop there because the list is endless. These men and women, recognized, known or unknown, have one thing in common: to have expressed their will to act. These women and men have fought or are fighting for major national causes or participate in social cohesion, anonymously, on their territory Associative life is conceived as a continuum. From those who created to those who took over the torch, whatever the place or area of action, all were carried by these three values: freedom, commitment and collective action. Associations are often the first relays of citizens on the ground and in all fields: social, health, environment, sport or culture. Today, one in five volunteers, representing 13 million people. Every day, almost 200 associations are created, and every year more than 700,000. Today is the first step. This proposal for a resolution by the MODEM and related groups on associative engagement and its recognition, to which I can only subscribe, engages us in research and debate and confirms our unwavering commitment to profoundly transform this sector through six key axes. Although Françoise Dumas and Yves Blein's reports have made it possible to bring about changes, much remains to be done. The abolition of the parliamentary reserve and the reduction of aided contracts raise fears within the voluntary sector. Associations need financial support to operate, volunteers to act, skills to develop and simplified tools to strengthen themselves. Édouard Philippe showed his confidence and commitment to the community, launching a plan for associative life on November 9. This plan aims to support associations in a more effective and sustainable way, always with the same method, that of consultation. In a fiscal context that we know is difficult, appropriations for the voluntary sector were increased to €67.6 million in 2018, an increase of almost 10% compared to 2017. Mr Minister, you have compensated the abolition of the parliamentary reserve with the allocation of EUR 25 million to the Development Fund for Associative Life, to support small associations which, despite their size, provide essential work throughout the country. We will be careful to ensure that these funds are distributed in a transparent, equitable, balanced manner and directed towards the most vulnerable. Volunteers are the essential resources of the associations: whether they are leaders or on the ground, they are the very essence of the action and the quality of it. Volunteerism must be supported, strengthened and valued by the right to training, the EAW and the citizen engagement account. Credit for civic service will rise by 16 per cent next year, representing 150,000 funded civic services. Associative employment is a real challenge for the sustainability of certain associations. It accounts for 10 per cent of jobs in the private sector. The Government will maintain 200,000 assisted contracts. In addition, the wage tax credit will allow the 170,000 associations to earn around EUR 500 million. In 2019, this scheme will be transformed into a reduction in employers' costs, which will save them 1.4 billion euros. The reforms in vocational training and apprenticeship will also benefit them. These measures are a real sign of recognition for associations, but more needs to be done. Thus, this motion for a resolution on community involvement and its recognition invites us to work in depth. It is in line with a working group already set up by the Republic and the ongoing inter-ministerial consultation, which will culminate in March 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This motion for a resolution also ensures that we give back to associations what they bring to us, individually and collectively. They are the vitality of our territories and participate in their attractiveness. It is because we believe in citizen engagement and because we care about democracy that we approve of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u80	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u81	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM Group has decided to include on the agenda of its parliamentary niche the discussion of a motion for a resolution on community involvement and its recognition. That has been said and I confirm that the world of associations is essential to our country, just by the number of associations: France has more than 1.3 million, for more than 13 million volunteers. Thus, more than one Frenchman in five participates in associative life. The phenomenon is massive. Associations have been a constituent and structuring element of our Republic for more than a century. I myself, for many years, became involved in the associative world; That's why I care about this subject. I have thus been able to see as closely as possible the passion with which these women and men give their time to help others, to educate our youth or simply to occupy it, to invest in local life and perhaps political life, to defend our environment or our heritage. They often give themselves body and soul to make the lives of others easier. This philanthropy, which is at the heart of volunteer action, does not remove the fact that they need recognition. That is the purpose of this motion for a resolution. As a result, community leaders, interviewed in the fifteenth edition of the annual publication La France associative en mouvement, are 40 per cent of those who feel that their situation is difficult or very difficult, while 55 per cent are concerned about the situation of volunteerism. The crisis of volunteerism, individualism, consumerism, scarcity of financial resources: the voluntary sector suffers and the difficulties multiply. In 2017 and 2018, it is located at a crossroads. The associative world has a very direct, palpable value. In 2016, it employed nearly 2 million employees, or just under 10% of private sector employees, for a wage bill of almost 39 billion euros. The association's combined budget represents 3.2% of GDP, or €85 billion. However, the world of associations is now plunged into a deep crisis. In addition to a volunteer crisis that I have already mentioned, associations are going through a financial crisis. Since about 50 per cent of their financial resources are of public origin, they are now suffering from the decline in allocations to local authorities, which has an impact on their resources. This financial crisis has been compounded by the recent decisions of the Government and the majority – that has already been said, but I would like to recall. I am thinking first of all of the quasi-deletion of assisted jobs, used by many associations. Although the Government has asked the prefects to continue to allow associations to benefit from these assisted contracts, we know very well that there will never be enough available. The Government had not only drastically reduced the number of contracts assisted, but had also reduced the rate of taking over such contracts, obliging associations to review their operations and endangering their financial balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u83	Moreover, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve will have a significant impact. It's a reality. It is €45 million that disappears directly to associations, especially small associations and rural associations. Faced with the insistence of parliamentarians, a fund for the development of associative life has been set up, but it will only have 25 million euros, of which we do not yet know how they will be used and allocated. Another difficulty, not least, is the ever-increasing administrative complexity that associations face. For example, for a grant application, it is not uncommon for them to complete files of about 20 pages or worse. Many of them are discouraged by this galloping, invading, penalizing, handicaping bureaucracy, which is holding them back.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u85	The voluntary world needs recognition and support from national representation. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because I do not see myself opposing it. However, it is not up to the challenge for associations and is absolutely not the answer to the crises they face. Associations are wary of advertising effects. They need recognition, but it is a subject of the past: we are now far beyond this problem. I am convinced that an association is a social entrepreneur, an entrepreneur, even though its activity is philanthropic, its object deeply of general interest and that no profit is pursued. Every association, regardless of its social purpose, has an economic model that relates to its work, which aims at its sustainability and involves budgetary constraints, with legal, fiscal, social and regulatory consequences. We must reinvent the world of associations with an economic approach, since an association, even the one whose object is the most social, is indeed an economic actor. The President of the Republic has called for more frequent experiments in the territories. On this subject, we should go so far. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The Republican Group will be on the rendezvous. We believe in the value of the community fabric in our territory, and we intend to defend and help it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u86	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u87	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that associations occupy an essential place in our society. With 20 million members, 15 million volunteers and 1.8 million employees, they play a major role in maintaining social cohesion, humanizing our society and addressing the various shortcomings or shortcomings of the state. To support the associative fabric, you have chosen to proceed in a strange way. Let's go back. [[Protests on several banks of the MODEM group]] The first attack on associations, you remember, took place this summer and crystallized all passions when the majority sacrificed, on the altar of the moralization of public life, the parliamentary reserve. The latter was mainly dedicated to helping small communes and associations which, every day, remind us of it on the ground. To come today to proclaim his love of the French community fabric, it comes a little near bad faith, not to say more,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u88	Which side is bad faith?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u89	... especially since – this is the second attack – the €25 million allocated to associations under the 2018 Finance Bill will weigh little against the €1.6 billion decrease in the voted budget. In spite of all this, I share with you a finding. Like you, I think that the 70000 associations that are created every year give us lessons of commitment, examples of courage and generosity. I am thinking of those who help people with disabilities, those who accompany older people, those who allow children and young people to discover and practice a sport that they like, those who promote the reintegration of unemployed people, those who protect our environment, and those who go beyond borders to help victims of natural disasters or wars, like persecuted Christians in the Middle East. I cannot, of course, quote all of them. But what if, by looking more closely at how certain subsidies are allocated, we see that small arrangements between friends are flourishing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u90	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u91	They thrive to this point that some associations are literally "sponsored" – I use this expression in conscience, as much as it looks like a national sport – by the governments that kneel before them, knowing full well that they represent only a handful of adherents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u92	What about the subsidies from the parliamentary reserve?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u93	What can be said when 7% of associations absorb 70% of public subsidies? I give you an example: in 2015 and 2016, the state paid €8.5 million in grants to associations working for the prevention of radicalisation, which led Senators Esther Benbassa and Catherine Troendlé, in a report published in July 2017, to say that associations that do not necessarily have deradicalization skills had become involved in this breach in order to obtain new financial resources. Thus, the experimental centre for prevention, integration and citizenship located at Pontourny Castle, in Indre-et-Loire, cost the €2.5 million basket; opened on an experimental basis in September 2016, it was closed less than a year later after hosting nine residents. The voluntary sector, however essential, is really polluted – I weigh my words – by a handful of associations that live under perfusion of the state. What can be said, to take another example, of those who, wishing to shape or police our society as they please, do not hesitate to bring repeated legal action – which is in fact their real business – to better muzzle those who dare to contradict them? What can be said about pseudo-associations for the defence of human rights or those who provide assistance to illegal immigrants and who receive excessive subsidies? It is estimated that this aid will amount to several tens of millions of euros, some even talking about 200 million euros of grants paid each year by the State, local authorities and sometimes the European Union. This gabegie, which has lasted too long, and simple common sense should encourage us to legislate so that the subsidies allocated to associations cannot exceed 50% of their annual budget. Thus, the French money would be equitably distributed. What if Parliament, which is supposed to control the allocation of these subsidies, becomes aware of them not after they have been paid, but before? We would take one more step towards transparency. I believe that the associations, the vast majority of associations, those that contribute to the common good, would be grateful to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u94	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u95	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a subject on which we can easily agree on these issues, it is indeed the need to accompany associative life in our country in an effective manner. Every parliamentarian, regardless of his personal, professional or political background, is deeply committed to this associative model and wishes to defend it with great conviction. There is unanimous agreement that associations are vectors of social ties, territorial and societal cohesion. They enable every citizen to flourish or find his place in society, in diverse and varied fields, such as sport, culture, education, and charitable or humanitarian commitment. However, the evidence on the ground and the various parliamentary reports produced over the past three years, all of which are of high quality, highlight the many obstacles that associations face and that are constantly accumulating. However, the specific role that associations play with the inhabitants, the values they carry and the wide range of skills they mobilize have never been as perceived as specific and valuable assets as they are today. Let me quote a few figures. The French association sector represents more than 16 million volunteers for 1.3 million associations. It employs 1.853 million employees, or 9.8% of employees in the private sector, for a wage bill of EUR 19 billion. In order to affirm its trust and support for associations, the Government launched, on 9 November, a development plan for associative life, which will be the subject of a very broad consultation and which is expected to be presented in March 2018. The Prime Minister has recently declared that "associations play a key role in our society, which the Government recognizes, supports and wishes to strengthen". We are, of course, aware of the concerns felt within the voluntary sector as a result of the abolition of the parliamentary reserve and the decline in the number of contracts assisted. It is not necessary to think of the accompaniment of associative life only through these two mechanisms. The Government and the parliamentarians of the La République en marche intend to support, accompany and strengthen associations otherwise, in an efficient, fair and transparent manner, throughout the quinquennium. On the financial side, the review of the first part of the budget shows that the Government has made associative life one of its priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u96	And one of his victims!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u97	Next year, the budget for associations has increased by 10% compared to 2017. For example, 150,000 civic services and 200,000 assisted contracts, with associations hosting the majority of beneficiaries, will be funded. The salary tax credit will be maintained in 2018 and 2019, which represents a 500 million euro gain for associations. This scheme, such as the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – will be transformed in 2019 into a permanent drop in employers' charges, allowing all associations to save €1.4 billion – i.e. €18500 per year for a ten-person association. I would also like to reiterate that the smallest associations will be able to benefit from EUR 25 million allocated to the Fund for the Development of Associative Life. This fund, of which the new abundance comes from the parliamentary reserve, is a relevant instrument of financial support to associations and its appropriations will be allocated as a priority to the smallest of them. This is a strong commitment of our Government, as you have pointed out with great conviction, Minister of National Education, in this House. As a former mayor of a rural commune in the department of La Manche, but also, over the years, as a volunteer, leader or president of several associations, I can assure you of my willingness to give priority to the positioning of these aids in favour of local associative life, in a fair manner, throughout the French territory. Recurrently allocated by the declines in state allocations since 2010 – I am thinking in particular of the DGF – a large number of local authorities have had to reluctantly resolve to reduce subsidies for associations. I therefore welcome the Government's decision to maintain the DGF in 2018 at the same level as in 2017. The method of financing associative life needs to be transformed and, above all, renewed, in the image of our society. Today, the citizen and the company want to be actors in their commitment. In order to do so, we will have to be inventive, but also careful to encourage the donations of individuals and businesses, to encourage patronage and to allow the implementation of new contracts, less complex administratively – all means of financing that can be substantial and lasting. Above all, we will have to draw inspiration from and support the inventiveness and adaptability of the community world. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, the Group of the European People's Party will adopt this motion for a resolution with great pleasure and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u98	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u99	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I dared to ask you who you are or have been part of an association, I am convinced that all or almost all of you would raise your hand. Like you, I know the world of associations. It's protein-forming. In Moselle, where I come from, our associations, coming from local law, are under the statute of the 1908 law, and I can tell you that we care about this particularity. I worked in priority neighbourhoods of city politics. In this context, I participated in the development and subsequent follow-up, as treasurer, of a district administration of 120 employees. Living in a small town, I am also secretary of two small associations without employees, one with a social vocation and the other with a sporting vocation. In a word, the associations are rich in diversity, but all participate in the best of living-together. Like all of you, I am fully aware of the essential role that associations play and of the need to support them, but I suggest that you insist on another way of thinking: why and how can associations help us, elected representatives, to define, implement and even evaluate the social projects that will be the framework of our laws? In other words, how can we restore confidence and work fully with associations? For a long time, the world of associations has been a barometer of public opinion, a relay of the shortcomings of our civil society. It reflects the evolution and concerns of society. It is sufficient to examine the typology or social objects of associations, which are constantly evolving. Associations operate as mediators. Close to people, they understand their problems, seek solutions and innovate. Many successful experiences are carried out every day and the associations deploy treasures of ingenuity. This is why they have played a historic role in the formulation of social policies and sometimes oblige the legislator to adapt the norms to these particularities, as was, for example, the case for the Emmaus Foundation in 2008. Although politics sometimes adapts, recent reports show that associations are not satisfied with the current mode of power and are seeking another democracy. There are many explanations for this mistrust of politics in the world, but among them, the fear that the relationship may turn to the detriment of the autonomy of associations seems to prevail. As mentioned above, associations take into account unsatisfied needs, organise collective actions to respond to them and carry innovations that can sometimes become widespread. They thus enrich the public debate. Then, the policies, from local authorities to the state, take over and establish various rules and decide on the subsidies to be granted. Some of these standards stifle the initiatives of associations, whose leaders fear that their responsibility will be engaged. Associations also feel too dependent on public funding and regret the resulting lack of autonomy. They regret that the partnership does not take place further upstream and feel excluded from the drafting of laws. I am told that the current functioning of society does not lead to the mobilization of citizens and their ownership of their collective future. However, studies show the opposite. Research and solidarity has thus published, with FIFG, the thirteenth edition of its large national survey on French and volunteerism: I am pleased to inform you that between 2010 and 2016, the proportion of French committed to volunteering – I specify that this is not the number of members of associations – has increased from 22.6% to 25%. It is, however, the evolution of the motivations of the volunteers that is particularly noteworthy. The term "volunteer" is now associated with the term "engaged citizen". Volunteers are aware of their personal and collective responsibility for the future of the city. This is an opportunity not to be missed. While the voluntary world does not cover the entire social and political reality, it is sometimes the only representative in certain areas of competence. Many legislative developments have taken place since 1901. Some laws, based on the excellent reports of our colleagues in the previous legislature, are all recent, but our society is changing rapidly. We must therefore continue to be responsive and ready to follow these developments. I know that you are, since a working group has already been set up on this subject in our House and this resolution is being proposed today. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, be convinced that the world of associations can lead us to reflect on the social projects that we will have to implement and regulate. What I propose to you is a co-construction, dear to the group La République en marche, to which I belong. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Let us continue along the path of co-production of the plan for the development of associative life announced by the Government on 9 November. Let us continue to invest heavily in this area. Let us be attentive and ready to listen, accept and integrate associative innovations. Let us unanimously adopt this excellent resolution proposed by our colleagues in the MODEM Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u100	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this exciting debate. I have listened to you all with great interest and I agree with many things that have been said in this rostrum. The 1901 law has been mentioned several times, which is quite normal on such a subject. This law was the first of its kind that the Constitutional Council took as its reference, in 1971, to rank it among the fundamental principles recognized by the Republic as having constitutional status. That is to say that beyond this constitutional value, it is also a kind of locomotive of the Republic and that the Republican genius that manifested itself in 1901 has, in a way, reached its advanced point when it allowed freedom of association. As many of you have pointed out, it is a desire at the international level, where France is a reference in terms of commitment, thanks to our elders, thanks to those who, in 1901, had this vision. Today, we are the heirs. That this law has more than a century does not in any way render it obsolete, quite the contrary. On the other hand, it brings us – it even obliges us – to reflect on what the associative life can be in the 21st century, and all your interventions show that it is possible. The two principles that guide my work as Minister of National Education, also responsible for youth and associative life, are trust – I keep repeating that we need, in France, to be more a society of trust, which we are insufficiently today – and emancipation, freedom. Education is based on the freedom it confers on children, adolescents and all those who benefit from it. Associative life also makes sense by this emancipation which it allows, by the dignity it restores, by the trust it creates. It is therefore very important to be aware of the current role of associations and also to reflect on what it might become in the future. This resolution, of course, invites us to do so. I am in full agreement with the various axes mentioned in the resolution. Whether it is simplification, the challenges of training and financial security, of course the educational axis – which shows the complementarity between the mission relating to education, for which I have responsibility, and those relating to associations and youth – or the axis of professionalisation, we can, as many of you have said, find ourselves in a situation of unanimity or at least of very great consensus to improve the situation in this field. So we are united not only to reflect, but also to act to support associative life in the future and in the direction of this progress. You gave a picture of the current situation. I will remind you briefly, without redundancy: there are now 1.3 million associations in France, which tell us the degree of commitment of the French and encourage us to be optimistic in this regard; 73,000 new associations are created each year – this is the 2016 figure – and 42% of French people over the age of 16 are members of an association and express their desire to gather around the most diverse causes. Associations participate in a public service mission. This idea was present in the spirit of the legislator in 1901 and in all subsequent debates; It is still in our minds, as long as we have a broad understanding of the general interest, the public service and its modalities of implementation. In addition, 12.9 per cent of the associations are employed. They represent 1.83 million jobs, or 9.8% of jobs in the private sector. Having had the opportunity to lead an employee association, I know the difficulties involved, but also the usefulness of this. The Government's support for the development of associative life will therefore be very strong. It is reflected in the finance bill, but also in our multi-year outlook, as several speakers have pointed out. Criticism has been expressed, but also a defence of our approach. Without repeating what Mr Bertrand Sorre has just said in this rostrum, I would like to point out, however, that, as part of my Youth and Associative Life programme, this year we are increasing the allocation for the development of associative life by EUR 5.8 million. It is therefore €67.6 million that is allocated to this budget. Credit for civic service is up 16%, with 150,000 young people welcomed in 2018. This is a considerable figure, which will obviously fuel the dynamism of associative life. On this point, we intend to make civic service a central element of associative dynamism. It is not a question of replacing civic service with jobs, as has been called for in this forum, it is obvious – I would remind you that the aided contracts, too, should not replace these jobs. Since we are talking about complementarity between education and the world of associations, we wanted to devote 10,000 civic services to the "Duties made" operation in college: not only is this not contradictory with the previous point but it is quite in line with the definition of civic services; We must rejoice at that. We must not oppose the various statutes but make them complementary. The Government wished to give priority to sustainable financial support schemes. This is the case with the wage tax credit, says CITS. As you know, this represents an annual gain of EUR 500 million for associations. In addition, the permanent reduction in employers' contributions amounts to 1.4 billion euros, which will be found in the finances of associations from 2019 onwards. This is obviously extremely important and, even if it is not immediately visible, it will have a major effect on associative life within the two-year horizon. This effect will affect the averages and the large associations, we recognize: we must therefore pay attention to the small associations – hence the efforts made in the budget, as well as the amendment that you unanimously adopted, allocating an additional EUR 25 million to the Fund for the Development of Association Life. As I said here, you will obviously be involved in defining how this Fund will work in the future. This definition will take place in the very short term, involving the parliamentarians who have been involved in this issue. Associative life is also economic life: we must invent the economic model of the 21st century for associations. We can be at the forefront, both at European and international level, to invent this economy of trust, in which associations will not consider themselves marginal in relation to economic life. On the contrary, they will show a path of general interest because, in the end, the economy is at the service of the general interest. The main thrusts of government policy for the development of associative life are threefold: to better support and support associations, in line with what you have suggested; better support the development of social utility activities undertaken by associations; Finally, to better recognize volunteerism and develop a society of commitment. This is what I will also do as Minister of Education by being very attentive to the proposals you have made for the commitment to be recognised from school, from college, from high school and from student life. As announced by the Prime Minister on 9 November, a new working group on associative life and engagement has been set up. It is jointly led by the Ministry of National Education, represented by the DJEPVA – Directorate of Youth, Popular Education and Associative Life, for which I have responsibility – the Office of the High Commissioner for the Social and Solidarity Economy – Christophe Itier has begun an important work in this area – and the associative movement, all in a logic of co-construction – you are many to have used this term, rightly. This working group will bring together all government departments, community representatives, parliamentarians and representatives of the community. Its launch meeting will take place on 13 December. A return of this joint work will be carried out in January 2018. The High Council for Associative Life will deliver an opinion on all the proposals made. Having already met with its representatives twice, I am very optimistic about the possibility of the High Council, including from a technical and legal point of view, accompanying the lines of work that you have proposed. This strategy for associative life and the social and solidarity economy will be presented at a major national conference and presented to the Council of Ministers before the end of April 2018. I am sure that you will be able to find the broad guidelines that you have wished to defend through this resolution. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM and REM groups and on many benches in the LR group]] Without further delay, we can work together. That is why I thank the MODEM Group for including this motion for a resolution on the agenda; I very much welcome the working session we had this morning and I invite you to adopt this resolution broadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u102	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u103	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u104	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u105	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Marc Fesneau and others on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention (No 310, 389).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u106	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u107	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, what the local elected representatives expect of us today is a listening and attention to the questions that they are asking about the transfer of competence GEMAPI – aquatic management and flood prevention – which have gradually turned into concerns as the deadline of January 1, 2018 was approaching. What they are looking for is the flexibility and adaptation to the needs of their territory that they have been demanding for several years. What they expect is recognition of their legitimacy to participate in forms of territorial cooperation that they consider to be effective, even if they are not perfect because not all territories are at the same stage of discussion, mutual assistance and solidarity, although all are increasingly part of this process. What they expect of us, collectively, is that we trust them to implement the means that will enable them to meet their obligations and responsibilities vis-à-vis their citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the rendezvous! This bill, tabled by Marc Fesneau and Richard Ferrand, presidents of the Democratic and Related Movement groups and the Republic on the move, is a response to this expectation, as evidenced by his examination in the Committee on Laws and the amendments that have supplemented it. All the groups discussed it, debated it ardently on certain points and finally adopted it because we are all convinced of its usefulness. I would like to thank you, Minister, because you personally supported this parliamentary initiative at the 28th National Intercommunal Convention. It is a manifestation, in my view, of your respect for parliamentary work and of our ability, as elected representatives of the nation, to identify points of consensus on all these benches when the subjects so require. What does this bill provide for as amended by the committee? In the first place, let what works be preserved: it is a matter of common sense, local elected officials know that well. This is why the departments – which have been heavily involved in flood prevention, often in territories affected by repeated and devastating floods – will be able to continue to exercise this competence beyond 2020, if they so wish and in the framework of an agreement signed with the EPCIs, the public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation. In a few moments, Madam Minister, you will propose that we also allow the regions managing works to retain their competence – we see this as a further step forward, as this issue has been discussed at length in committee. In addition, local authorities have often organized themselves for the implementation of this competence and, more generally, of water policy. Since their administrative boundaries are not adapted to the geographical layout of the basins, they have met in mixed unions, public water development and management establishments or territorial public basin institutions. It is within these institutions that they learn to work together within the framework of territorial cooperation if necessary for the effectiveness of aquatic management and flood prevention policies. They put in place logics of solidarity between areas upstream and downstream of the basins, and in this way provide real protection for their population. But not all of them are at the same point. Indeed, some communities have a common history that led them to cooperate early. They are often models of organisation, of engineering, and adeptly mobilise the available funding, while others have not been affected by natural phenomena of magnitude and do not consider the new competence GEMAPI as a priority for the planning and development of their territory. For the latter, the burden resulting from the transfer of this competence may seem heavy when they are not prepared and still imperfectly identify the nature of their responsibilities. This diversity of circumstances must not call into question our objective: to allow all citizens to enjoy the same level of protection in the light of the risks to which they are exposed, because it is our responsibility. There are indeed lives at stake: 18 million of our citizens are directly concerned and this figure will continue to increase due to climate change. However, it is in order to respond to this diversity and to take into account the different stages of cooperation that we have seen in our territories that we have extended derogations which already existed in respect of GEMAPI for the delegation of competence or the accession to an open joint union. In adopting these provisions, the Commission has fully reflected in the purpose of this bill, which is to accompany a difficult transition and a transfer of responsibility and charges to the EPCIs in respect of works which, for many of them, have not been regularly maintained in recent years. So, yes, we want to preserve what works and accompany the EPCI as best we can! Secondly, the draft law provides that the latter may not be subject to a system of ordinary liability. In case of damage, the judge would obviously have appreciated the responsibilities of the mayor, the prefect and the manager of the work, but it seemed to us that acceptance of this reform was based on our ability to provide a solution that, without exempting the EPCI from their responsibility, which would not have been acceptable, limited the latter – during a transitional phase – to the proper maintenance of the transferred works. That, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is what the priorities of our committee have been. I believe that we have achieved a balanced text, even if it remains perfectable, as the adoption of certain amendments will show in a few moments. Now I would like to thank all the groups that have fed our thinking and supported our amendments. I would also like to thank all those involved in water policy and the elected representatives whom we have heard, who have provided us with valuable information to enable us to understand the issues raised by this transfer. I would also like to express my gratitude to your services, Madam Minister, particularly to the devolved services that will have to accompany this reform, for their efforts to prepare the next deadlines and those that will remain to be done to give it full effect. It is a long work that awaits us, we are all aware of it. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM, UAI and LR groups]] I would like to conclude with one wish: that we should be able to adopt this bill as soon as possible because there is an urgent need to provide some answers, even though, at the end of the year, we are all mobilized by various subjects. It is our responsibility, as legislators, to give full effect to the progress made by this text by making its early adoption our priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u108	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u109	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, the rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, the draft law we are discussing today is part of the continuity of a legislative work which has occupied Parliament considerably in recent years: that of the division of powers between the different levels of communities. This project has, so to speak, occupied Parliament almost continuously during the previous parliamentary term. It has accompanied the very profound changes in the organisation, resources and missions of local authorities: institutional changes, of course, everyone knows this, with the creation of large regions, the birth of metropolises, the emergence of new communes, the affirmation of communities of special status such as the metropolis of Lyon, the City of Paris or the community of Corsica and, of course, the rationalisation of the intercommunal map but also the changes in the competences exercised by the different levels of communities. Simplification of the distribution of competences has gone hand in hand with the revision of our institutional architectures. Not a territory has been exempt from these developments. All have been and are still involved in this issue of the distribution of skills between different levels of communities. This draft law concerns one of these developments, which has led to the allocation of a new competence to the communal bloc: that of the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods. The logic of GEMAPI is strong and supportive but its implementation has encountered some difficulties, hence your parliamentary reflection. The creation of the GEMAPI competence by the law of 27 January 2014 – known as the MAPTAM law – to modernise territorial public action and affirm metropolitan areas, devolved by the same law to fiscal intercommunalities as of 1 January 2018, was a response to a simple observation. River management and flood risk management are closely linked. If natural flood extension areas are not managed, vegetation is allowed to damage and degrade flood protection structures, jams and debris are not treated, the risk of flooding and the intensity of its effects are obviously increased. On the other hand, as everyone knows, rivers, such as floods, are organized and developed on a scale of their own, that of watersheds. This is why the legislator wanted to bring these two aspects together in the same jurisdiction. In addition, as I have said, the risks of flooding do not know borders, nor do the effects of degradation of aquatic environments: they have an impact on all the riparian territories of rivers and streams, with those located downstream often more exposed than those upstream. Human activities, which are increasingly organised on broad scales of cooperation – those of territorial coherence schemes, local or inter-municipal planning – are at the same time those which, often for a long time, benefit most from rivers but also, unfortunately, those which are too often the most affected by flood risks. That is why this competence must rest with the communities which, more than the State, are the public persons whose role is to organize the distribution of human and economic activities in the territory in order to promote their development. It is also for this reason that the legislator – I would remind you that it is by way of amendments that the GEMAPI was introduced into the MAPTAM law – chose to organise territorial solidarity in these areas and to entrust the intercommunal network with the task of exercising this competence – because it is obviously a question of solidarity between the territories in the field of GEMAPI. The logic of GEMAPI is therefore a strong logic, a logic of solidarity. However, there were some difficulties in its implementation. Not all of our rivers, rivers and streams are maintained properly. Where local residents do not always fulfil their obligations, where the communes were too weak, or too fragile to take care of the rivers, it was possible, it is still possible, that everything could be invented. Above all, the management of the dikes is certainly a dispersed competence and not always well exercised. Here, dykes belong to associations of owners who do not carry out their maintenance obligations properly. Elsewhere, the property of ancient works is not well defined and it is not well known to whom they belong. There, communities were unable to agree and organize to put in place an appropriate containment system. In other places, the state has not always been a proactive and diligent owner. Finally, focusing on its work of rationalising and simplifying the powers of local authorities, the 2014 legislator probably did not take enough time to examine what might already exist in the territories, even before the GEMAPI competence came into being under the conditions I recalled. Because it is indeed territories where initiatives had been structured, sometimes for a long time, to ensure the mutual maintenance of rivers. Because in territories that are at high risk of flooding – I am thinking, for example, of cevenol episodes in the south-east – communities had taken initiatives to prevent inertia from causing deaths every year or almost every year. Because, finally, following major marine submersion crises, some communities had engaged in ambitious and long-term work to better protect homes and human activities. However, the uniformity provided for by the MAPTAM Act had the effect of no longer permitting such initiatives, even obliging them to be deconstructed when non-municipal communities were involved. It was, everyone knows and measures, a real source of difficulty for these territories. Throughout the autumn and summer, the various members of the Government who consulted the communities, those who moved to the territories, noted these difficulties and heard the elected representatives. So we wanted to revisit the GEMAPI competence in line with the philosophy of the national conference of territories. This philosophy is simple, and the Prime Minister expressed it perfectly by opening the discussions at the first meeting of the National Conference of Territories in the Senate on July 17th: "In terms of competences, we want to both allow local freedoms to express themselves while maintaining the idea of a global stability of the system. » Indeed, there is no question of completely re-establishing the balances that have just been found. We have understood, and we have heard, the strong demand for stability from elected officials in the area of the distribution of competences. This request is endorsed by the Government. The President of the Republic just confirmed this last week in front of the mayors of France gathered in congresses. I can therefore inform you that the Government will not revert to the broad features of GEMAPI. We will implement this reform. We assume this share of inheritance. To want strong communities, as this Government wishes, is to allow them to settle in their skills. As from 1 January 2018, intercommunal authorities will exercise the GEMAPI competence that they may, if they so wish, transfer to trade unions of a particular type, the public territorial basin establishments, EPTB, and the public water management and development establishments, EPAGE. They will also benefit from a new tax resource that will allow them to exercise this jurisdiction. But this stability must be accompanied by conditions for the implementation of the law that allow local freedoms to express themselves fully. Indeed, in this field of GEMAPI, it appears that the law leads to certain difficulties because the rules it defines are ill-suited to the reality and the great diversity of our territories. What works in the south-west, for example, is poorly applied to areas where river geography is made of very large rivers or, conversely, a complex skein of canals and small streams, as in the Poitevin Marais. Similarly, the risk of flooding does not have the same scope or meaning everywhere. In some territories, it is a well-known risk, which occurs every year or almost every year, and a risk, unfortunately, sometimes fatal. This has, of course, led communities to organize themselves and take initiatives without waiting for the legislator to intervene. The Government therefore wishes to take into account local consensus, what works well – sometimes for centuries – in marshland, canals or large rivers, or in littoral territories exposed to the risk of submersion. Attentive to the Territories and listening to its elected officials, the Government immediately indicated that it was open to initiatives by parliamentarians to improve the law on the issue of jurisdiction. As we have committed ourselves to it, the Government therefore welcomes your proposals to allow the departments to continue to carry out the strategies and policies they have developed and to prevent the emergence of the GEMAPI competence from deconstructing the existing fabric of bodies involved in this field, in Charente-Maritime, in the Alpes-Maritimes or in other departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u110	In Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u111	Yes, in Alsace or in the territory of Belfort, for example. Mr Fesneau, I am coming out of a meeting in Matignon on the preparation of the national conference of the territories, to be held on 14 December, and I can tell the authors of the bill that Mr Dominique Bussereau, President of the Assembly of the Departments of France and of the General Council of Charente-Maritime, has said his satisfaction at the reintroduction of the departments in the provisions on GEMAPI. I would suggest that you extend this option to those regions which had responsibilities in this area and which want to continue to do so, because some have manifested themselves and we have also wanted to hear them; It is the same principle and the same reflection. Stability and continuity can go hand in hand with improvements. Parliamentary work has made it possible to identify certain issues on which, in fact, our right could be improved. Here again, the Government supports it, in line with the philosophy of the National Conference of Territories. This is the case with the difficult question of responsibility. Answers must be given to the concern of the elected officials, who are being transferred from the works and fear that they will be immediately held responsible for their imperfections, their fragility and even their shortcomings. A clear and operational response can be included in the legislation, as long as decisions are made on containment strategy. It is also the case – and it is a subject that I love – of the free organization of communities. Last week, the President of the Republic mentioned the need to develop pragmatic and differentiated approaches, allowing elected officials to innovate. In the field of GEMAPI, this also seems to us necessary. That is why we wish to acknowledge in the law the secability of the various components of this competence, which can each be organized, or transferred, in the way that the intercommunal elected representatives will consider most appropriate. Your bill makes it possible and the Government is in favour of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a debate earlier, because if we wanted to strengthen what exists and works, if we supported initiatives to improve the law by clarifying what it did not say, or to facilitate the free organization of communities in the exercise of their powers, then the Government does not wish, on this occasion, to revisit in depth the structural elements of the landscape of local institutions. We have certainly wanted to allow the stabilization of existing structures, in order to promote the empowerment of inter-communities. The bill gives a great deal of freedom to this end; In the case of GEMAPI, it even gives all possible freedoms: functional sequestration of competence, territorial sequestration of its exercise, early acquisition of competence, possible involvement of regions and departments and shared organization of competence through conventions. This text, ladies and gentlemen, goes very far in the freedom and trust given to communities: it gives them the freedom to organize themselves. However, should we go further and reform the basic rules of the organisation of local institutions? Our right prohibits the membership of a joint union open to another open joint union. It was not us who invented this rule; It's a legacy. It is not out of the will to restrain local freedoms, but on the contrary to protect the communities and ensure the ability of their elected officials to control the competences they entrust to trade unions. This rule makes it possible to ensure the legibility of the organisation of competences, the simplicity of financing and the clarity of governance. In fact, allowing the stacking of trade union structures and facilitating their intertwining means allowing the exercise of skills and their financing to be transferred in a cascade. But I would also like to tell you that this is not in the interests of the communities, which would deprive themselves of the means to effectively control the funding and the ways in which the powers transferred are exercised, i.e. their own powers. Nor is this in line with the provisions of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, which prescribe a rational and legible organisation of inter-municipal cooperation. However, the Government confirms its support for this objective: local freedoms can go hand in hand with the clarity and simplicity of local organizations. This is the meaning of the important work done throughout France in recent years, which we must respect. I would like to tell you even more that such an architecture favouring the interlocking and stacking of structures is not in line with the founding principles of local democracy either. To the responsibility of elected officials, first of all, who must, before the citizens and the electors, assume the fiscal responsibility for the financing of the competence GEMAPI and be able to account for it. Complex governances and cascading financing between multiple structures do not allow it and complicate things. Next, the central place of communities, led by elected councils, in the governance of decentralized policies. Starting in 2020, it will be forbidden to have trade unions chaired by qualified personalities – which was sometimes the case, even in very large trade unions. In the local governance of GEMAPI – like other jurisdictions – the central place must in fact be the local elected representatives. It is for the elected representatives of the intercommunalities, because they are the elected representatives of a particular territory, that it is up to them to sit in the EPAGEs and the EPTBs. It is therefore perfectly legitimate and natural that only the elected representatives of the intercommunities, as representatives of the latter, should sit in the forums of union governance. For the rest – I will have the opportunity to make it clear – the law has already made it possible to organise full cooperation between open mixed unions in the field of GEMAPI, which can be easily exercised by means of conventions. Similarly, trade unions with the broadest vocation, i.e. public basin institutions, can even intervene in the jurisdiction of other trade unions, without the need for accession: the law has already provided for it. Cross-membership of trade unions therefore has no technical justification. While it may have historical justifications and facilitate the crystallization of existing situations, it has the very important drawbacks of complexity and accountability that I have indicated. The Government does not want to silence the serious disadvantages of the proposed solution: we consider it useful to have this debate during the consideration of this bill. I have therefore tabled amendments to come back to these issues in order to assess the implications. In any event, these implications are so important that they must be considered with the utmost caution, for the Government, only in the field of GEMAPI and only in the case of the specific structures which are constituted in the form of EPAGE and EPTB. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by going back to the very positive signal of this bill, to which the Government as a whole is very supportive. This proposal materializes our desire to adapt the law, where necessary, to allow local freedoms to express themselves fully, to take into account the initiatives taken by the communities and what works. It will indeed implement the first commitments made at the national conference of the Territories. It confirms that this state of mind is not just a facade: the commitments made are fulfilled – and kept fairly quickly, in six months. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] By supporting this bill, the Government demonstrates that it is listening to the territories...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u112	That's still to be demonstrated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u113	... and willing to develop and improve the law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u114	That won't be enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u115	... without giving up what it has of ambitious for the transformation of the territories, or of protector for the great balances of our decentralized Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u116	That's all! It's all big words.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u118	In the general debate, Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u119	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I think we will all agree that the issue that brings us together, namely the management of the aquatic environment and the prevention of floods, is of importance. It raises the concern of a number – if not all – of the local authorities, whether they fully recover that competence or are divested in the current state of law. I thank the rapporteur for the considerable work she has done with our colleague Catherine Kamowski of the La République Group in the conduct of the work of the Committee on Laws on this proposal. Beyond their geographical proximity, I salute them for their teamwork, with all the groups represented in our assembly. The MAPTAM law of 27 January 2014 entrusts the EPCIs with own taxation on an exclusive and compulsory basis with the exercise of the tasks of aquatic management and flood prevention as from 1 January 2018. This provision was the result of a wish expressed in particular by elected representatives of rural territories. In terms of principles, it seemed useful, and even necessary, to do so; But it must be said that at the time this provision was voted on without the full impact being measured. Indeed, the preparation of this transfer of powers has raised a number of practical questions. It was therefore necessary to put this measure back on the job, in order to avoid the obvious shortcomings and inaccuracies faced by the EPCIs. We can only be satisfied with the constructive debate that took place in the Committee on Laws, in particular – I repeat – thanks to the work of Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, but also – I would like to stress this – thanks to the will, common to all parliamentary groups, to see this text come to fruition in the interests of our communities and our fellow citizens. I would like to recall here that this bill deals exclusively with the exercise of GEMAPI competence and the practical arrangements for its transfer and implementation. I commend the Government for having initiated the accelerated procedure on this text – which is rare for a bill – and its willingness, shared on these benches, to see it finally adopted before the end of the year with the assistance and constructive cooperation – I am sure – of the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the rule of law is not satisfactory. If our group has tabled this bill, co-signed by the Republic on the move – of which I welcome all the members present here and President Richard Ferrand – it is because we wanted to introduce more flexibility in the implementation of this transfer of powers. Many communities were not prepared to assume them under favourable conditions. We want to allow what is working today to continue to work when it does not conflict with the desire for rationalisation affirmed by the legislator in recent years – I think, for example, of the coastal departments, which have an undeniable expertise and means in terms of preventing the risks of marine submersion. Secondly, we have tabled this bill with a view to co-construction with all our colleagues and with local elected associations. Our idea, from the beginning, is to be able to amend this text to take advantage of field experiments, provided that we confine ourselves to its own object, namely the organisation of the competence GEMAPI. You can easily guess all the other issues that some would be tempted to address through this bill: we cannot accept them, because it would not be in the right direction. This bill, as introduced and subsequently amended in committee, is in the right direction. Article 1 of the Act allows departments carrying out aquatic management and flood prevention tasks to continue to do so after 1 January 2020 – which is impossible under the current law. The examination in committee substantially enriched this article. An amendment by the rapporteur, which was intended to respond to a request from several groups, provided for the establishment of a convention between the EPCI and the department when the latter wishes to continue to carry out a mission under GEMAPI. The agreement shall specify the distribution of tasks and the arrangements for coordination and financing of such allocation. Flexibility and clarity are the two objectives that we aim for, not only by Article 1e r but by the whole text. This precision contributes to this. The scope of Article 2 has been expanded in committee. He initially opened the debate – through a request for a report to the Government – on river management. It seems to us that the EPCIs alone are not the appropriate scale to exercise this management; We believe that this should be more of a supra-EPCI policy, with a national vision. An amendment by the rapporteur also provides for the extension of the scope of this report to include coastal areas and state-owned dams. Coastal submersion raises the same issues as river management, issues of national importance. We are, of course, in favour of that. I stress the importance of this report, the text of which states that it should include the possible institutional and financial developments of these managements. We do not elucidate the question of financing the GEMAPI competence, but I would remind those of our colleagues who would be tempted to introduce measures in this text on this issue that it is not its purpose. The time to address this problem will come with the reform of local taxation announced by the President of the Republic. The most immediate urgency is the practical organisation of the transfer of competence – given that the original scheme already provided for the possibility of introducing a tax. Articles 3 and 4 are of particular importance because they put an end to the frequent differences of interpretation between the State services and the EPCI regarding the possibility of organizing what is known as the "internal secability" of the tasks of the GEMAPI competence. Through these articles, it will be possible for CIPOs to transfer or delegate, in whole or in part, each of the four items within this jurisdiction. An additional amendment, adopted in committee at the initiative of the rapporteur, has made it possible to further improve the flexibility of this scheme by allowing the EPCIs to delegate – in addition to the transfer – to joint unions under ordinary law. It thus aligns their transfer and delegation arrangements with those of EPAGE and EPTBs. Here, too, we are moving in the right direction: without this measure, certain structures, exercising part of a mission effectively today, may find themselves in difficulty. I turn to Articles 5 and 6 of the proposed law, which draw the direct consequences of Article 1, namely the possibility for departments carrying out GEMAPI missions, particularly with regard to flood risk prevention, to provide EPCI with their engineering and technical assistance, the latter to be organised by convention. This gives us access to a strong demand from some communities, including coastal departments. Today we are looking at a clear text whose ambition is to facilitate the practical arrangements for the transfer of competence. We are mobilized this morning and this afternoon to take a necessary step. I note that all the associations of elected representatives welcomed our collective work on this text and invited us to vote broadly. In conclusion, I stress that this text is first of all practical in scope. It aims to simplify the implementation of the GEMAPI, without changing the spirit of the reform carried out in this area by the MAPTAM law. It enables local realities to be taken into account by reconnecting with actors who have been deeply involved in these issues in recent years. It raises the question of financing, which had only been completely lifted, because only the principles of the tax had been laid down, and we see that this issue has a much wider scope, with regard to rivers and coasts. It also helps – and is essential – to strengthen and help communities prevent flooding. It is a technical challenge, an engineering challenge, a financial challenge; It is also an eminently important issue of governance, a political issue. Here lies the capacity for dialogue between territories, for solidarity between upstream and downstream. It is an invitation to cooperate among communities in the common interest. The question of the place of the State also arises, as it must remain present in this field. On the method, this text follows from the assumption that where functional solutions have been found, let us adapt the law to allow communities the freedom to retain them. Finally, this text leads us to ask ourselves the question of dialogue with the citizens. This is a point that may not be sufficiently perceived. What better challenge than to make people understand the risks – which will be more and more numerous with climate change – and to prepare them to face them, and to share responsibilities with them? There is a need to develop a shared risk culture, as this attitude is too often absent from public debate. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] These are formidable challenges. The purpose of this text is to provide communities with tools to deal with them. In this sense, we play our full role as legislators.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u120	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Rapporteur, the exercise of the GEMAPI competence was, is and will always be a technical and complex issue. But it is above all a particularly important issue, which concerns us all: we Members of Parliament, in our capacity as legislators; local elected officials, of course, to whom this heavy responsibility has been entrusted; but also our fellow citizens, who are at the heart of these territories shaped by the rivers, rivers and coastlines that make their wealth, and especially because they are the first to be exposed to natural hazards. Indeed, what makes these territories strong and what contributes to their attractiveness can also make them vulnerable. Today, as many as 18.5 million people are at risk of flooding and submersion, which is expected to increase in the face of climate change. We all remember the tragic events of recent years, both in metropolis and overseas. Of course, neither legislation nor communities will prevent these disasters. They can, however, prevent them and limit their consequences. To be able to mitigate the effects of these natural phenomena, it is necessary to organise effective management of risk areas, which are often located close to densely populated urban centres. This is why the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention is a major challenge where partisan divisions do not have a place. We will all agree, moreover, that the grievances of the local elected representatives in this regard, regardless of their labels and political sensitivities, are essential: we must strengthen cooperation and avoid the fragmentation of the governance of the GEMAPI competence. This is an essential prerequisite for the definition and implementation of a comprehensive strategy for risk management and prevention. This was also the objective of the MAPTAM law of 27 January 2014 and of the provisions on the transfer of competence to the EPCI between 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2020, as the inter-municipal level appears best able to exercise the two areas of intervention of the GEMAPI. However, this reform has given rise to new uncertainties, if not real concerns: this new responsibility requires important institutional reorganisations. However, within a few weeks of its entry into force, most EPCIs clearly did not have enough time and were not sufficiently accompanied to exercise this competence in good conditions. Therefore – rightfully and for several months – the local elected representatives ask us to adapt the legislation to accompany the implementation of this reform. This is the subject of this proposal for a law on which the MODEM Group has taken the initiative. Admittedly – it is obvious – it will not be able to respond to all the difficulties that can be posed by the tasks relating to what is known as the large water cycle, for example those generated by the exercise of water and sanitation skills, which were wisely raised by the Republican Group a month ago by means of a bill which unfortunately was referred back to committee. But this bill, which we are about to look at, seems to us to be necessary because it focuses on the essentials. In response to the concerns of the community associations and in the continuity of the announcements made by the Government, the aim is therefore to adapt the implementation of the GEMAPI reform by strengthening the role of the departments, adjusting the regime of the responsibility of the elected representatives, relaxing the arrangements for the transfer and delegation of competence, widening the dialogue between the actors and, finally, deepening the studies on the consequences of this reform. Therefore, Article 1e authorises departments performing on 1 January 2018 one or more of the tasks attached to the GEMAPI competence to continue their commitments beyond 1 January 2020, subject to the conclusion of a five-year agreement with each municipality or EPCI with its own taxation situated in their territory. This article also rightly provides that the liability of the said communes and EPCI shall not be permitted if they operate and maintain the works in accordance with the rules of art. The result is an article 1bis, added during the examination in the committee of laws, which will be discussed; it is intended to authorise, within the scope of the GEMAPI competence alone, the accession of a mixed trade union open to another joint trade union opened after the agreement of the prefect coordinator of the basin. Article 2 provides for the submission to Parliament of an evaluation report by the Government in order to be able to draw all the consequences of the transfer of the competence of GEMAPI for the management of rivers, coastal zones and state-owned dikes. This report, particularly expected as uncertainties have so far weighed, will also present an assessment of the protection against the risks of river flooding and marine submersion, and will examine possible institutional and financial developments in this management. As for Articles 3 and 4, they explicitly allow internal sequestration to transfer or delegate all or part of one of the tasks of the GEMAPI competence to EPAGEs or EPTBs. Finally, Articles 5 and 6 are intended to enable communities and groups that promote water policy to also intervene in the field of flood risk prevention, as well as to allow departments to provide technical assistance to EPCIs who request it where they do not have sufficient technical means to exercise the competence of GEMAPI. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the grievances of local elected officials, the communities and their associations to which we have all been sensitive, and in view of the response given by the provisions I have just referred, I believe that this bill can be supported by all the groups in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u122	If we want to!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It does not solve everything, of course, but it is a first step that will allow all the actors concerned to appropriate the GEMAPI competence in good conditions, which is essential for the establishment not only of genuine territorial cooperation for water management but also of a comprehensive strategy for risk management and prevention. The IUD, Action and Independent Group fully supports this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u124	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the examination of the text before us today is to respond to the repeated requests of local and inter-communal elected representatives: a few weeks before the transfer of the competence "management of aquatic environments and protection against floods", provided for by the law on the modernisation of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the MAPTAM law, of 2014, they are indeed for many of them in the inability to ensure it and the risks that go with, in particular with regard to protection against floods. The painter Claude Monet said that "to see a small stream burrowing in the grasses is worth the smile of the Mona Lisa." But reality is often more complex! Today, three years later, the less bucolic result of various but converging laws is that it is necessary to add to the MAPTAM law its twin sisters, namely the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – and the law on the delimitation of the regions, which have profoundly changed the territorial balances, but without ever that the first concerned – I speak of the people and their local elected representatives – had their say at the time of their adoption! What did we not warn at the time about the inconsistencies and the pure dogmatism that was to impose from above transfers of skills without taking into account territorial and local realities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u126	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u127	As too often, the Communist and Left Front elected representatives had been right, before the hour, by refusing to give in to the fashion of super-territories, presented as the alpha and omega of modern development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u128	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u129	And now we realize that these transfers pose enormous difficulties, that they are neither effective nor realistic, and that we are being proposed to put down some tricks here and there because, as we all know, the technocratic approach is always more beautiful than the territorial arrival. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on many benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] So you will see no malice on my part, Madam rapporteur, Madam Minister, if I say that this text is above all a balm to try to calm a little the growing anger of local elected officials, an increasing anger at political choices that all fit in with a liberal vision of the future of the territories where only the competition between large structures, between large intercommunalities, between major cities and large regions counts. A few days after the administration by the executive of a first comforting ointment to the mayors gathered in congresses, here is a text for the least technical, certainly in good faith, but which proceeds more from the display than from a determined desire to change direction. So, as I say right away, ladies and gentlemen, we are not fooled by the way in which we proceed. Despite this, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for this text, faithful to its conduct of supporting everything in the right direction. However, I doubt that it is sufficient in itself to remove all the constraints and difficulties imposed by the transfer of the GEMAPI competence to the EPCI. Its content, minimalist in the light of the challenges posed by water management, is far from satisfying us. We must go beyond the mere technical nature of the provisions contained in it, which, I think, will essentially be a consensus. For there are major problems that are, once again, totally and knowingly ruled out. The most fundamental of these omissions, unfortunately becoming recurrent in the course of parliamentary work, is to want to talk about competences but always evacuating the question of means from the debates. You yourself, the rapporteur, are self-censored by preventing you from addressing these issues under the pretext of the constraint of the deadlines for the examination and implementation of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u130	I'm not self-censoring. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u131	For my part, I will allow myself to address them anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u132	But please.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u133	For we all know that it is the question of means that is central. And it is this question that we need to work on if we do not want the gap to widen between announcements and real attempts to solve the problems of managing the large water cycle! Thus, the last laps of budgetary pass that consist of taking in Paul's pocket what one refuses to give to Peter, while accusing Paul of not working for the common good: I mean the iniquitous removals from the water agencies, of which one no longer even knows to what level they rise...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u134	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] ... in the whirlwind of procrastination between the commission and the public sitting, and in the blurry of the articles of the PLF. But the turn that is imposed on us is not enough to make us lose consciousness! The Grand Master of Clocks therefore wants our communities to act as quickly as possible to meet their obligations more effectively in terms of water quality, protection of populations, improvement of networks, prevention of leaks, collective and non-collective sanitation. At the same time, however, her small government hands – of which you are, Madam Minister – blindly cut 500 million euros in the resources of the agencies that are essentially used to co-finance their actions. What a terrible logic! This is where we carry out very concrete policies of contraction of public spending and austerity so dear to liberals on all benches – whose convictions, it is true, are sometimes of varying geometry. [[Smile]] But don't let it go. Since you have put this legislative vehicle on the track, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you show up to the end of courage and initiative. To take up a historic word, you know well that "with steam, you need the cylinder and piston, otherwise it's no use" – amazing words in my mouth since they're Trotsky's. National representation must therefore amplify your breath to propose real progress. [[Rites and applause on the benches of the GDR and MODEM groups, on several benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the REM group]] So why not start by reaffirming the requirement of maintaining the responsibility of the State for the management and maintenance of the state dykes built on our rivers? Our territorial elected representatives have no need to wait, as you propose, for a report on the consequences of this transfer to the EPCI, especially since this report will never come... You know, he's an old man who tells you, relationships, it's like vitriol in Les Tontons gunners: we often stop producing them "because it's made stories." Our local authorities are already fully aware of what they are not able to assume due to lack of financial, technical and human resources. The management of these protective structures is essentially in the national interest, as they are located on public waterways. Let us therefore blow up this transfer of power, which once again had no other purpose than to clear the State from a burden which falls to it. Ladies and gentlemen, like you, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic a few days ago. On this critical issue of water management, they are now calling for greater flexibility in terms of territorial expectations. Shit! Let us therefore show the same flexibility and a true sense of initiative; Let us use this text to define together, from now on, the possibilities for municipalities to retain their "water" and "sanitation" skills when they wish to do so, and not only in a transitional way but in a permanent way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u137	Let us discuss these concrete provisions together today! This is the subject of a number of amendments that I have tabled, as have other colleagues. Let us show that we are able to respond to the general interest of the territories without waiting for the validation of any lider maximo! Let's show now that we're useful! On the occasion of the examination of this text, I still have the feeling that the legislator who is now wanted to be modern and effective is in fact increasingly forced to complicate the law a little more each time, failing to assume his responsibilities in due course with regard to incoherent and dogmatic bills. As a child realizes that he has done a big mistake, the legislator, as on mission, then mobilizes treasures of ingenuity to make evolve what I will call, taking the words of Alexander Vialatte, "the lost detail of a truncated ensemble", to make us swallow that we can do much better with much less. Minister, this neoliberal ready-to-thinking also irrigates water policy – I recognize that the image is easy. And here too, we have to fight him. For there is no point in reaffirming to the mayors that "either we go to the bottom, or our chances of success are minimal" while humbly drowning the fish – if we stay there, we will not be far from Boby Lapointe – with regard to the decline in financial resources available to the main public actors in the water. To enlighten my speech, and after quoting Monet, I do not resist the desire to have you meditate, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on this subject of Elisha Reclus, geographer and communeard, forerunner of social geography and ecology, who, in her remarkable History of a Creek, already wrote in 1869: [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] "Thus, not everything is joy and happiness on the edges of this charming stream where life could be so sweet, where it seems natural for everyone to love and enjoy existence. Here, too, the social war is constantly taking place; Here too men are engaged in the terrible mingle of "vital competition ".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u138	Anyway, there's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u139	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u140	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal for a law on the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods – I have noted the many calls to limit the debate to this strict title, but as you will know, I will avoid complying with it – an area in which all local and regional authorities are legitimate to take action until 1 January 2018. It is on that date that jurisdiction must be transferred to public institutions for intercommunal cooperation with own taxation, i.e. communities of communes, agglomeration communities, urban communities and metropolises. Just as we were opposed in 2015 to the adoption of the NOTRE law, the group La France insoumise rejects this third act of decentralization which you have pudically presented, Madam Minister, as a measure of administrative management, but which is none other than the pursuit of a political project aimed, in the end, at creating free and undistorted competition between local and regional authorities. We oppose as much the authoritarian mergers of the municipalities in the intercommunities as the creation of the metropolises, consecration of new regions which ultimately overlap no reality other than that of the nomenclature of territorial statistical units – known as NUTS 1, NUTS 2 and NUTS 3 – used by the European Union in the framework of its regional policy and in particular of the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF. In substance, with regard to the GEMAPI competence, the issue of safety, which is supposed to be at the heart of the device, is not really addressed. It should be remembered that in metropolitan France there are about 9000 kilometres of dikes, which are managed by private or public persons, and sometimes even, per person! In view of the changes made by the new regulations, approximately 6000 kilometres of dykes to be maintained would remain with the GEMAPI authorities. The role of the State becomes all the more crucial as climate change accelerates and increases. The terrible tragedy of storm Xynthia, on 27 and 28 February 2010, reminds us in this regard of the imperative of managing the sea dykes. On this subject, I refer you to the warning addressed to humanity by 15,000 researchers: because of climate change and its consequence, rising water, water management and flood prevention will become increasingly recurring problems. But we tell you this forcefully, it is not by introducing a competitive logic that we will ensure safety: the two requirements seem to us to be totally opposed. So we risk missing our target.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u141	It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u142	This also applies to rivers, since the same logic is at work. Moreover, and this has been pointed out on several occasions, intercommunalities may not be the most appropriate level for managing rivers that extend far beyond their perimeter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u143	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u144	The state itself, in this area, has not necessarily been up to date, as the press has often pointed out. So that, in the end, the transfer of the GEMAPI competence is for the local authorities a real poisoned gift. This leads me to join my colleague André Chassaigne on the question of means: the responsibility for equipment already under-maintained is transferred to communities that will not necessarily have the means to do better. Of course, this is not the way to make things right. The bill also leaves aside the question of water agencies and the means given to them to carry out their tasks, whether in terms of safety or expertise in flood prevention, pollution, erosion and dike collapse. These agencies are now under too much budgetary constraint. Is it necessary to recall that the finance bill for 2018 reduces their budget by more than 200 million euros even though the scope of their missions is only growing? Under these conditions, the La France insoubted group can only question their ability to finance work related to the protection of aquatic environments or to assist communities in the exercise of the GEMAPI competence. But perhaps there is also a competitive market in this area – and therefore, for some private operators who can provide expertise equivalent to those of water agencies, a place to take. In the eyes of our group, it is not by placing communities in a confrontational logic that we will create common ground: it is true in general, but also in this particular area. Nor is it by opposing the legitimacys that we will give a democratic breath to our country. In any event, such an approach is contrary to our duty to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. As elected representatives of the nation, it is our responsibility to act in such a way that we cannot be accused, in the next environmental disaster, of having sacrificed this security in the name of competition. In the end, responsibility is the substance of the subject: does not an article of the bill seek, to a certain extent, to clear the territorial authorities of their own, at least the time that the transfer of jurisdiction takes? In any case, the State remains responsible for both risk management and flood prevention. This is a clear hypocrisy. They say to the communities: you are being transferred the GEMAPI competence without the corresponding means, but you will not be responsible anyway right away! As my colleague André Chassaigne said, no one is fooled. Of course, a number of provisions are in the right direction. We are, for example, in favour of Article 1, which allows departments, and in particular those which already assumed the competence of GEMAPI, to continue to do so after 2020. This is a pragmatism that you so often praise, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. On the other hand, we are opposed to the secability of the different skills, because cutting them into small pieces will not help to have a good vision of their management. Initially, they were exercised within the EPAGEs and the EPTBs, which were established by order of the Prefect, so the State was ultimately pilot in this area. From now on, they can be subdelegated to other unions. We do not see this as a way of questioning the coordinating role played by the State. Another element concerns the financing of aquatic management, an area in which the removal of the housing tax has upset the initial equation. Even though I understood that guarantees were given for 2018, which of the following years? We need a clearer vision, and that is why one of our amendments provides for the drafting of a report on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u145	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u146	In our view, the State must remain a coordinator. There is, again, a lot of hypocrisy: while the department is called upon to divest itself, in the long run, of the competence of GEMAPI for the benefit of the intercommunalities, it will still be obliged, under Article 6, to assist the latter in the prevention of floods. We can see clearly the dogmatic, doctrinal nature of the practice of putting above all else the intercommunality, followed by the region and the European Commission, in accordance with what, in terms of administrative division, is built up as a triptych of modernity. We are obviously opposed to that. What do we propose? The abolition of the compulsory transfer of powers imposed by the NOTRE Act. Moreover, we were defending and continuing to defend the same logic with regard to water and sanitation. Each time, it is a matter of transferring a skill on a mandatory basis before realizing that its management is too complicated and that it may be better to go back and proceed differently. Each time, the terrain, pragmatism, reality are opposed to this doctrinal and dogmatic vision which makes the advent of intercommunality the alpha and the omega of any public policy. We have therefore drafted a number of amendments on this subject. One of them provides for the possibility of installing public drinking water points in each of the communes of France. It still seems rather strange – and in my opinion problematic – that, in some places, there is not even a public toilet! Similarly, we consider that the first 14.6 cubic metres of water must be free of charge, as access to water is vital. Water is life: we must therefore be able to guarantee free access to the first cubic metres and, as a result, remove the part of the subscription in the bill of running water. Finally, a differentiated pricing of water uses should be established, because the demands of the energy transition, which must be of concern to all of us for the years to come, require us to better manage this resource. This is the general philosophy that drives us: we will therefore be in favour of articles that go in the right direction, and we will oppose others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u147	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u148	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today the National Assembly is being asked to adapt the territorial reform voted and implemented under the previous legislature. Far from being closed to any change in this important reform, the New Left Group will vote on the bill presented by the Democratic and Related Group. This has been recalled before me, the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods, called GEMAPI, is today a shared competence between the State and the different categories of territorial authorities, namely the communal bloc, the departments and the regions. Our country, which is home to many aquatic environments and is heavily affected by the risk of flooding, nevertheless, it was appropriate to encourage the territories to adopt a comprehensive approach to the management of these environments and the prevention of these risks. I am elected in Seine-Maritime, a department where the valleys often bear the names of the rivers that cross them – I think of the valleys of Austereberthe, Cailly, Seine or Commerce – and which has experienced dramatic floods. Fortunately, elected officials have seized this issue and, for years, have managed this risk with great relevance and conviction. Adaptability is a course of action that I believe should be shared. This requirement for a comprehensive approach is the reason why a Senate amendment was passed during the review of the bill that became the MAPTAM Act, which was intended to transfer the GEMAPI jurisdiction to the local block as of January 1, 2016. This date had finally been postponed for two years by the NOTRE law, on the initiative of its rapporteur in the National Assembly, Olivier Dussopt. Such a postponement was justified by the real need to allow the territories to organize themselves in order to best implement this transfer of powers. As I speak to you, all of our country's own tax EPCIs must exercise GEMAPI jurisdiction between January 1st and January 1st, 2020, knowing that other communities carrying out one of the tasks attached to this jurisdiction on January 28th, 2014 may continue their commitments until the transfer of jurisdiction to the EPCI, and no later than January 1st, 2020. As has been said before me, the GEMAPI competence, which is part of the tasks of the large water cycle, consists of four items: the development of a basin or a fraction of a watershed; the maintenance and development of a watercourse, canal, lake or water body, including their access; protection against flooding and against the sea and the protection and restoration of sites, aquatic ecosystems and wetlands as well as riparian forest formations. The other tasks of the large water cycle remain shared between the different categories of territorial authorities and the State. It should also be borne in mind that the EPCI competent in the field of GEMAPI will be able, in order to take account of the hydrographic characteristics of the territories concerned, to transfer or delegate all or part of this competence to a union of communes or to a mixed union. On the date of 1 January 2018, many questions remain about the concrete consequences of this transfer of competence. A first question relates to the responsibility of elected officials and the mayor's police powers. The allocation of GEMAPI competence should clarify the responsibility of the actors by establishing a more coherent legal, financial and institutional framework for the implementation of flood control measures. However, there is still legal uncertainty about the responsibility of mayors. Many fear that it will lead to greater responsibility for them than is theirs in the exercise of their current police powers. The proposed law should therefore clarify this point before it is finally adopted. A second question is related to the financing of the same competence: municipalities, like EPCI, will be able, if they wish, to set up a tax – known as the GEMAPI tax – distributed among those subject to different local taxes. However, this tax is weakened, as has been said before, by the ongoing abolition of the housing tax, which makes its foundation less firm than it was at the time of the review of the MAPTAM and NOTRE laws. On the other hand, we know that the financial constraints of the water agencies pose the problem of the sustainability of the financing of the GEMAPI competence. At this stage, it is not possible for only municipalities and EPCIs to be responsible for the management of works which would far exceed their capacities and resources: I am thinking in particular of river management. Article 2 proposes that the Government submit a report on financial developments. For its part, the New Left Group proposes to reintroduce the responsibility of the State on the state dikes, which are far too important to be entrusted to the EPCI. However, the provisions of this bill are in the right direction, as well as the amendments made last week in the committee of laws. In particular, I am thinking of Article 1, which allows not only the communities exercising one of the tasks under the GEMAPI competence on 1 January to remain competent in this matter until this competence is transferred to the EPCIs, but also to the departments which fulfil this condition to continue to exercise the GEMAPI competence beyond 1 January 2020. The obligation to conclude a convention to do so is an important point to facilitate the coordination of the various actions. Article 1a, which is the result of an amendment by Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the merit of responding to specific local situations. Article 3, which creates a welcome derogation, is in the same vein. Article 2, by which the Government is requested to submit a report to Parliament, will inform the national representation on the consequences of the transfer of GEMAPI competence for river management and, following an amendment voted in committee, of the State dikes. This provision should be noted when it is known that the decision to transfer this jurisdiction was made without prior assessment. Article 4, by making the four items of the GEMAPI competence secalable, will inevitably be a source of simplification, which is to be welcomed. Finally, Articles 5 and 6 are based on a simple observation: to clarify the organisation of the competence GEMAPI should not prevent cooperation between communities. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the four amendments tabled by the New Left Group. As I said, an amendment to the Additional Article after Article 2 is intended to reintroduce the responsibility of the State for the state dikes, which are far too important to be entrusted to the EPCI alone. Three other amendments, introducing additional articles after Article 7, are intended to provide flexibility in the future transfer of water and sanitation competences to all EPCIs with own taxation. These are essentially, I must admit, amendments of appeal, without direct connection to the text, if not the inclusion in the process that I referred to at the beginning of my speech: to adapt the territorial reform voted and implemented under the previous legislature to take account of the ups and downs of the ground, which all my colleagues in this rostrum echoed. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As you understand, the New Left Group will vote on this bill. It flowed from the source, but it's better to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u149	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u150	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "GEMAPI": here is one of these treasures of acronym whose society is fond of, but in this case an acronym synonymous with hassle for local elected officials. The "management of aquatic environments and flood prevention", a compulsory jurisdiction that the EPCIs will inherit on January 1, 2018, will in effect impose on them, no more or less, to prevent and manage the great cycle of water, to somehow master this force of nature that is water, with its benefits, its whims and its angers. The transfer of the GEMAPI is coming a long way, but it is very difficult to decline on the ground. It must be said that the technical, administrative and legal upheavals that it entails have cause for concern to the elected representatives, as well as the heavy responsibilities that flow from it. The missions relating to GEMAPI are indeed facing the great challenges of our time: climate change, with its droughts, floods, marine submersions and risks related to the safety of people and their vital needs; the preservation of the environment, of aquatic ecosystems, and therefore of water quality. Water is the source of life and our civilization. But man has not always shown enough wisdom to preserve it. It is therefore urgent today to act and implement the law, but under the best possible conditions, and without haste. The elected representatives have sometimes remained perplexed and destitute, but you have heard them, Madam Minister, saying that you would like to see the GEMAPI in a timely manner. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] This bill, co-signed by Richard Ferrand and my colleagues in the La République en marche group, is a major step forward. It will enable the territories to take more calmly charge of this complex and massive competence. It also introduces an essential flexibility and responds to an objective of efficiency and solidarity, in a more equitable distribution of responsibilities and financial efforts. This text will allow other communities to stay with the IBDs by continuing to carry out missions or associate with funding related to GEMAPI. Regions or departments, previously involved in an EPTB or in mixed trade unions through flood prevention and the risk of marine submersion, river management or the protection of sensitive natural areas, will be able to continue their action beyond the deadline of 1 January 2020. Nor should the State neglect its role and responsibility. The draft law opens up a specific way to study the financial and institutional management of coastlines, major river corridors and state-owned dams, whose national scale is far beyond the scope of an EPCI. Other important provisions change the conditions under which IBDAs may transfer jurisdiction. I am thinking first of all of the possibility of dissociating the four constituent missions of the GEMAPI which, until then indivisible, can be delegated or transferred, in part or in whole. This internal secability will facilitate their exercise procedures. The idea is that, where action is effective, it must be continued without disruption or damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u151	[[Smile]] It's revolutionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u152	On the other hand, the expanded list of actors may include EPTBs, EPAGEs, regional nature parks, joint unions under common law and river unions. The elected representatives were rightly concerned about the disappearance of these local trade unions and the long-standing expertise with them. The delegates who make up them are mostly volunteers. Passionate and dedicated, they don't hesitate to leave their computers and slip their boots to be at the bedside of aquatic environments whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u153	Rather than words, they wait for means!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u154	They are the memory of our territories, and the history of water also illuminates the present. This bill recognizes their place. It also reflects a strong desire to grant an area of freedom to elected officials: I see it as a sign of recognition of the many actions they have already taken and a testimony of confidence in their ability to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u155	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u156	The seven articles of this text will therefore help to develop a consensus road map for the protection of people, our most precious resources and solidarity through the water, from the source to the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u158	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I will quote Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition: "The ecological and climate constraint complicates public action. But this complexity must bring us together. That is what we are going to do by voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u159	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u160	First of all, I would like to thank you, Madam Minister, for hearing the concerns of the mayors and community presidents of the communes of France before the discussion of the text this morning. I would also like to thank our colleagues in the MODEM Group and the rapporteur for allowing this examination. The subject of the GEMAPI and the mandatory transfer to the EPCI of its own taxation jurisdiction on 1 January 2018 or, at best, on 1 January 2020, is an avatar of the MAPTAM law of 2014; and while one can understand its founding principle, its applicability on the ground poses enormous problems, which are now insurmountable. Most municipalities, in fact, are not asking for such a rapid transfer since they have long been involved in mutualisation bodies whose perimeters do not cover intercommunal perimeters at all, but, in an infinitely more logical way, the perimeters of the watersheds, where multiple actors are gathered. On the other hand, the departments are essential links, especially in rural areas, in the execution of these competences: thus depriving them of them amounts to seriously destabilizing the territories. Finally, the costs of this competence are so heavy, and constantly increasing as a result of the increasing risks associated with climate change and the reluctance of some lobbies to changes that are objectively indispensable – I am thinking in particular of water storage – that the presidents of EPCI do not see how it could legitimately be asked their institutions to bear these burdens alone. It was therefore high time to give some oxygen to mayors and intercommunals. This text does so through easing to which I will not extend. On the other hand, it does not solve everything, far from it. First of all, I am thinking of the financial issue, with the creation of a new tax raising a lot of legitimate concerns among our fellow citizens. Nor does the text solve the issue of governance, since, while providing for easing, it tolerates levels of complexity whose confrontation with reality will be difficult: entanglement of mixed unions, confusion of perimeters, and I pass by. It also leaves the question of the means allocated to compensation in set-aside, at a time when, within the framework of the finance bill – PLF – for 2018, the tap of supply of the "Barnier" fund was purely and simply closed in a particularly subreptitious way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u161	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u162	Nor does the bill take into account the consequences of the decline in resources allocated to basin agencies, which was also decided in the framework of the PLF for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u163	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u164	Finally, it does not solve the thorny question of the other compulsory transfer, close to the one we are talking about, of "water and sanitation" skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u165	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u166	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u167	While there are as many concerns about this transfer, you refused to return, as did our MODEM colleagues a few weeks ago. Yet the mayors are calling for a turn back. These questions, Minister, must be answered today, at least in commitments on your part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u168	We have to take action!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u169	Secondly, I want to extend my remarks a little to a more general consideration, at a time when, together with my fellow rapporteurs Jean-François Cesarini and Guillaume Vuilletet, I have the honour to lead the work of the fact-finding mission on a new stage of decentralization in our country, to the benefit of the territories. If we want to give oxygen to the latter, if we really want them to express their dynamics, their ambitions and their particularities, it is imperative, Madam Minister, that we stop the compulsory transfers of skills, which are hitting territorial ecosystems with full force, and change the paradigm to enable local actors to make a real decision, while transferring only what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u170	Yes! Finally, let us apply the principle of subsidiarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u171	In the vast majority of cases, the inter-Community level has actually reached a stage of maturity. Inter-community bodies are now able to implement territorially appropriate public policies and projects. To impose certain skills on them manu militari is to shear these dynamics. Arbitrating in their place is cutting their wings. The Government seems to be taking stock of this reality, if I believe the decisions we have reached on the number of competencies required to benefit from the overall improved operating allocation, for example, but it is late, very late, almost too late. Other adjustments are now needed, not only for water and sanitation, but also for the competence in economic development, which the departments have lost to immense regions in which the intercommunal, at least the most rural, are dwarves, moreover lacking or almost the necessary means to assume these responsibilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The lesson to be learned from the urgent need to review certain orientations is that local elected representatives must be trusted, and that they must be stopped from setting frameworks that prevent them from freely administering their territories and, consequently, that hinders the development of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u172	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1077.u173	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: - Further discussion of the proposal for a law on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention; - Discussion of the proposed law on the residence of the child in the event of separation of parents. The meeting is adjourned.
