ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u2	This morning, the Assembly began its examination of the overseas appropriations (No 273, Annex 31 ; No 264 rectified, Volume XIII; No 278, Volume VI), concluding Amendment No 927 on the additional article after Article 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u3	I have before me two amendments, Nos 927 and 938, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that France insoubted does not snatch oil and its derivatives. Although energy autonomy with 100% renewable energy is the only sustainable long-term horizon for overseas countries, it is necessary to guarantee the current supply of petroleum products to these territories, on which their energy production depends. This high dependence makes supply a highly strategic sector, therefore a prime target for the rapacity of large multinationals. We therefore call for an assessment report on the economic effects of the creation of state-owned ultramarine companies responsible for the supply of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u5	Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, you say the most important thing by saying that the ultramarine territories must move instead towards clean energies, renewable energies. On 23 November, on the initiative of Mrs Sage, the Overseas Delegation organised a conference to reflect on the role of sea giants in the ultramarine territories. The development of renewable energies and the issue of fossil fuels will be on the agenda. We therefore propose that you withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u7	The Minister for Overseas Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u8	Mr President, as with Amendment No 925, which we discussed this morning just before the adjournment of the sitting, I would like to point out that monopolies are now regulated in this area, particularly with regard to the limited liability company of the West Indies refinery – SARA. The Government's view was therefore again unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u9	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u10	I understand your analysis. We are all in favour of the development of renewable energies and, within my group, we want the proportion of these energies to reach 100% tomorrow so that we no longer use oil. However, we are far from it. That is why I will maintain these two amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Measures have already been adopted on fuel prices, which are set by the prefects, but companies continue to enjoy monopoly or oligopoly in our territories. We believe that it is still possible to lower prices there, to regulate oil products further there. We therefore ask both the Special Rapporteur and the Minister to reconsider their position until the target of 100% clean energy is achieved in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u11	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 928.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a major issue with this amendment. Mayotte is a French department. Mayotte is a member of the French Republic and, as such, the laws of the Republic must apply to them, including those relating to the reception of migrants. However, Comorians who emigrate to Mayotte are not treated in the same way as migrants who travel elsewhere in the country. The reception conditions there are deplorable and unworthy of the French Republic. We therefore call for a report to be drawn up on the budgetary cost of receiving migrants in Mayotte, which is equivalent to that provided in the rest of the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u13	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u14	Here you address an essential issue in our ultramarine territories, which are often surrounded by water and where border control is extremely delicate. You were referring to Mayotte, one could also mention Guadeloupe and its Haitian and Dominican neighbours, Martinique and its neighbours Saint Lucians, or others. However, we are here in the context of the budget discussion on the Overseas Mission. Rather, these issues seem to me to have to be addressed in the course of the sittings or in the course of a review of an immigration bill. That is why we propose that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u15	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u16	Mr President, the question of immigration, particularly illegal immigration to Mayotte, really arises. The President of the Republic during his visit to Guyana recalled a number of reflections and measures that will be applied, including in Mayotte. However, I cannot let you say that the reception in Mayotte is today unworthy. This may have been the case before; I did not visit the former administrative detention centre of the department, which was judged to be such, but I went to the rehabilitated building, and I can assure you that it is up to the worthy reception that we must reserve for migrants arriving in Mayotte. I would also like to invite you to visit, Mr President, because it is normal for parliamentarians and representatives of the people to be able to visit such structures. In addition, we are working on the adaptation to Mayotte of the Republican integration contract, which will allow to complete the tools that France makes available to newcomers. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u17	On Amendment No 928, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u18	To continue our discussion with Mr Lachaud, I would add that we are aware of these difficulties within the Overseas Delegation: we have dealt with this issue, and a report is already "in the pipes" to shed light on these situations. My request for withdrawal is all the more justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u19	Mr Serge Letchimy, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u20	I must intervene on the issue of immigration. I share your view, Madam Minister, but I welcome the courage shown by Mr.Ratenon in tabling such an amendment. Beyond the rules, there is indeed a humanitarian issue, which is a serious issue. I'm not from Mayotte, but I went there. The number of children in difficulty in that territory called for a study of the issue. You have indicated that the Government is moving in this direction, and I note this commitment. We have similar problems in Guyana; It is very different in Guadeloupe and Martinique, where the phenomenon does not exist. The issue is first of all humanitarian, and it focuses on the care of children. Mayotte has also become the 101st department of France, and the question of its development arises, given the inequalities and problems that this administrative process raises. Finally, the historical relationship in the Comoros archipelago between Mayotte and the Union of the Comoros is at stake. The Maori people have made their choice, they must respect it. I note, however, as a parliamentarian, that this subject is at the heart of diplomatic relations with the Comoros, and I believe that the humanitarian issue should not be sidelined. I therefore hope that this commitment will go as far as possible and that statements will not be kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u21	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u22	Thank you for your invitation to visit the centre of Mayotte, Madam Minister; I'll see if my schedule allows, but I'll take your word. I also take your commitments seriously. I believe that your statement commits the Government as a whole to improving the reception conditions. However, the issue of migrants will become more complicated: climate change, the proliferation of conflicts and the increase in poverty are densifying migration and increasing the number of refugees, and it is our duty to welcome the last in good conditions. The humanitarian emergency is present; She's even screaming. It is located at the borders of Europe. I will not go back to the case of the island of Samos for not having obtained from the Ministry of the Interior the answer to the question I asked them about isolated minors in Europe. There is a clear humanitarian emergency at the gates of Europe as well as in our ultramarine territories. She's screaming in Mayotte. We will not therefore withdraw the amendment. A specific report is needed to advance and address these humanitarian problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u23	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u24	I understand the interest of the amendment and in any event share the desire to ensure that people arriving on French territory receive a decent reception. I am a little more cautious about the mix of genres – which is not absent from our debates – between the notion of a refugee, designating someone who is fleeing persecution, and that of a migrant. It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u25	They're human beings!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u26	I know that the concept of climate refugee is a very fashionable concept. Nevertheless, it does not fall within the scope of the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees or that of its 1967 Additional Protocol, which France has signed and which obliges it to accept victims of persecution. The way in which we debate the subject tends to cause this confusion, which seems to me to be detrimental. Indeed, France's responsibility to the people who arrive on its territory is not at all the same depending on whether they are economic migrants who come to seek another life or refugees fleeing persecution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u27	All men are born and remain free and equal in rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u28	I put to the vote Amendment No 928.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u29	You have no heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u30	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 929.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u31	This amendment is very important, but much less so than the one just rejected, which placed the human at the heart of our debates. I regret that we have not adopted it, but that no one is worried, we will return to it! Réunion National Park is one of the very few inhabited national parks. It is a wonderful reservoir of biodiversity and a jewel of rare flora and fauna. This is a very fragile environment. Maintaining the ecosystem is a crucial issue. The question of the protection of this flora and fauna unique to the world, preserving the balance and authenticity of the way of life of the inhabitants, arises. It is necessary to begin a reflection on rules of nature conservation respecting the traditional way of life of the inhabitants, who have been present for centuries. Moreover, the Réunion National Park must be protected from any speculative attempt. Indeed, here and there arises the temptation to build a hotel or other tourist infrastructure. It is out of the question that our park becomes the prey of financial and real estate speculation, especially when it comes to anti-ecological activities. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With this amendment we call for the Government to submit a report to Parliament to assess the possibilities of integrating the inhabitants and securing the Park against speculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u32	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u33	My colleague, you are raising the crucial issue of biodiversity, the essential richness of our ultramarine territories, which contain 90% of hexagonal biodiversity. Notwithstanding the traditional urban planning rules, you care about the protection of this inhabited national park. For my part, I give a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u34	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u35	Member of Parliament, Réunion National Park is almost entirely classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This tool must be preserved and even strengthened. However, conservation does not mean conservatism. In a forced territory such as La Réunion, the Park must present the flexibility necessary to satisfy the needs of its inhabitants without excluding specific developments if they comply with strict environmental requirements. Most of you know that the management rules of our eleven national parks are clear and rigorous and that their governance includes all relevant stakeholders. The requested report therefore seems superfluous to me. I propose that you withdraw your amendment, honourable Member. Otherwise the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u36	Mrs Huguette Bello, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u37	As the elected representative of La Réunion, I would like to reiterate my opposition to the change in the status of the National Park, which would make it a regional park, which is so much discussed in the regional authorities. As for the question of whether a government report is necessary, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u38	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u39	The subject raised by Mr Ratenon is very important. We are in a territory of 2500 square kilometres, of which 1000 are occupied by the Park, and over which the demographic pressure is expected to increase. It is therefore important to find a balance. However, we must not touch the status of the Park. The discussions that we had during the examination of the law on programming relating to real equality overseas have shown that some actors want to change the status of the park, perhaps with a view to carrying out activities that could destroy the fauna and flora. I do not know if a report is necessary, but I know, Madam Minister, that we need to keep an eye on the Park more than attentive and focus our energies on it, because there is a risk of losing it. And if we lose 1000 square kilometres out of 2500, we will lose a space that is a real lung of our island. Whether a report is written or not, we ask you to pay particular attention to this park.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u40	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 946.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u41	The metropolis has its lot of large unnecessary and imposed projects, as we call them, which we have already had the opportunity to denounce economic, social and environmental drifts. Overseas communities must also suffer what I will call a predation due to the will of some promoters, the greed of large companies and, let's say, the power of some lobbies. The result is several projects, such as that of the New Littoral Route in La Réunion, which are supposed to bring happiness to large groups such as Bouygues and Vinci at first, but which are often the subject of strong opposition from local populations. Other ultramarine communities are also victims of this logic, which is not in the public interest. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our amendment seeks to check whether these projects meet real needs and to determine precisely their consequences, both on public finances and on the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u42	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u43	Your request for clarification is justified, dear colleague, but it is already satisfied. This is first of all the case under section 17 of the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2012-2017, which provides that "publicly funded civilian investment projects" with a cost exceeding a certain threshold "are subject to prior socio-economic assessment". It is then satisfied with the yellow budget attached to this Major Investment Plan Finance Bill, which provides an inventory of the investment projects carried out – as you ask – and summarizes those that have been subject to a counter-expertise. With regard to impacts on ecosystems, environmental law provides for certain mechanisms, such as the public survey, to take account of these impacts. Finally, in each territory, the convergence projects will make it possible to draw up clear needs diagnoses and to programme the necessary investments according to the established results. Since your amendment is satisfied, we propose that you withdraw it. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u44	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u45	It is also unfavourable. Major public investment projects are discussed and analysed within the territories. They also go beyond the subject we are dealing with today. Thus, the Grand Investment Plan proposed and put in place by the President of the Republic does not focus solely on infrastructure; It also concerns training. The new vision we promote will increase the vigilance of some major public investment projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u46	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 931.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u47	I will refer more specifically to the New Littoral Route. Even though this project will lead to the opening of the most expensive road in the world per built kilometre, it seems important that it be reported. As regards the award of contracts, doubt has arisen since the opening of a preliminary investigation by the National Financial Prosecutor's Office. Given the expected length of debt for this project – forty years – it seems to us normal to assess its overall feasibility and its real cost, which we must control. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Moreover, this project requires a supply of raw materials which is not guaranteed, as several quarries projects are rejected by local authorities and residents, for health reasons in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to help us shed light on this situation, which will cost the Réunion region and the State too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u49	You are referring to work already under way, my colleague. You have found that the independent judiciary has opened a preliminary investigation, which is also already under way. We propose to let him work and clarify possible shade zones and are therefore against your request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u51	Mr President, I will not comment on the legal proceedings under way, nor on the supposed pointlessness of this project, which has been under consideration since 2008, validated in 2011 and whose work began in 2014. I moved to La Réunion. The construction site cannot be stopped, even if procedures are in progress. It's a fact: the road is now half built.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u52	Mrs Huguette Bello, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u53	This is a deeply reunited project. The New Route of the Littoral is under construction, between Saint-Denis and La Possession, to replace the current road, exposed to the boulis. The cost of these 13 kilometres is estimated at €1.6 billion. At 133 million kilometres, this road is considered the most expensive in the world! Yes, the issues of concern exist – raw material supply, extraction of Andeans, exploitation of quarries – but the issue of debt cannot be ignored, which is not only worrying for France's budget. We, Réunionnais, are a poor population! Today's work is very advanced. Is it possible to leave the works already built, sometimes inaugurated, in the state? Personally, I am dubious about this request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u54	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u55	We do not ask at any time to stop this project, because it is very committed and several hundred million euros have already been spent. We are simply asking for a report to assess the purpose and feasibility of this project. Is there a way to revise its cost, to correct things? The people of Réunion are now wondering if this project can be completed. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It would be unrealistic for us to ask for the project to be stopped, but there are still questions that arise today. The state, which invests public money, the people of the region who finance this project, have the right to know, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u56	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 935.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u57	The emotion generated by cyclone Irma was strong. You all know that global warming will strengthen this kind of phenomenon. A UN report has recently shown that the warming trajectory is at 3.5°C, far from the international targets set at 2°C and even more so from the desired 1.5°C target. Unfortunately, these phenomena will worsen, resulting in financial and human costs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we believe that it would be interesting to establish an architectural charter that would allow the urbanization of the overseas regions to be incorporated into a dynamic of respect for the landscapes and the environment. Furthermore, this charter would allow the architectural styles typical of each territory to be preserved, as well as to establish precise specifications for adapting construction projects to the particular constraints of the overseas regions, such as the prevention of the risks associated with earthquakes or weather events.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u59	You are referring to an essential problem in our territories, since the overseas countries are subject to cataclysms of cyclonic, seismic and sometimes volcanic nature. But each of the ultramarine territories has a particular specificity. Within the framework of the Overseas Assises, it would be desirable to allow people, beyond the Government, to express themselves in order to give their opinion, their vision. So, must we now build houses or rather hotels on the coast of Saint-Martin? The Assises will allow for a territory-specific approach, and much broader than a simple government report. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u61	You are right, Mrs Panot, we must preserve architectural styles overseas, and your idea of a charter could be taken up in the ultramarine territories. These issues are at the local level, urban planning and planning documents. Some of them have also integrated the architectural issue. Your proposal is not part of the Overseas Mission. I would therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u62	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u63	Dealing with respect for the local environment in order to adapt the constructions to the best is a matter of common sense. However, it seems unrealistic to me to establish a charter in three months. I therefore consider this amendment to be an appeal amendment. The President of the Assembly has announced the establishment of a specific mission for the management of climate events, which will also have to cover the issues of reconstruction and adaptation of buildings to the climates of our territories. This is mainly a matter of spatial planning policies. For this reason, and because the deadlines are not realistic, we will not support this amendment, although we agree with your proposal on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u64	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u65	In view of the constraints imposed on us by Article 40 of the Constitution, which prohibits us from making concrete proposals, this amendment seeks, you will understand, to draw everyone's attention to the particular place that architecture and urban planning must now occupy in the overseas departments and territories, as a result of the worsening of the climate crisis. This report is not exclusive to any other good intention. But there is an urgent need for policy makers and the Government to address this issue. Earlier, Jean-Hugues Ratenon referred to the Littoral road, whose construction site raises questions related to climate change. Thus, does the design of this book take into account extreme weather events – which does not mean that the road has to be dismantled to deal with it? When gravel extraction was planned, was there any reflection on the scarcity of sands and gravel on the planet, a serious phenomenon to the point that 75% of the beaches might have disappeared by the end of the century? Architectural questions refer directly to the existence of upstream channels. Our colleague referred to Guyana. Why did you have to wait so long for a professional wood school? Wasn't Guyana the place where shingles were most used, with the intelligence and architectural know-how we know? We've replaced all this with concrete and corrugated sheet metal, and it's a disaster! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You can't decide to change architecture if you don't have upstream material productions. Is it satisfying to see that from the lycée of Cayenne barely inaugurated, stones fall down because no one thought at the time that Guyana was a wet department? One could multiply examples, such as that of the rectorate in Martinique. These are hot questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u66	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u67	This amendment, which I understood to be an appeal amendment, raises a substantive question. We've always built on our territories as if we were in the Creuse or the Hautes-Pyrénées. As a result, when it's hot, you choke; When the sun shines, it's dark in our apartments and we turn on the lamps. It is a total countersense for home comfort and energy savings! We need to go beyond the idea of a charter. We need to mobilise research and development, foster a new approach to local materials, and develop new channels. It also means supporting our schools of architecture, bringing back the young architects who form elsewhere. There is a niche around tropical architecture in our territories. It is a global issue that must be taken together, for the well-being and protection of our people, for the economy and for sustainable development. Present in La Réunion for years, the school of architecture is now threatened by other legitimate initiatives, particularly in Mauritius. In the territories, we must use these leverage effects to support architecture schools and specialized high schools. It is by forming a new generation on new jobs that we can propel our territories towards a better future, at least we hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u69	Mr Serge Letchimy, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u70	This is a good amendment, but the wording tends to confuse several issues. Parasismic standards exist and must be met for any construction of a new building. The question to be asked is that of spontaneous construction, self-construction, which should be accompanied. The vernacular architecture is the work of the poorest, of these "architects with bare feet", who built their own house. It's informal architecture, but it's architecture anyway. You refer to adaptation to climatic and geological constraints. Yes, some boxes remained standing when European villas exploded. This means that there is an intelligence of natural construction. The bioclimatic system allows winds to cross the building. It was not because Western construction methods were copied and pasted that the problem was resolved. We were satisfied with a modernity that completely ignored the very essence of the heritage, the resistance to cyclones. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The Government should consider those details. It is not a question of giving lessons on the ground and ordering such architectural regulations, but of reintroducing traditional building dynamics in the face of climate change. I invite the Government to consider the proposal contained in this very good amendment very closely. It is good to want to repair hundreds of millions of euros, but it is even better to invest upstream to enable local resilience, based on a culture of appropriation, to express itself better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u72	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u73	The issues you have raised are the subject of my working group with the Minister of Housing. We saw how great the resilience of the overseas territories was and how, in Saint-Martin, it had saved many lives. I believe in the resilience of the overseas territories, the importance of certification of local materials. We do not build in the overseas territories as we build elsewhere, in the mountains or in Paris. But the question is not always specific to the overseas territories either. We need to think more about standards in order to understand how European and national standards must now adapt more to the climatic conditions of the territories and to their traditional architecture. We are fighting today. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I would like to hear everything, but it has been a long time since these subjects should have been dealt with. Today, I'm wearing them, with others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u74	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 936.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u75	At the end of the discussion of this series of amendments, we realize how difficult it is to move the lines. However, an evolution would be necessary if our territories were to flourish as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a reality that the overseas air service is subject to a situation of oligopoly, the effects of which are harmful, if not toxic, for the ultramarine territories, in particular because they hinder mobility. Some prices are amazing. Thus, at equal distance, the airline ticket between Paris and La Réunion is the one whose cost, compared to the kilometer, is the highest. It should be remembered that this was the only ticket whose price did not decrease due to the significant drop in the price of oil. There would be reason to wonder about the practices of airlines serving the ultramarine destinations of France and benefiting from public aid through the territorial continuity financing budget. That is why we are asking for an information report not only on the cost and savings of controlling air fare prices, but also on the oligopoly situation in the air sector. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Territorial continuity, paid by taxpayers, should not be used as an excuse for unfair prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u77	You are raising an essential problem facing our territories, Mr. Ratenon. Candidate Emmanuel Macron seized it and included territorial continuity overseas in his program. Taxpayers are not the only ones to pay for these transports, as the government finances 6 million tickets each year. It would be useful to take a closer look at this oligopolistic situation which, moreover, has already been crossed by some judicial epilogues of agreement. The Government stands at the bedside of this case. The President of the Republic has made a commitment and the subject will be dealt with at the Overseas Assemblies. In these circumstances, as the discussion is under way, I invite you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u79	That is true, Mr President, we cannot be satisfied with the current situation in the Overseas Territories and the cost of air tickets, which limits the development of our territories, especially tourism. However, for having spent a number of years on these benches as a Member of Parliament, I can say that there is not a year when we did not discuss this issue during the review of the Overseas Mission. However, we are bound by the principle of the free market for airlines, which are not financed by the State! The State may intervene through public service delegations or assisted airfares, but it cannot exert any influence on prices. On the other hand, competition is beginning to play out, particularly in Réunion. Let us hope that all the residents of La Réunion will be able to enjoy it, as well as those who have to go to this island for professional or tourist reasons. We must engage in awareness-raising, openness, like the one carried out by Polynesia in the peaceful basin with its neighbours, or even with Caledonia. The subject is important, but the State cannot settle it alone. It must accompany the dynamics of economic development. With regard to mobility, the President of the Republic has committed himself to increasing the number of airfares assisted each year to 200,000. I would like to see a reflection on this within the framework of the forthcoming Overseas Assemblies: how to put in place this mechanism, to whom to reserve it – a young public in training, companies that are forced to travel overseas, academics, teachers, those who carry innovation projects? We will have to determine, in the coming months, the conditions for the issuance of these 200,000 air tickets. I invite you, Mr Ratenon, to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u80	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u81	I am all the more in agreement with this proposal because I myself had adopted, in the context of the first reading of the law on the real equality of overseas workers, known as the EROM law, an amendment to Article 12 so that a report could be submitted on the process of setting the prices of air tickets between the ultramarine territories and mainland France. This measure was brought together with others relating to transport, at the initiative of the Senate, to finally form Article 5 of the EROM Act. This report will have to be submitted by February 28. I hope that the Government will meet this deadline, which has so little eyebrow, so far, on the content of EROM. It is time to dismantle the mechanism of price formation, which limits the population's racket. In any case, the amendment seems to me to be satisfactory in its philosophy, and I invite its author to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u82	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u83	I'm sorry, minister, but I think you're treating Mr. Ratenon very hard. It was not for fun that he made the effort to write several requests for reports; It is because real problems arise and deserve to be debated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u84	[[Smile]] Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u85	I really enjoyed the concept of great unnecessary projects! It is Mr Corbière's right to say that there is no doubt that the ecological and financial assessment of major projects must be further developed. However, the situation of air services is truly stumbling block. Paying 800 euros a ticket to go from Martinique to Guyana is not normal! And at certain times, it takes 1000 or 2000 euros to reach Paris! On the other hand, I would like the Members of the Republic on the move to appreciate the impressive closure of this region. It is better to go from Fort-de-France to Jamaica via Paris, than to go there directly. We have become strangers to our own geography. On the pretext that we are part of the one and indivisible Republic, we could not ask for any differentiation. How many more years will we remain foreign to our own history? How does the establishment of a liaison with Brazil, South America, Cuba, Haiti pose a problem? We urgently need to organise a conference on this subject to reflect, at the level of each cross-border maritime basin, on how to free up these neighbouring countries. The problem is essential and it goes beyond the question of territorial continuity in relation to Hexagon in order to raise the more general question of regional integration. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You should have accepted this amendment, Madam Minister, if you did not amend it to go even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u86	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u87	I love the repetition, every year, of this great debate! I would like to say that we are moving forward on a number of issues that are of interest to you, honourable Member. Thus, Erasmus regional will be born, which you can only congratulate yourself on since you have carried this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u88	Thank God!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u89	We move forward where possible, when we can help, support. With regard to regional pricing, I refer you to Canada's example where international prices are much better than their domestic prices. It all depends on the game of supply and demand. We cannot make a promise that we know it will be impossible to keep. Personally, I will not do so and I will not suggest that the state can compensate for everything. In addition, the EROM Act provides for the submission of a report. I welcome this and that is a reason not to foresee others, but it must be recalled that this report deals only with fuel overload, so that no one is disappointed. The Directorate-General for Civil Aviation is finalizing the draft. We need to think about this and, why not, organize a major international conference on transport. For the moment, it is planned that the ministry of my colleague Elizabeth Borne, in charge of transport, will organize the Assises de la mobilité. The next Overseas Assises will define the conditions for setting up the 200000 airfares at assisted prices, not to mention the support measures to accompany, train. Above all, we are pursuing a policy of economic development by sea basin, which will facilitate exchanges between Martinique, Cuba, Haiti, Guadeloupe and Guyana. It is economic development that will make it possible to increase exchanges between Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Canada, between Caledonia and its neighbourhood. It'll be the same for Polynesia. In fact, the Wallis-et-Futuna and Fiji Islands are currently under discussion. The State supports these steps, it is indispensable. He's on the rendezvous when he has to. It sets up devices when necessary, but it cannot control everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u90	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u91	Thank you, Madam President, for sharing all these moments with us this morning and this afternoon. Thanks also to President François de Rugy for chairing a large part of our debates, respecting in this respect a tradition of the National Assembly. It is true that I have been through these debates more often on your side, ladies and gentlemen, than on my side. This is the first time I have defended this budget. As usual, the debates were in turn calmed and passionate, ambitious and rich in proposals, ideas and innovations. I hope that tomorrow's overseas territories will become territories of excellence and innovation. We have been able to address many issues and make all the transparency around this budget. I still owe you a number of answers, I know, because I have not been able to answer all the speakers. You will receive these explanations. We talked about housing, the SIDOM session, mobility, the EROM law, convergence plans, overseas Assises, the consequences of Irma and Maria. We are at the side of Mayotte through plan 2025, Guyana thanks to the contingency plan. We are accompanying the preparations for the referendum on self-determination in Caledonia, which will take place before the end of 2018. We are, of course, alongside Saint-Martin, Guadeloupe and Saint-Barthélemy, to help rebuild and provide answers to fishermen and farmers who have lost their production tools and will face serious difficulties. As you understand, the Government has made overseas issues a priority. We will only be able to meet the challenges before us if we bring solutions together. I invite all of you once again to participate in the Assises des Outre-mer, in your territories. Indeed, we want the projects to go back to the territories even if the Overseas Delegation will take up this matter. This is an opportunity for me to thank you, Special Rapporteur Serva, for this partnership in the discussion of this budget. I would also like to thank the draftsmen for their opinions, Mr Letchimy and Mrs Bello, for the work we have done together and for the testimonies, ideas and anger they have sometimes expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u92	Legitims!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u93	Yes, I know how eager you are to see the results of this government. This government wants to be ambitious, but it takes time to be ambitious, because we must, as the President of the Republic wishes, co-build public policies with the territories, in the overseas or in the metropolitan areas. To everyone, I want to say my commitment that, in the coming year, we can transform the models of the overseas territories and together create tools that are more adapted to the problems of these territories. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In this year, which will see the Assises des Outre-mer, the blue book we have called "blue overseas", as well as the debates on convergence contracts or on State-region project contracts, we must all live up to the task. I want to be, and I will only succeed in my mission if you are at my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u94	We have completed the review of the Overseas Mission appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u95	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u96	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u97	We are dealing with the review of credits for sustainable ecology, development and mobility, and appropriations for the annex budget "Air control and operation", as well as for the trust accounts "Aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles", "Financing of aid to communities for rural electrification", "National passenger transport services" and "Energy transition" (No. 273, Annexes 16 to 19; No 264 rectified, Volumes VI and VII; No 275, Volume V; No 266 rectified, Volumes II to VIII). The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the intensity of the demonstrations of climate change this summer, which particularly affected a part of our overseas fellow citizens, has accelerated the collective awareness of the urgency not only of making the energy and ecological transition, but also of preventing the risks inherent in our mode of production and consumption. This ecological transition needs to be intensified, both locally and nationally, and – today – internationally, taking into account the global dimension of the issue. The credits of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition thus give concrete expression to the Climate Plan presented by the Minister of State, Nicolas Hulot, last July. This plan aims to protect the most fragile who are the first victims of the damage caused by the economic development model we are seeking to emerge from. It is a cross-cutting objective that is reflected in all of the department's policies: energy, transportation, risk prevention, management of natural environments. I will mention only a few measures not to be redundant after the long work in committee: the thermal renovation plan and the refocusing of the tax credit for the energy transition, the premium for the conversion of vehicles and the support for electric vehicles, the growth of the financing of renewable energy within the framework of the major investment plan, intended by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and the elaboration of the multiannual energy programming. These are concrete and fiscally robust translations of the ambition of this government and of the nation – I believe – for the preservation of the climate and the planet. This budget also aims to support and protect the most vulnerable. This is the subject of the Climate Solidarity Package, and in particular the generalisation of the Energy Check. It is also through decisive action in the areas of health, the environment, biodiversity protection and risk prevention that we will ensure the protection of the most vulnerable. As far as transport is concerned, this is a transitional budget which marks a new stage in the shift towards daily transport and the long-awaited upgrading of existing networks. The foundations of mobility will allow the preparation of a mobility guidance law that will include a balanced programming law in terms of resources and expenditure. Finally, the credits of the social and solidarity economy – ESS – are now attached to the Ministry, in particular the main support mechanism for the development of the ESS structures, the local support mechanism – DLA – which will now be directly led by the new High Commissioner for the Social and Solidarity Economy and Social Innovation. This budget clarifies priorities and outlines the framework for action over the next five years. Not everything has been possible in this first year, and we can understand the impatience that may arise on the general tax on polluting activities – TGAP – or on the HFC refrigerant tax. But this growing budget of 1 billion euros as well as the large investment plan express the ambition of the President of the Republic and the Government to implement the roadmaps given by the Prime Minister to the Minister of State Nicolas Hulot and to the Minister Elisabeth Borne. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I personally would like to thank all of the Members who have been involved in the preparation of the various reports for their fruitful and exciting work, and I welcome the good climate that led to the preparation of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u99	Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u100	As COP 23, in which the world's largest polluter, honored with great pomp on 14 July, will not participate, several analyses confirm that the worst scenarios related to global warming are possible: the hope of keeping the temperature rise below 2 degrees is moving away. There is now concern about reaching the 3 or more degrees, i.e., a situation in which predictions are catastrophic in terms of land and shoreline submersion, drought, health, climate migration, and frequent chaotic weather events. As our house continues to burn, we continue to give priority to derisory objectives in relation to the magnitude of the danger. Following the presentation of this special report in committee, the Secretary of State replied by reminding me of the need to participate in the effort to save money so as not to pass on financial debt to our children. However, every effort should be made not to overburden the only debt that is worth paying, the ecological debt. The budget of programmes dealing with water, biodiversity, risk forecasting, expertise and meteorology, coastal areas, erosion, and the conduct and management of ecological policies is not up to the situation. All of these programmes were subject to very large credit freezes and cancellations in 2017. The only cancellation decree of 20 July resulted in a total of 93 million euros. Contrary to what might be suggested by the optical effects of the continuous changes in mission and program boundaries, the budgetary situation will be very far from recovering in 2018. For example, Program 159 "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology" funding is forecast to increase by 3.9 per cent, but at constant scope, they are reduced by 2 per cent. In fact, two new actions are being created within this programme – "Social and solidarity economy" and "Governance, evaluation, studies and foresight on sustainable development" –, significantly changing its scope. Another example is the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – which is now part of the 181 programme, which receives a grant that increases by 36%, from €449 million to €612.7 million, but, in reality, this increase will largely fund the Agency's remaining payments. Commitments on the main actions are falling: this is the case with the heat fund, the circular economy through the waste fund, or support for research and innovation in these areas and interventions on polluted soils. In addition, downsizing reaches all sectors, with the possible exception of nuclear safety. The loss of skills resulting from these cuts will ultimately have serious consequences. After weather events such as Irma or industrial accidents such as that of the AZF plant, there is reason to worry about the weakness of the resources allocated to expertise and risk prevention. The Institut national de l'environnement industrielle et des risques – INERIS – suffers from significant downsizing and a strong budgetary constraint, even though this institution provides indispensable support to the State to anticipate industrial risks. The situation of the Nuclear Safety Authority – ASN – is certainly less problematic, but this body still demands twenty full-time equivalents to fight fraud and falsification, which is still useful, everyone will agree, regardless of the position one can have on nuclear energy. Thus, the staff of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition will lose, with those of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, more than 1300 full-time equivalents in 2018. For operators alone, 446 jobs are disappearing, compared to 344 in 2017. Operators, in particular, seem to have become variables for budgetary adjustment, even though they play a crucial role. The waters are 85% polluted in France, to the point that we have been subjected to several European convictions under this heading, including the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, water agencies will be charged €200 million in 2018 and the cap on their resources may be lowered again in 2019. Climate disasters like Irma are multiplying. They are gaining in intensity, and one weakens Météo France, the French flagship in weather, the third agency in Europe and one of the best in the world. The operator will lose 95 jobs in 2018, almost as much every year until 2022, and wonders about the budget available for its supercomputer. I will come back to that by defending an amendment. Finally, the ecological and energy transition is taking place at the level of communities, land use planning, natural resource management, transportation, pollution reduction and nuisances. And we are very concerned that the Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobilité et l'aménagement – CEREMA – has been reduced by €5 million and its staff reduced by 25%, so that its staff and its Director-General wonder what the State intends to do with this indispensable tool. In contrast to this budget, and the accounting indicators it responds to, we advocate a paradigm shift in performance indicators: the performance of the 21st century will be the one that allows succeeding generations to continue to live on the planet. Hence the green rule that we advocate instead of the golden rule. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We are far from it with this programme. That is why your Special Rapporteur will deliver an opinion that is unfavourable to the adoption of the mission's appropriations and will propose amendments to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u101	I call Mr Saïd Ahamada, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u102	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have the chance to live in an extraordinary country – I think you are convinced, as am I. With 5,000 kilometres of coastline, present on all continents, it represents the world's second-largest exclusive economic zone behind the United States. This heritage, this wealth, this diversity obliges us, economically, ecologically and environmentally. The appropriations allocated to maritime affairs and ports allow us to decline a maritime strategy which, moreover, deserves to be more closely linked to what the Overseas Ministry can commit on its part. The appropriations dedicated to the budget for maritime affairs and ports will reach 211 million euros in 2018, an increase of 6 million euros compared to 2017, which, Secretary of State, I can only congratulate you. With regard to maritime affairs, there are two axes: road security and port access; coordination of rescue operations at sea. These are organized by the regional operational surveillance and rescue centres – CROSS – and their main tool is the National Marine Rescue Company – SNSM – which carried out 3000 rescue operations last year. The organization of the SNSM is essentially based on volunteerism, a French particularity that we must maintain. Therefore, I am pleased that an amendment passed in the first part of the finance bill provides for the allocation of a share of the revenue generated by the taxation of yachts to the SNSM, which will secure its funding and contribute to the improvement of our rescue service. In order to ensure that this funding is fully secured, I would ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to ensure that the €5 to €10 million of tax allocated is not a reason to reduce the €4 million subsidy paid to SNSM. The appropriations for maritime affairs fall by EUR 19 million due to the exemption from social security contributions, which we will discuss again during the discussion of the amendments. An additional EUR 19 million will be allocated to large seaports to assist them in their dredging operations in order to improve their competitiveness. Accordingly, I shall issue an opinion in favour of the adoption of the appropriations for Programme 205 and Action 43 of Programme 203. I will conclude by referring to the fight against maritime pollution, which is of particular interest to me. Today, as you know, most ships operate with heavy fuel oil, which is responsible for a significant pollution, according to a study in June 2015, of 60,000 premature deaths per year in the European Union. This environmental and health disaster would cost European health services EUR 58 billion a year. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The solution advocated by industry and environmental associations is the conversion to liquefied natural gas – LNG. I also welcome the decision of the CMA-CGM Group to equip itself, by 2020, with ships using this fuel. I hope that the State will encourage this conversion and that it will be as rapid as possible in order to preserve the health of those who live next to the ports and who deserve the interest of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u103	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u104	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to discuss the appropriations for a policy, which would require knowledge of its objectives, contours and scope. For my part, I have submitted a report on Program 345, "Public Energy Service", Program 174, "Energy, Climate and Postmines", the Trust Account "Financing Community Aid for Rural Electrification" and the Trust Account "Energy Transition". In fact, this amounts to about EUR 11 billion if € 2.6 billion of tax expenditure is set aside. The "Energy Transition" CAS alone accounts for half of these credits. As for the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – it represents 1.5 billion euros out of the 2.6 billion tax expenditures. That is to say, they are great masses. First of all, I note that the budget model is incomprehensible to a citizen who wants to know what France is doing about sustainable development. In this English-speaking garden, for example, there is a "Public Energy Service" programme dealing with Fessenheim. One might wonder how the exit of nuclear energy falls within the scope of the public energy service and not a policy of energy transition, which gradually makes it possible to compensate for developments in this field. The main funding tool is, of course, the "Energy Transition" CAS, which is apart, while it would be appropriate to have a single programme on the energy transition and to put what is not possible – precariousness, mediation and equalisation – into a major public energy service programme. In an enlarged committee, Mr Secretary of State, you have committed yourself to reviewing this budget model. I salute your listening, which is rare and, as such, precious. You are precious, since you are a Secretary of State who listens to the opposition. The majority is always listened to.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u105	[[Smile]] This remains to be demonstrated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u106	Secondly, even if we were to put the budget in a new model, some things would continue to escape Parliament. Energy saving certificates are a quasi-removal that changes the operating conditions of companies, and on which there is absolutely no debate. When we talk to these companies, they report distortion of competition. An electrician has the possibility to approach the consumer directly; This is not the case for people who run gas stations, and who have much more difficulty selling services far away from their original occupation. Finally, there is a total opacity that creates the risk of fraud. You have also committed yourself, Mr. Secretary of State, to strengthening the control of invoices. This is important because the sums involved are not small. Non-interconnected areas will amount to EUR 10 billion over the next five years. According to the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), funding for the green transition is estimated at EUR 44.5 billion over five years, i.e. half of the historic cost of the nuclear fleet. We should therefore have a real debate on the financing of the energy transition, which requires an analysis, a logic in terms of the cost of the tonne of COe. Spending money, everyone knows how to do it. The real question is how to get the best impact in terms of CO with 1 billion euros. Is it by setting up roofs, financing wind turbines or investing in nuclear energy? These are the issues that we should be discussing in the Chamber. We should also discuss the cost of nuclear safety, in order to reflect on the diversity of the energy basket with all its components. I also note the contradictions in your proposals. For example, the big losers of the energy check will be those who heat up with gas. As a result, when a person is in a situation of energy insecurity, it will be better for him to continue to heat himself in oil, while the state explains that it is necessary to switch to decarbonised energies. You have also announced, Mr. Secretary of State, that you will return to the decline in the appropriations of the approved air quality monitoring associations. I regret some delays on ISCED, but I think we will take advantage of the discussions to clarify the situation. Finally, I welcome Nicolas Hulot's exercise of lucidity on the nuclear industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u107	The minister comes back to reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u108	In this rostrum, my colleagues and I warned your predecessors that energy policy and policy to combat global warming are common sense. Nuclear power enables France to have a decarbonised economy. We cannot therefore vote on unachievable objectives here. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why I hope that in the future the model will be clarified and energy objective contracts signed with local and regional authorities in exchange for additional resources. That is how the objectives we are voting on in Parliament can be achieved in a territorial way, with everyone remaining in control of the means to be used to ensure the success of a policy to which we all want to contribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u109	Mr Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u110	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2018 acknowledges the return of a strategist State in the field of transport, a State that fully assumes its responsibilities. In recent years, funding essential for maintaining and regenerating existing networks has been neglected, even though commitments have accumulated on new projects disconnected from available resources. This has led to a budgetary stalemate of almost EUR 10 billion. It has weakened the state's voice, while actors need legible funding and high-quality multi-annual programming. Without a clear framework, we will not be able to meet our objectives of modal postponement and infrastructure modernisation. That is why, together with my colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot, we welcome the review of the scope and modalities of the financing of transport carried out with the Assises de la Mobility, particularly in the framework of the work of the Infrastructural Guidance Board. Transport policy will now be fully based on new uses by establishing a mobility strategy. It will better prioritize investment choices on the part of both the State and local and regional authorities. The pause of major projects does not translate into abandonment but into new funding phasings. This new approach will allow the long-term inclusion of infrastructure financing whose needs far exceed the financing capacity of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF. Called to be used for more than a century, these infrastructures will have to be financed, over several decades, by releasing earmarked resources, tax where appropriate, as is the case for the Grand Paris Express. This will help preserve AFITF's ability to intervene on the various projects for which the Infrastructure Guidance Board – of which I have the honour to be a member, along with some of our colleagues here – is preparing a preliminary diagnosis of the infrastructure programming component of the mobility policy bill that Parliament will be considering next spring. This will enable us to define the right dimensioning of AFITF's resources. The legislation will also need to provide new and innovative financing tools for our infrastructure. The 2018 budget is therefore a transition. It provides the basis on which Parliament can make the choice of multi-annual funding. We are already seeing that the sincerity and readability of the budget are on the table. Similarly, the reduction in the rate of the precautionary reserve provides unprecedented room for manoeuvre, as the freezes particularly penalized our program and exposed it to cancellations in the course of the fiscal year. Colleagues, far from a disengagement of the State, the budgetary appropriations for this programme will reach EUR 3.16 billion, an increase of EUR 200 million compared to the forecast for the implementation of 2017. At the same time, the budget of AFITF, increased to 2.4 billion euros, will also increase by 200 million euros, thanks to the tax revenues allocated to it by the draft finance law. This effort is primarily directed towards the maintenance and regeneration of the unlicensed national road network and canals. Competition for SNCF Réseau will also improve the renovation of existing networks and modernise rail traffic operating systems. The 12% increase in State assistance to the mobility component of the State-region plan contracts, which will reach 660 million euros, attests to the priority given to daily transport. I would point out that the State will honour its commitments to the regions that have taken over responsibility for the Territory's balance trains, by increasing the resources of the trust account that will fund these lines. With regard to TERs – regional express transport – the State must now offer the regions the opportunity to open up to competition in accordance with the fourth railway package. Finally, with regard to air transport, the 2018 budget reinforces the modernisation and deleveraging dynamics of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation. The implementation of the productivity measures of the last social protocol, which improves the ability of air traffic control to respond to traffic peaks, is to be welcomed. The air transport bases, which will be held next year, will have to identify the best levers to strengthen the territory's air connectivity and improve the competitiveness of the French flag. On this subject, in the very near future, we can all welcome the closure of the financing of the Charles-de-Gaulle-Express line, which is essential to avoid the saturation of access to Charles-de-Gaulle airport, as the Secretary of State can confirm.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u112	Mr Philippe Bolo, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u113	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing my speech, I would like to highlight the ambitions of the 2018 PLF programmes 174 and 345. Indeed, while, as we all know, budgetary room for manoeuvre is limited, the planned increases in appropriations reflect France's ambitions in terms of energy transition, combating climate drift, improving air quality and social support for access to energy. By way of illustration, the 174 "Energy, climate and post-mines" programme benefits from an increase of 19% in funds dedicated to improving air quality and combating climate change. In fact, air quality is a major health issue requiring this budgetary effort. This increase appears all the more relevant as Europe and the Council of State have urged France to reduce air pollution by fine particles. The 10% increase in energy policy appropriations should also be noted. This budgetary effort ensures the success of multi-annual energy programming and the mission of securing hydroelectric dams. I come to the 345 "Public Energy Service" program. The estimated amount of these charges is EUR 7.9 billion, up 17% from the 2016 financial year. This increase does not reflect a lack of rigour but, on the contrary, a strong commitment to support the production of renewable electricity, to increase the volume of biomethane injection, to increase the appropriations linked to solidarity with non-interconnected areas and to protect consumers in situations of energy insecurity. After these few budgetary remarks, I would like to refer to the thematic part of my report for an opinion which, as you know, concerns the digitalisation of the world of energy. It is a strategic topic in the context of the issues associated with it: four of them were highlighted during the hearings. The first issue concerns the production of a large volume of data capable of producing benefits by facilitating the planning of the climate-air-energy strategy, the planning of the territory, the energy renovation of buildings and the fight against energy insecurity. Despite these undeniable strengths, it is clear that these data are still under-exploited and under-valued. The second issue concerns efficiency gains in energy infrastructure and services. Digitalisation facilitates the management of infrastructures and the optimization of networks that become smart, the famous smart grids. This intelligence opens up new perspectives for the management of an energy system now characterised by the need for injection of dispersed renewable productions. Beyond infrastructure, gains benefit all consumers by facilitating the adoption of more efficient and soberer behaviour and practices. The third issue concerns the need to secure infrastructure and data. On the one hand, individual data may create a desire for the trade opportunities they are able to provide. Their piracy must therefore be avoided. On the other hand, as interconnected infrastructures become more vulnerable, they need to be secured against cyberattacks. The fourth and final issue concerns the development potential associated with digitalization. If we have opportunities to seize, in terms of both economic development and job creation, we must not forget where we come from: France already has advantages in this area, among them the historically present network managers, who are among the European leaders, and an abundant ecosystem enhanced by French technology, structured around a fabric of startup and benefiting from the expertise of the competitiveness poles. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I will conclude with a few proposals that will allow us to grasp the potentials opened up by the digitalisation of the energy world. First, data governance must be built around trusted third parties, in order to ensure the widest possible adherence of the various parties involved in the measurement, dissemination and processing of information. Secondly, the consideration of cyber security issues needs to be strengthened with, inter alia, the most vulnerable and less experienced structures. Thirdly, support for economic actors must be programmed through support for research, development and innovation and the establishment of a national training plan. Finally, the fairness of the territories must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u115	Mr Yves Blein, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u116	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations for the social and solidarity economy in the draft finance bill for 2018 are entering the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", this year due to the transfer of the competence relating to the ESS from the Ministry of the Economy to the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. They have a stable level of commitment authorisations at constant scope, from EUR 15.3 million to EUR 15.4 million, an increase of 1% and a decrease of 5.4% in payment appropriations from EUR 15 million to EUR 14.2 million. But this relative stability masks, in reality, a sharp increase in ESS development appropriations of 48% in commitment authorisations, and a sharp decrease of 17.3% in the appropriations of the local accompanying arrangements, despite the importance of these, particularly for the voluntary sector. My opinion on these appropriations will be favourable because of the increase in the resources devoted to the development of the ESS. However, I have tabled an amendment to re-establish the funding of local accompanying arrangements. In addition, I have chosen to focus on three themes of importance to the social and solidarity economy: the establishment and future of the wage tax credit – CITS – the employment situation in the ESS and, finally, social innovation. The wage tax credit is the long-awaited equivalent for the non-profit sector of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE. Established under the Finance Act for 2017, it must compensate for the competitive differential induced by the CICE between, inter alia, associations and their counterparts in the lucrative sector. This difference in treatment has been strongly felt, which seems to be reflected in the evolution of employment figures over the past 12 months: ACOSS data – Central Agency of Social Security Agencies – show that employment in the social economy fell by 0.3% between March 2016 and March 2017 and by 0.6% between June 2016 and June 2017, while private employment was increasing at the same time. This gap should, in any event, disappear from 2019 on the occasion of the transformation of the CITS and the CICE into a permanent relief of employer social contributions, which I welcome. This relief is expected to benefit the non-profit sector from 2019 to the tune of €1.4 billion, three times the impact of the current ITSC. With regard to employment in the ESS, I would like to point out that it has a much greater dynamism than in the rest of the private sector. In 2014, the social economy employed 2.4 million employees, representing 10.5% of total employment and almost 14% of private employment. Since 2000, the number of employees in associations, foundations, cooperatives, mutual societies and social enterprises has increased by about 25%, compared with an average of 6% in the private sector outside ESS. Since 2008, the social economy has thus increased by about 6.5%, in a context of stagnation in the level of private employment outside the social economy. Employment in the ESS is marked by the announcement of a reduction in the number of assisted jobs, which account for 7% of employment in this economic sector. As announced by the Prime Minister, 310,000 assisted contracts were planned for 2017, compared to 460,000 in 2016, reflecting the non-renewal of 150,000 contracts. This decline is expected to continue in 2018 to the tune of 200,000 contracts. These decisions will have a significant impact not only on the future and economic model of some ESS companies working with vulnerable audiences, but also on the employability and integration of those furthest from employment. Associations, the first users of the scheme, have played an important role in welcoming people who are often far from employment. Finally, I have focused on the financing of social innovation, which is important but nevertheless still insufficient. I therefore propose specific payments for social innovation from the EUR 10 billion innovation fund. The social economy is a sector of the future, compatible with the need for the sustainable development of our societies. On the occasion of this opinion, I welcome the recent creation of a post of High Commissioner for the Social Economy, and can only invite, at the beginning of the legislature, a reflection, quickly translated into action, on how to create an ecosystem conducive to the development of the social economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u118	Mrs Laurence Gayte, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u119	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday COP23 opened in Bonn. The international community is once again at the bedside of the planet, and this is a matter of concern. Studies and conclusions converge and accumulate: achieving the objective of the Paris Agreement to limit to two degrees Celsius the increase in terrestrial temperatures will soon be the impossible. The urgency to act is more than ever absolute. The world must make an unprecedented energy transition in the next decade, building on, among other things, lower renewable energy prices. With regard to domestic policy, the Government presented its climate plan on 6 July. The goal is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. Moreover, through the two initiatives of the climate summit on 12 December and the draft Global Compact for the Environment, our country remains very involved in the fight against climate change. With this in mind, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the field of environmental diplomacy, has therefore focused this year on the climate. Of course, she gave a favourable opinion to the vote on your ministry's budget. In addition, it wished to make four sets of proposals in support of the very strong and clear positions of the President of the Republic and the Government on the climate. Our first recommendation concerns the implementation of the Paris Agreement. This must be as demanding as possible. COP23 needs to value the idea that 2018 will be the year of the launch of the review of member countries' climate contributions, which will take place by 2020. This must be the meaning of the facilitating dialogue provided for in the Paris Agreement. In fact, according to the IPCC, if countries' commitments are taken into account, the two-degree target is not achieved and the best approach is to three degrees. However, every effort must be made to stay under the two or even the one-and-a-half degrees. It is also necessary to rise to the challenges of how the Paris Agreement is to be implemented, in particular on transparency, especially since satellite technology now makes it possible to estimate the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere at specific points in the Earth's surface. Finally, we must be clear about the financial commitment to the countries of the South. The $100 billion a year, planned since the Copenhagen Conference in 2009, is part of the relationship of trust. France has committed 5 billion dollars a year. This is the minimum, because the estimated needs of the energy transition are immense and represent more than 1000 billion investments per year, for several years, for Europe alone. Our second recommendation concerns the European Union. The requirement is required in the negotiations on the 2030 energy-climate strategy implementation guidelines. The issue of carbon prices should also be addressed. The aim is to set a credible level, from 25 to 30 euros per tonne. The signal must be unambiguous for investors and the economic conditions for decarbonisation must be met. We therefore support President Macron's proposal on the carbon tax at borders. We must ensure the competitiveness of our companies and avoid carbon leakage. Moreover, the two main policies of the European Union, the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, must be checked for the next period of budgetary programming. The 2020 decade will indeed be strategic for the energy transition and for the profound transformation of our productive system towards decarbonisation. Our third priority is trade commitments. They must be consistent with climate goals. This can be seen with the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – CETA – signed with Canada prior to the Paris Agreement. The action plan proposed by the Government, to which some parliamentarians have contributed, contains an important environmental component. With regard to agreements under negotiation or envisaged by the European Union, the objectives of the Paris Agreement must be included in their future arrangements. In general, these agreements should serve as a lever for the greening of world trade. I also think it is necessary to develop the international maritime transport sector in this direction. Our fourth recommendation is the establishment of an ambitious and visible research policy at national and European level in three key areas: electricity storage, CO capture, the sustainable city and the circular economy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As you can see, the road to building a world with a transformed, low-carbon economic model is still a long, but indispensable one. It is urgent for France and Europe to commit themselves to this, if we do not want to mortgage the future of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u120	Mr Fabrice Brun, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u121	Mr Secretary of State, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, it is my responsibility to present my report for your opinion on the 181 "Risk prevention" programme. The spectrum of this programme is very broad, ranging from nuclear and technological risks to natural hazards. These risks are very varied, including both climatic hazards and earthquakes, flood and flood risks, health risks and invasive phenomena. Following the budgetary linkage of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – which has so far been financed by the general tax on polluting activities – TGAP –, the 2018 Finance Act provides for €854 million in commitment appropriations and €844 million in payment appropriations. In fact, however, the increase in the resources granted to ADEME must be relativized, as it will mainly aim to finance the remaining payments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u123	In trompe l'oeil, the ADEME's actual response capacity is actually reduced, with an estimated 5% decline path over five years. At first glance, this may not seem catastrophic, but it is far from the announcements to double the efficiency of the heat bottom. It is far from the means necessary to achieve the circular economy objectives set by the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth. Secretary of State, 2025, it's tomorrow! This double observation, both on the heat floor and on the waste floor, is sufficient to justify an unfavorable opinion on the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u124	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u125	Nuclear risk, managed by the Nuclear Safety Authority – ASN – and by its expert, the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety – IRSN – remains more relevant than ever. The recent tribulations of a well-known NGO show that the risk of intrusion into a power plant is not completely controlled and requires increased vigilance; I have asked you in an enlarged committee on this matter, Mr Secretary of State. Besides the risk of an attack, the risk of a nuclear accident should also not be overlooked. If it seems reasonably controlled so far, it is aggravated by climate change, which can cause natural disasters such as floods or storms, which are more frequent and more violent than in the past. No concessions should therefore be made, both on the safety of installations and on nuclear safety. In a context marked by a significant increase in the need for expertise, we must ensure, Mr. Secretary of State, that the research appropriations of the IRSN, which have been steadily declining in recent years, are consolidated. We come to the natural risks that, according to climatologists, could become more frequent and more severe, due to climate change at work. Ouragans, climatic hazards and recurrent periods of drought are there to testify to this. How can we not have an emotional and supportive thought for our West Indies compatriots, hard hit by hurricanes Irma and Maria last September? Mr Secretary of State, in view of the risk of multiplication of cyclonic phenomena in tropical regions, what measures are you planning to take? In the face of repeated drought episodes, do you envisage relaxing, for example, the regulation on small agricultural hydraulics? Our farmers and ranchers, especially in the slope and mountain areas, need to carry out small collinary water reservoirs to store water. It is imperative to reduce regulation and the thickness of impact assessments. This is a top priority for the future of our family farms. Finally, I would like to address a topic which may seem anecdotal, but which is not, that of the rapid development of invasive alien species, whether it be the Asian frelon, the pyral of the boxwood or the bacterium xylella fastidiosa, to name but a few devastating species. These invasive proliferations are all the more difficult to combat because, at the same time, legislation hinders the possibilities for combating them; This is understandable, especially in view of the precautionary principle, but it leaves our farmers, our gardeners and individuals often deprived of these phenomena – except when a biological control technique proves to be effective, as with the chestnut cynips. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I would like you to answer my specific questions on the pyral of the box. They remain complete as a result of our discussions in the enlarged committee last week. What measures are you implementing to combat the pyral du bois, which today affects eighty-four French departments and will affect all of them tomorrow? It causes considerable damage, which harms biodiversity, landscapes, human and tourist activities, and increases the risk of fire. Are you considering, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, classifying the pyral of boxwood as a second category health hazard under the Rural Code? Thank you for your concrete answers to these concrete questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u127	Mr Christophe Bouillon, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u128	Mr Secretary of State, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the support programme for the implementation of public policies of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Cohesion of the Territories, the 217 programme has, for the year 2018, €3 billion in commitment authorisations and €3.04 billion in payment appropriations, of which €2.79 billion for Title II. This may seem a lot, but it is little in terms of the actions financed. The appropriations under programme 217 cover most of the staff costs of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. These appropriations also provide funding for support activities for the implementation of these policies. It is also a heterogeneous programme, which carries the jobs and credits of three independent administrative authorities: the National Commission for Public Debate, the Airport Harm Control Authority and the Energy Regulatory Commission, each of which falls under a specific action to ensure their autonomy. As we pointed out in the vote on appropriations in the enlarged committee on 31 October, the 217 programme is an ambitious programme, as it implements the public policies of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. And yet, paradoxically, these appropriations are declining steadily over the last two fiscal years. Yes, the appropriations for Program 217 are falling. Yes, the reduction in appropriations has reached such a critical point that it cannot be offset by the rationalisation of actions, which will be undertaken in the next financial year. Yes, the easy solution would be to increase the credits in terms of both the actions to be taken and the rise of operators. However, if your rapporteur cannot satisfy himself with a further fall, he does not choose the facility of asking for a budget increase. First of all, because from the point of view of the management of appropriations, the department was exemplary. It has been exemplary through prudent, efficient and cost-effective management; It also carried out a real estate rationalization, which consisted of grouping together all the officers of the ministry in one site; a territorial rationalization with the merger of the regional environmental, planning and housing directorates – DREAL –, undertaken in 2016, which highlights the limits of operability of deconcentrated services without a revolution in usage; Finally, a rationalisation of skills, in order to maintain the technical engineering of the ministry while making savings, particularly in terms of jobs. Secondly, because, for your rapporteur, there is an alternative to an increase in resources, which no longer lies in the rationalisation of support actions, now completed, but in the rationalisation of actions to implement public policies, including so that stewardship can follow. In fact, by definition, does not the ecological and solidarity transition call for a revolution in practices, usages and paradigm change? Does not the ecological and solidarity transition also call for a rethinking of our modes of displacement, of public policy design, of interaction with our immediate environment, in an approach that is not segmented, partial or fragmented, but global and even holistic? The ecological and solidarity transition does not call for an accountability of the actors to avoid, according to Ulrich Beck's famous formula, that "the risk society [creates] a "legitimate" totalitarianism of prevention which, under the guise of preventing the worst from happening, ends up, according to a far too familiar mechanism, creating the conditions for the appearance of what is even worse. "? As I pointed out in the enlarged committee, a genuine ecological and solidarity-based transition can and must take place on a constant basis. To succeed, it must also be radical and based on three imperatives: simplification, anticipation and training. Simplifying: I mean simplifying legislation to avoid the proliferation of infantilizing procedures for actors, inefficient for the economy and costly in terms of human resources. Environmental law must be modernized. Anticipating: I intend to anticipate public decision-making by the state services through the organisation of more public debates ahead of this decision-making process; I also intend to anticipate the implementation of the public decision by establishing a genuine pact of trust between project promoters and instructors. To train: I intend to train all the players to change through education for sustainable development, both as part of an initial and continuing training given in particular by the École des Ponts ParisTech; I also intend to train every citizen on the issues of sustainable development. Mr Secretary of State, can you assure us that the Green Deal prepared by Nicolas Hulot in the context of the energy transition for 2018 will take these imperatives necessary for the accountability of the actors into account? Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm that you are well defending this radical reform, which involves even more responsibility for the actors, obviously respecting the principle of subsidiarity, deconcentrating more and giving even more autonomy to your operators?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u129	Mr Yannick Haury, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u130	Mr Secretary of State, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, our Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has examined for its opinion the appropriations for programmes 113 and 159 which enable public policies to be implemented in close connection with issues essential for the sustainable development and the future of our societies. Landscape, water and biodiversity policies are in direct contact with climate change and the dramatic decline in biodiversity. The 113 "Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity" programme brings together credits for landscape, water and biodiversity policies. The 159 "Expertise, geographic information and meteorology" programme concerns the credits of the Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobility et l'aménagement – CEREMA –, the Institut national de l'information géographique et forestière – IGN, Météo France, as well as the appropriations of the Commissariat général au développement durable and those allocated to the financing of measures in favour of the social and solidarity economy. Focusing on their operational implementation, these programmes have a major impact on many territorial actors and on our citizens, whose expectations are increasingly high. In recent years, there has been a real awareness and a sharp increase in these concerns. Great progress, long expected, has also been made, such as the signing of the Paris Agreement or, again, the adoption, in France, of the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes which has considerably changed the applicable legislation and allowed the creation of the French Agency for Biodiversity – AFB. But the texts are not enough. Much remains to be done. In my report, I wanted to clarify more specifically three aspects of Program 113. First of all, the dynamics of landscape policy, which must be more valued in all its aspects, be it exceptional landscapes or everyday landscapes. Secondly, the creation and necessary development of the French Agency for Biodiversity. Finally, the strengthening of the resources allocated to the implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, which is imperative in the light of our European commitments, the first phase of implementation of the Directive has proved rather disappointing in France and in our main European partners. As at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development and the end of the enlarged committee, I will deliver an opinion in favour of the adoption of the appropriations. I would like to highlight some important points here. First of all, I will return to the AFB, whose human and material resources are preserved for 2018. This is a very important point to be stressed in the current budgetary context. However, I would like to draw your attention to the need to increase its resources in the short term, given the wide variety of its new missions, which are beginning to take place. Second, pursuant to section 54 of the 2018 Finance Bill, subsidies for public service charges from the FAB, the National Hunting and Wildlife Board and national parks would be replaced by a contribution from water agencies, which financed until 2016 the National Water and Aquatic Environments Board, ONEMA, which has since been integrated into the FAB. Section 19 of the first part of the draft finance bill on the capping of water agency resources has been amended, since the Government was able to propose in public session a solution other than this cap for 2018. However, concerns remain on the part of these operators. The Minister indicated that work is under way on the 2019 Finance Bill, with regard to an extension of royalties to the issue of soil artificialisation. Furthermore, on the initiative of Mr Vincent Thiébaut and the rapporteur-general, our committee adopted an amendment to clarify the conditions for the payment of the contribution from water agencies in order to ensure the necessary funding for operators at the beginning of the year. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, third and lastly, with regard to programme 159, three operators, CEREMA, IGN and Météo France, are likely to have difficulties in keeping with the pace of restructuring and the reduction of the employment ceilings requested. Each of these operators faces specific challenges, but it is generally necessary to improve the readability in the medium term of the efforts required, both in terms of staff and investment. I am thinking, with regard to investments, of the supercomputer at Météo France, for which the new calls for tenders must be made now. The funding of EUR 100 million over five years has been confirmed by the Minister in an enlarged committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u131	Jennifer De Temmerman, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u132	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the programme 174 "Energy, climate and post-mines" is being examined in a favourable context for the ecological transition, under the auspices of the Climate Plan. We have the chance to carry out this difficult and essential task of the ecological transition of having a Minister of State responsible for the ecological and solidarity transition, Mr Nicolas Hulot, a federator and universal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u133	Where is he?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u134	I think I can say that there are many of us in this House, beyond the political divides, to support it. First of all, I would like to point out that the contribution of the programme's appropriations to the dual objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating global warming remains modest. Indeed, most of the appropriations – about 92% – are devoted to the social and economic management of former minors. However, in a constrained budgetary context, I would like to stress that funding for energy policy and climate change actions is on the rise for 2018. These appropriations do not really require discussion and are the subject of a relative consensus, as we have seen in the enlarged committee. This program is, in my opinion, a symbol. Looking at the objectives, this is an ecological transition program. However, I am struck by the fact that the majority of credits are directed towards the management of a "after". Born in Valenciennes, I grew up in Anzin and my first school visit was for the Theophile Jouglet Coal Museum. So the question of post-mines is important to me, it's obvious. Today, when we look at the Hauts-de-Frances, especially the former mining basins, we can only wonder about the lack of anticipation and concrete solutions to what was an energy transition. A flagship of the 19th century economy has turned into today's second poorest metropolitan area – by the way, I am glad that we did not secede in our glorious times. That is how crucial it is to succeed in our new energy transition. The recent announcement of the 2025 nuclear deadline is due to the refusal of any improvisation. However, it seems to me in my personal capacity that it is crucial to reflect today on a realistic but binding trajectory because, to keep pushing back, one ends up being caught up in the inevitable. I hope that in a few years' time such a program will no longer be the management of a "after" but a project for the future. In the context of the report on programme 174, I wanted to focus on the energy renewal of buildings, which is an essential condition for the success of the ecological transition – the best energy is that which is not consumed. Indeed, the construction sector's share of greenhouse gas emissions is predominant: 45% of final energy consumed and 30% of greenhouse gas emissions. In order to meet the objectives set out in the Act on the Energy Transition for Green Growth, it is essential that the energy renovation of the current residential and tertiary park be massiveized. Mr Secretary of State, while I welcome in my report the usefulness of the energy transition tax credit, I nevertheless consider that the stability and sustainability of this system must be improved. The representatives of building professionals interviewed last Thursday jointly by our Committees on Sustainable Development, Economic Affairs and Finance have again stressed this need for stability in order to allow the full appropriation by individuals of aid schemes. From a more general point of view, next year must be an opportunity for real reflection in order to adapt the scheme to the needs of households and to bring about an effective improvement in the energy performance of buildings. During the review of the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility" in the enlarged committee, I asked you, Secretary of State, about the possibility of doubling the heat fund as early as 2018 to support the development of renewable energies in the energy consumption of collective housing and the tertiary sector. You have clarified the Government's commitment to doubling the effectiveness of this fund by the end of the quinquennium. Finally, it is important to remember that the challenge of the transition is not only energy but also economic and social. This raises questions in terms of professional adaptation, taking into account situations of precariousness and citizen mobilization. As such, the budget of the ecological transition also wants to be a "budget that protects", in your own words, households in precarious situations must be particularly targeted in the logic of energy performance of buildings. This transition will also require the adaptation of professionals to the challenges of the energy transition, particularly in terms of training. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I conclude by thanking Mrs Camille Pagua, Deputy Administrator, and my staff for their valuable assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u135	Mr Damien Pichereau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, being one of the draftsmen for the opinion of the budget mission 'Ecology, development and sustainable mobility', I welcome the fact that the programme 203 'Land and river transport' is progressing in a balanced and well-equipped way, in particular with regard to transport infrastructure and services. Also, I can say that this sector vital to the economy of our country and to the daily life of our fellow citizens is a priority of this finance bill for 2018. An increasing budget, therefore, which is a first step, an axis for a deeper transformation. The organisation of the foundations of mobility is, I would remind you, a strong signal on the part of the Government: we need a cleaner, more supportive, more intermodal, safer, more connected and more sustainable mobility – in short, more accessible to all, more agile and more efficient. This budget is designed with one objective: the strategic prioritization of daily transport, with the renovation and improvement of existing networks and services, priorities repeatedly affirmed but never incarnate for users. I am all the more pleased with this desire to modernise the existing system, because that will enable us to respond to the negative sense of abandonment experienced by the rural world. It must be said: big projects are rarely in favour of ruralness!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u137	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u138	In the current context of transition, this broad-based dialogue on the basis of mobility, initiated by Minister Elizabeth Borne, is a look to the future, a near future. Indeed, I would like to point out that it is on the basis of the work of the foundations of mobility – which will be closed in December – as well as other work carried out in parallel, such as the task entrusted to Mr Spinetta, that the legislator will have to determine the strategic choice of mobilitys of the future. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This is a major reflection on our responsibility because we have to face the climate, energy and environmental challenges of this century, but also to set a sustainable, precise and... sincere budget vision, which is not displeased by some. I would like here to stress the priority to be given to passenger transport, but not to the transport of goods which will also have to be dealt with by the future mobility policy bill, which Minister Elizabeth Borne has confirmed in an enlarged committee and which I welcome. It will then be necessary to consider urban logistics and, more generally, the place of freight in the mobility of tomorrow. The important evolution of the devices aimed at guiding the behaviour of motorists at the time of the acquisition of their vehicle, in particular with the bonus-malus and the bonus to conversion, aims to encourage them to behave more virtuously. But above all – and it is a car-loving Manceau who talks to you – it is up to us to imagine the place of the other means of transport than the personal vehicle. It is important to favour a logic of use, rather than possession, by developing pragmatic solutions such as car sharing or carpooling. At national level, with the implementation of the Climate Plan by Minister of State Nicolas Hulot, as well as at European level, where the strategy for low-emission mobility was presented no later than yesterday, electrification of the car fleet seems essential. This will involve a policy of spatial planning, focusing in particular on the equipping of rural areas with charging stations. The Minister reassured us in an enlarged committee on the aids set up by the Government. I trust all territorial elected representatives to drive this momentum, especially in rural areas. But if we are to achieve our ambitious goal of ending the sale of thermal vehicles by 2040, we need to be more voluntary. For my first draft finance bill as draftsman of the opinion, I am pleased to be a draftsman of an increasing budget, that of programme 203, devoted to infrastructure and transport services. I am pleased to see that the budget of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF – will return to the level that would have been its own if the eco-tax had been maintained – a budget that I wish to describe as balanced, because it is. I am pleased to see that this government is putting forward daily transportation, rather than major infrastructure, which is measured by the kilometres of bitumen produced or the tonnes of metal used.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u139	Long live the TGV!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u140	This satisfaction is not only that of the honourable Member but also that of our fellow citizens, who, because of the lack of maintenance, suffer numerous delays and cancellations on our secondary rail networks. If I had been in the old world, ladies and gentlemen, I would have quoted the Alençon - Le Mans line, which suffered particularly from this lack of maintenance, but I will not. While 40% of our citizens live outside urban transport perimeters, the French are not equal in terms of mobility – this is a fact. As a result, almost one in four Frenchmen said they had already refused an offer of employment because it was impossible for them to go to their place of work. This lack of solution is a barrier to access to education, employment and care, and contributes to a sense of house arrest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u141	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u142	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The French are demanding, and the foundations of mobility, which will lead to a future law of orientation on mobility, thirty-five years after the law of orientation of inland transport – LOTI – will have to meet this requirement. The requirement is not to focus our transport policy on objects anymore, but to build a genuine mobility policy based on people, needs and values. If it is not exhaustive, I would like to draw your attention to these elements. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission, whose ambition is commensurate with the transition that we want to implement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u143	Mrs Zivka Park, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u144	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, air transport is a sector in its own right and a supporter of our country's economic activity, which contributes to the influence of France in the world. The purpose of the Annex Budget of the Directorate General for Civil Aviation – DGAC – is to ensure, within a unified framework, the safety and security of air transport, taking into account sustainable development issues. The civil aviation sector is experiencing a favourable environment, with a steady increase in air traffic worldwide and in Europe. The ACB's ancillary budget generated an operating surplus in 2016, it will release another in 2017 and probably also in 2018. It is an administration that does not cost the state anything, since it is self-financing thanks to the taxes and fees it collects. The draft annex budget "Air Control and Operations" for 2018 confirms that the Civil Aviation Branch is following a path of recovery of its accounts and is continuing its deleveraging, while at the same time strengthening its ability to invest. The financial situation of this annex budget is therefore sound – it is important to stress this. Looking closer, however, there are many issues of concern among French players in the sector. As regards Air France-KLM, first of all, the Group's management reports a situation which is not satisfactory. If the company has been generating profits for two years, it is in a much less flourishing situation than its rivals. And if Air France-KLM makes profits, it is more thanks to KLM and Air France's industrial activities than to its air activity, which is the core of its business. If Air France finds itself in a more complicated situation than its rivals, it is not only because of a number of internal rigidities, it is also because the level of social charges, taxes and charges applied in France is particularly high. It is essential to ensure that national economic actors benefit from the best conditions for their development and that they are not subjected to unfair competition. Since 2000, the French flag – beyond Air France – has thus lost 17% of the market share, from 60 to 43% of flights leaving the national territory. I would like to say a word now about the solidarity tax, the famous "Chirac tax", which was created on the basis of a generous idea, since it was a question of having part of development aid financed by air transport. This tax was to be international, but in reality it mainly concerns France and its national company, the first contributor of this unfair tax. The tax, which was to be global, was applied by only nine countries, including six of the world's poorest African countries. And most of them exonerate economy class or domestic flights, which France does not do. Our country thus participates in two thirds of the fund-raising, and Air France is the first contributing company, with more than 60 million euros per year. In 2015, already, the report of MP Bruno Le Roux established this observation and, in a report of September 2016, the Court of Auditors wrote that "this solidarity mechanism, unrelated to the air domain, has lost its ideal". This was, according to the Court, confirmation that "the example of France is not followed and leads to the penalisation of French air transport". I would therefore like to draw your attention to the need to call into question this unfair contribution, which penalises French air transport. We now know that no other country, apart from those I have mentioned, intends to introduce this tax that has existed in our country for twelve years. The situation of Aéroports de Paris – ADP – is also open to questions. A priori, the company is doing well and investments are going well, both in Orly and in Roissy. The CDG Express is finally launched, which we are looking forward to. But I stress that its development should not be at the expense of the modernisation of the existing network, or at the cost of a challenge to the realization of the Grand Paris Express line 17, which must link Roissy and Paris by 2024, via Gonesse. Questions also persist about the high level of taxes and charges in Roissy compared to the competitors Frankfurt and Amsterdam. Some moderation in tariff matters would improve the competitiveness of the Roissy-CDG platform, although we are well aware that this would be done at the expense of dividends received by the shareholder state. Important deadlines are to come, since consideration is being given to a possible divestiture of ADP's shares, which could only be done through legislation. In addition, in a few weeks you will be given the report on the future of the Greater West Airport project, and the Government will then have to decide. Finally, I would like to point out that the control of noise pollution has become imperative if the population, and in particular the residents of airports, are to continue to accept the sustained and sustained growth of air traffic. While welcoming the soundproofing measures that have been under way for years, I would like to relaunch the reflection on the possible equalisation of the air noise tax – TNSA – between airports. Indeed, while some provincial airports have already almost completed the soundproofing of riparian dwellings, the task is more difficult and more costly at Paris airports, because they are embedded in a particularly dense urban fabric. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That part of the revenue from the NST collected in other regions contributes to the soundproofing of Roissy's residents should be considered, given the contribution of this platform to our country's overall airspace and the economic benefits it generates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u145	Mr Jimmy Pahun, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u146	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, special rapporteurs and rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to stress in this report for opinion the urgency of supporting and accompanying the transition to cleaner shipping. It is nine out of ten goods that transit through the sea and, while the carbon efficiency of maritime transport makes it a virtuous mode of transport, the impact of its air emissions on human health is nevertheless a major problem. While waiting for future technological breakthroughs around new energies – and, why not, the return of the sailed navy – the best transition solution we had now is liquefied natural gas – LNG. In order to comply with the pollution standards defined at international level since 2010, French shipowners are taking a voluntary approach in favour of the LNG option, which we can welcome. Last Tuesday, the CMA-CGM Group announced that its nine future super-containers of 22000 boxes will indeed be powered by LNG. This is a historic first for ships of this dimension, and I welcome this decision here. Nicolas Hulot pointed out that this was a "responsible choice". It is certainly also a rational choice. However, this is nevertheless a risk-taking bet in the face of the need to structure fuel LNG supply chains. France must demonstrate its strengths in this area, because today's decisions can have consequences for the future dynamism of our major seaports. France is a great maritime nation and must maintain its position if it is to influence the establishment of genuine global governance in the social, fiscal and environmental spheres. In order to weigh, we need three things: first, leading ports that are attractive and capture global flows; ships flying the French flag, then; world-class groups, finally, controlled by domestic capital. As far as ports are concerned, we are now below our potential. Le Havre should be the main gateway to the Paris Basin, which is one of the first economic regions in Europe. The solutions are known: they involve strengthening the Seine axis around rail and river links and improving access to the logistics centres of the Paris region, which currently favour the A1 motorway, thus the Antwerp-Rotterdam axis. I come to the strategic issue of controlling the commercial fleets. Ms. Élisabeth Borne recalled that we have an economic flagship with the CMA-CGM group. French leaders in the sector are powerful relays of influence. Directly subject to global competition, they also face the need for very heavy investment. To support these key players, we must give our maritime policy a real readability, which brings us to the question of net water. Article 53 of the PLF abolishes the extension of the exemptions from social contributions which was passed in 2016 under the Blue Economy Act. One year after it was put in place, this is a most contradictory signal for the maritime world – I will go back to it in more detail when we consider the amendments. However, I am pleased to see that, alongside trade, there is a real awareness of the importance of pleasure and boating in the blue economy. Here too, many projects are to be undertaken. In particular, in response to changes in boating practices, it would be useful to introduce a small pleasure certificate. Another topic that I wanted to draw your attention to in this report is the challenge of deconstruction of recreational vessels at the end of life – the Irma disaster reminded us. According to the statistics, there are 145,000 of them, and this figure is expected to grow in the years to come. In order to cover the cost of deconstruction and restructure recycling systems, which are now almost non-existent, the introduction of an extended liability scheme for producers – REP – is necessary. This REP was voted in 2015 and its entry into force was postponed to 2018. Today, everything is ready to jump, since the financial guarantees have been taken, with the arrowing of 2% of the right of navigation. It is therefore no longer permissible to retreat. I repeat what I have already said before you: like my colleague Said Ahamada, I think we are living in a fantastic time...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u147	It's an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u148	... and that all these necessary transformations are all opportunities to develop new unique know-how, to see innovation irrigate our territories and, why not, to beat the cards of globalization. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We have considerable assets. We have a splendid coastline, volunteer entrepreneurs, scientific and technical skills. Now, what we need is political will and a clear course to strengthen the research effort, support innovative initiatives and adapt our regulatory frameworks. France has the means to demonstrate the full potential of its maritime economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u149	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u150	Madam President, Secretary of State – I am always pleased to see you at the bench of ministers, today in the absence of Mr Hulot –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u151	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u152	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u153	... ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be said about the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", which brings together eight budgetary programmes and represents 10.4 billion euros of expenditure. Some provisions are positive, such as the generalisation of the breakage premium and the support of modest households to replace their oil boiler, but they are, unfortunately, too isolated. Indeed, if we are to look for guidelines in this finance bill, it must be noted that the increase in green taxation is very soon to be found...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u155	... the repeated attacks on the rural world and a great vagueness of the Government's intentions, particularly in the field of transport. First of all, I would point out that all the proposals made by our group by way of amendment to this draft budget have been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u157	What a lack of openness!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u158	Only the idea of excluding the entrance doors, windows and insulating shutters of the ISCED was fortunately abandoned thanks, among other things, to the mobilization of artisans. It must be said that this measure would have been the opposite of the speech on the thermal renovation of housing. For the rest, all of our proposals to emerge from a binding vision of ecology to move towards an incentive or positive vision have been swept away. The idea of preventing an employee recharging his electric car at his place of work from being accused by the tax administration of enjoying an advantage in kind, you do not want it. The idea of encouraging companies to assign functional vehicles to their executives, you don't want them. The idea of including biomethane as a renewable energy and excluding it from the CTBTP, you do not want it. You don't want the idea of supporting service stations in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u159	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u160	The idea of including hydrogen vehicles in the list of vehicles eligible for the conversion premium, you do not want it. It's a long list. None of these concrete proposals got your favor. Instead, you are proposing a sharp increase in taxation, thus multiplying the signs of mistrust against rural areas. The fuel tax is going to rise. Starting in 2018, the price of diesel at the pump will increase by 7.6 cents per litre and that of gasoline by 3.9 cents per litre. As you know, it is in rural areas that our citizens most need their cars to go to work, as a number of colleagues have already pointed out. The car malus will also be hardened. The Government's commitment through this budget is not to promote the ecological transition, but first of all to find additional tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u161	The objective is purely budgetary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u162	We also need to talk about the financial suffocation of water agencies. On the one hand, the Government wants to lower the ceiling on their annual fees. On the other hand, it requires them to abound the budget of the Agence française pour la biodiversité to the tune of 260 million euros. This is an infringement of the principle that "water pays for water". Above all, this poses a problem for the local authorities, especially the smallest of them, especially the communities of communes and rural communes, which the water agencies will no longer be able to support in their projects to combat pollution, to preserve drinking water resources or to restore rivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u163	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u164	Also in the area of water, while all elected associations, regardless of their political sensitivity, are calling for the postponement of the mandatory transfer of water and sanitation competence to the EPCIs, the Government remains unclear in this regard. In short, you will understand that we are rather sorry by this first budget, especially since it also maintains the blur on the major construction sites: what about the TGV Lyon-Turin, the Seine-Nord-Europe canal, the extension of the LGV Bordeaux to Toulouse? We have not received a response from the Minister responsible for transportation on this matter. What is the degree of preparation of the opening to competition of the TGV lines in 2021, then of the TER lines in 2023? Again, we are waiting for answers. Ladies and gentlemen, the first five-year budget should, a fortiori in the field of ecology, be a forerunner, announce a new era, a new world. But it does not announce anything, except tax increases and punitive measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u165	Yes, he announces a tax shock!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is only the continuation of what we have experienced for five years. That is why the Republicans will strongly oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u167	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Bouillon, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u168	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of this budget is not taking place at any time, but a few days before the meeting set up in Paris to celebrate the success of the climate agreement, which we owe to our country, Laurent Fabius, Ségolène Royal and to all those who have mobilized to achieve this important objective. It is also held at a time when the alert is growing, particularly on the part of scientists: they claim that we will not hold the commitment to contain the increase in temperature on Earth in both degrees. It also takes place at the start of COP23 in Bonn at the invitation of Fiji. I imagine, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are an admirer of Goethe's language; On the other hand, I don't know where you are in the Fijian's study. Talanoa means "palabres" in Fijian. Talking is important, especially to Parliament. We are engaged in a fiscal year and we are using the figures, but everyone knows that behind the figures there are speeches and that behind the speeches there are acts. I acknowledge your desire to increase the carbon trajectory. Indeed, setting a price for carbon is essential if we are to successfully combat global warming. I give you an act of wanting to generalize the breakage premium; This is still essential. I acknowledge your intention to implement the Energy Transition Act, but I do not understand why the Minister of State has called into question an important objective set out in this Act, that of reducing the share of nuclear electricity to 50% by 2025. What I do not understand is not the difficulty in achieving this goal, but the fact that there is no timetable for this decision, although it is essential to have one. The law of energy transition does not oppose each other's energies: it wants to give their place to renewable energies. To do so, however, the share of nuclear energy in electricity generation must be reduced. This decision should not be a form of let go. I acknowledge that you want to irrigate our territories with the ecological and solidarity transition, to want to be in solidarity with the whole territory, but I do not understand why you have made the decision to revert to the arrangements of the territories with positive energy for green growth. More than 500 territories are concerned, comprising about 15,000 communes and comprising 40 million French. This is a success, because the territories have seized this mechanism: the elected representatives considered that this was an opportunity for them to make a strong commitment, with different actors, to the success of the energy transition. It is such a success that €750 million is expected to be committed in this capacity. You'll tell me that 400 million are being budgeted today,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u169	So it's missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u170	... but this is, as you know, a multi-year exercise, most of the conventions covering a period up to 2019. I ask you to review your copy in this regard to enable the territories to be major players in the energy transition. Bercy should not set the tone in this area; It is up to the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition to do so, hence our attention to all that it can do. In the field of transport, I would like to thank you for wanting to rethink mobility as a whole, give priority to everyday transport, give priority to the modernisation of the existing one and break the budgetary deadlock of EUR 10 billion which we know. However, I would like the central state and the local state to grant their violins. Let us take the example of the new Paris-Normandie line, which concerns a region you know well, Mr Secretary of State. This infrastructure project, which is neither a TGV nor a LGV, is important in terms of frequency and regularity objectives. However, I have the feeling that, for now, instead of trying to break the budget deadlock and move into this new phase, there is always a strong desire, locally, to load the boat, if I may say so. I have a very precise point in mind: it is about investing more than 1.5 billion euros on the section of about 30 kilometers between Rouen and Yvetot to win 4 minutes! Listening to the minister in charge of transport and the rapporteurs who have just spoken, I think that we must grant violins and avoid acts of this kind, which call into question all the measures you have taken. Make sure that the Green Deal promised to us by the Minister of State does not become greenwashing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u171	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u172	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, "The current commitments of the states cover barely one third of the necessary emission reductions, widening a dangerous gap [...]. Governments, the private sector, civil society must bridge this catastrophic gap [...]. One year after the entry into force of the Paris climate agreement, we are far from doing what it would take to preserve hundreds of millions of people from a life of misery. This is the chilling assessment prepared by Erik Solheim, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, in a report released a few days ago. The catastrophic gap to which it refers is that between the objective of a limited warming of 2 degrees set out in the Paris Agreement and the commitments actually made, which are very far removed from it. We must all feel concerned about the climate imperative. It must be noted, however, that the President of the Republic and the Government have taken their full part in the sabotage of the climate agreement. In particular, you have been quick to implement the CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada – even before it is ratified by national representation, while many experts agree that this free trade agreement will have disastrous effects on the climate. You have weighed on the European Union to revise its downward ambitions on renewable energy, short-circuiting the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In the hydrocarbon bill, you have multiplied the exemptions to preserve the sacrosanct right of continuation, guardian of the interests of the industrialists. You also decided to remove the Green Fund that helped Polynesia and New Caledonia to cope with climate hazards,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u173	We've restored it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u174	... a highly symbolic decision while COP23 is currently chaired by Fiji. You support the gold mine project in Guyana, against any social and ecological common sense. You are abandoning to train agriculture in the ecological transition to free it from the Monsanto and other lobbies of agrobusiness. So, you've lowered the aid to organic farming, you've allowed a new bee killer pesticide and you're refusing to end it now with glyphosate. You continue to support great absurd projects, which will be the ecological and economic fiascos of tomorrow: the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport, the EPR of Flamanville, the tunnel on the Lyon-Turin line or EuropaCity, to retain only the worst of them. This list is not exhaustive, but it clearly shows the interests that dictate your action since you came to power. You'll be responsible to history. From that point on, your budget is clear and coherent: it is at the service of the policy pursued so far, of which I have just given up some renunciations, while we need a bold alternative solution. With this budget, you continue to be lax about reducing carbon dioxide emissions by benefiting the largest polluters. However, the exemption for air carriers alone represents a shortfall of €7 billion in public finances. At the same time, households bear 60% of environmental taxes. With this budget, you give up the levers that would enable the ecological transition to take place. You are undermining many of the institutions that are essential to this change. I am thinking in particular of CEREMA, Météo France or the water agencies mentioned above. With this budget, at last, you are unconscious in the face of the ecological and climate emergency, which is yet obvious to everyone. Your vision remains confined to short-term economic imperatives, dictated by financial markets: profit, profitability, profits. That's where the real fracture line between you and us is. You are blind to the ecological emergency, as we see it as an opportunity to change society from the top, driving the economy and all human activities into a virtuous spiral. We propose ecological planning and an ambitious real investment policy that would lead to 100% renewable energy by 2050. I recall that, because you have just given up your minimum target of 50% clean energy by 2025. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] In the face of all these setbacks, in the face of all these renunciations, in the face of all this blindness, we can make two observations. The first is that "On" ecology does not exist. The few shots of green paint on the facade, made in a hurry, do not stand the test of the reality of the facts, your policy and this budget for 2018. The second is that you remain, towards and against everything, the government of private interests and large profit-seeking groups. [[Same movements]] There's a lot to bet if the climate had been a bank, you'd have saved it already. Instead, your budget for the environment is the sinking of the Titanic, the music less: as inevitable and fast, the pleasure of the ears less. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The ecological imperative is to be bold, to seize the challenges as opportunities. Despite this obvious fact, you send us, as surely as ever, straight into the wall. Your budget for 2018 is in your image: it is, of course, a new vintage, dressed in new, but of absolute archaism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u175	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u176	Madam President, the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of State said that this finance bill for 2018 reflected "the Government's ambitions to accelerate the ecological and solidarity transition, and to make the protection of the planet accessible." Let me therefore stress the irony of the fact that we are gathered today to discuss the budgetary materialisation of these beautiful intentions just after the announcement of a further step backwards on your part in terms of ecological transition. I am referring here to the decision to postpone the objective of reducing the share of nuclear energy in French electricity production to 2030, at the earliest. In the midst of glyphosate, and after those of bee killer pesticides, CETA and the declines in aid to organic farming, everyone will appreciate the gap between the wishes expressed at the conferences of the parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the fulfilment of the commitments agreed on these occasions. Certainly, no one can deny, when reading the budgetary bruises of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", that several commitments of candidate Emmanuel Macron will come to life during the fiscal year. But we will still regret the lack of ambition of this budget, which is not unique to this mission. With regard to energy and climate, first of all, you are planning a gradual increase in the carbon tax, and more specifically in the carbon component of domestic consumption taxes. By itself, that is good news. But its effect will remain limited, as many companies, large energy consumers and subject to the greenhouse gas quota regime, will not be affected. This is the case, for example, with road or air carriers, taxis, or farmers. As Éric Coquerel has pointed out in committee, these exceptions represent, for the transport sector alone, a loss of revenue for the State of EUR 7 billion per year. This is difficult to understand, when the French are asked to tighten their belts and when we are looking for relays to finance renewable energies. You are also planning to spend €20 billion on the "carbon-neutral shift", with €5.5 billion dedicated to the development of renewable energies. Would this be a simple communication exercise, since this amount includes the 4.9 billion renewable energy aid granted under the contribution to the public electricity service – CSPE? It is therefore not a question of new aid, but simply of the remobilisation of existing appropriations. Finally, nothing, or almost nothing new under the sun. Secondly, on the issue of transport, you are planning a gradual increase in the tax on diesel fuel, until its price reaches that of petrol. I would like to know, Mr Secretary of State, whether you have made any adjustments for our overseas territories, which suffer from prohibitive fuel tariffs, even though the purchasing powers are far less than those observed in hexagon. Otherwise, you would risk inflaming these territories, which still have in mind the strong mobilizations of 2008 and 2009, which forced the state to impose a reduction in the price at the pump of 50 cents of euros per litre, especially in Guyana. This same need for adaptation will certainly be the case for the conversion premium aimed at encouraging households to abandon the oldest vehicles, since, according to a formal parallelism, the prices observed on the vehicle market are significantly higher than in the hexagon, with additional costs of 8% to 30%. As regards the 2.4 billion you are planning to inject to modernise daily transport, this is also a semi-good news, in that the vast majority is a recycling of existing appropriations and that the account is not in view of the immense needs identified to modernise the rail network and make it attractive. Finally, the premium for the purchase of an electric bicycle simply disappeared, whereas it was a serious alternative to the individual car in a peri-urban environment, at a time when the need to drive the car out of congested centres seems to be a consensus. That's too bad. With regard to the energy efficiency of buildings, we welcome the maintenance of the energy transition tax credit and the generalisation of the energy cheque, which, however, will have to be greatly improved, given the ever-increasing share of energy and heating for the most modest households. We are also asking ourselves questions about the appropriations allocated to the National Housing Agency – ANAH – which, while growing by €110 million, seems to us to be unambitious in terms of the presidential commitment to renovate 75,000 housing units per year. In these circumstances, it is difficult to see how the ANAH would deploy in the overseas territories, as announced by your colleague from rue Oudinot, Mr Secretary of State, and thus compensate for the drastic decline in the appropriations allocated for the renovation of the buildings in our territories, which is currently moving to the single budget line. I would also like to express my regret at your volte-face on the extension of the tax on financial transactions to infra-day operations, which we voted unanimously last year and which could have brought in between EUR 2 billion and EUR 4 billion, which is not negligible in these budgetary times, you will surely agree. You will have understood, Mr Secretary of State, that the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not be able to support you on this budgetary mission, which is definitely not up to the ambitions you have set out. In conclusion, I would like to express my appreciation for the adoption by the Senate of an amendment defended by your majority, which adapts your hydrocarbon bill to Guyana's institutional requirements. There is no doubt that in these circumstances we will be able to continue the debate more calmly in the very near future in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u177	The next speaker is Mr Vincent Thiébaut, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u178	As a first-hour walker, I participated in the presidential program. From the first hour, in terms of ecology, the course was set: carbon neutrality was to be achieved in 2050, and France was to become one of the leaders in the energy, ecological and solidarity transition. But it must be noted that today we are not on the right path. There is a need to change methods and approaches. The Government has made clear its ambition in the framework of the multi-year plan, which provides for an investment of $20 billion over five years to accelerate the ecological and solidarity transition, and, above all, to make it accessible to all throughout France. This will is reflected in the budget for 2018, which is a transitional budget, as there is a need for a change of methodology and adaptations. It is also reflected in the restructuring and consolidation of certain agencies and operators, whose tasks are being rethought. But it is mainly reflected in the over 3.9 per cent increase in the Mission's budget of $10.4 billion. This budget is realistic, responsible and sincere. Sincerity means admitting that certain promises cannot be fulfilled, notably that of reducing the share of nuclear power in electricity generation to 25 per cent by 2025. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to Minister Nicolas Hulot for this courageous and sincere act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u179	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u180	In the budget for this mission, I would like to highlight the 36 % increase in ADEME's appropriations, which will enable us to meet the commitments made and to start new intervention programmes. With regard to transport, I welcome the objective of renovating, modernising and making all road and rail infrastructure safer. In fact, I am astonished by the position of our friends, the Republicans, who complain about both the abandonment of rural life and our willingness to engage in major programmes. You have to make choices in life. Finally, I welcome the €5 million increase in the budget allocated to biodiversity. However, the most important feature of this budget is the refocusing of tax measures on the most modest households. I am thinking in particular of the generalisation of the energy cheque, which will benefit more than 4 million households in France. Similarly, the automobile conversion bonus is a major step forward. A modest household will be able to equip itself with a less polluting vehicle, even second-hand vehicles, with a premium of up to 2000 euros. For example, for a pre-owned vehicle of 3500 euros, the household will only have to pay 1500 euros. It had never been done. The objective is simple: to get out of the French fleet 500,000 polluting vehicles within five years. Mr Minister, this budget is, of course, a transitional budget, which will be strengthened in the years to come, but it is responsible and takes into account all environmental, economic and, above all, social issues, because good environmental policy is a policy accepted by all and which leaves no one at the edge of the road. That is our commitment. As you understand, we will vote for the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". However, we will be vigilant on some points, because we are here to ensure that the commitments of presidential and legislative campaigns are fulfilled. In particular, we expect the Government to set a clear path for doubling the heat fund, even though an increase of €5 million is expected today. We also want to maintain the premium for the purchase of an electric bicycle, even if the market has reached a certain level of maturity, but with a focus on the most modest households. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr. Secretary of State, you can count on our support and commitment to honouring the commitments made.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u181	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u182	Secretary of State, on behalf of my colleagues, I welcome the presentation of your department's budget. It is a sincere and ambitious budget. It embodies real ruptures, certainly insufficient, but one would have to be blind to not see. I will not dwell on the transport aspect: it reflects the guidelines you announced in July. The increase in the budget of the Transport Infrastructure Financing Agency reflects the priority given to the maintenance of existing infrastructure. That said, the real meeting on this subject is not the finance bill, but the mobility policy bill, scheduled for the first half of 2018, and the investment programming, which has waited too long. In this respect, I welcome the consultation carried out within the framework of the foundations of mobility. I hosted one of the workshops this morning, and I can testify to the quality of the process. There is no doubt that 2018 will be a pivotal year in this context. In view of the stakes, let us remain over-optimistic in this area. On the energy transition side, without surprise, the guidelines of the Climate Plan, presented in July, are included in the budget. Energy cheque, emphasis on the conversion bonus, increased support for renewable energies, reinforcement of the bonus-malus... Many commitments go in the right direction. I repeat that the increase in the carbon tax – which was not won in advance – in the context of a very ambitious trajectory as well as the alignment of diesel taxation with that of petrol mark a real break: there will be no change in our practices if we do not internalise the environmental costs involved, particularly that of carbon, in our trade. As COP23 opens – the islands' COP, and I recall that we have a fifth of the world's atolls – and that the commitments of the Paris Agreement are insufficient, it is only with this type of action, particularly at the national level, that we will move forward. I shall therefore call this budget a first step. However, let us be clear about the very timid nature of certain actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u183	That's the least we can say.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u184	The resources allocated to ADEME in the framework of the heat fund are very insufficient. Our colleagues say that they will ensure that the commitments of the President of the Republic are fulfilled: we will remind them! The promise of doubling this fund is not close to being kept, far from it. Renewable heat targets – half of our renewable energies – will never be achieved if we do not significantly increase the ADEME's heat base.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u185	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u186	And we will continue to shed tears of crocodiles by seeing the nuclear continue its good life... You choose to plan the energy transition tax credit on doors and windows by explaining that it is expensive and not efficient: the string is a little big, we don't do it! Of which, but you suggest that the device will evolve in 2018 to change again in 2019: this would be a serious mistake. I hope that the Government will return to this issue and provide us with a stable mechanism in the coming years, otherwise the thermal renovation has died. As far as water agencies are concerned, there too, the planing that is being imposed on them is a fault. We have avoided a crunching – although hell nests in the details... In any case, for 2018, there is a red line that we will not accept to cross because it is the communities and taxpayers who will pay the bill. On the bonus to buy an electric bike, let's pay attention to the signal sent. We will come back to that when we consider the amendments. Finally, for those who are driven by Bercy explaining that the means are lacking, I would like to remind you that carbon credit today brings in 8 billion and will ultimately bring in 20 billion. These means must be targeted primarily on energy transition, development aid – 0.55% of gross national income at the end of the quinquennium, i.e. +1.2 billion per year – and household protection, otherwise these efforts will be rejected by our fellow citizens. This is not the case today. [[Applause on the benches of the LC and REM groups]] I hope that the discussion of the amendments will give us an opportunity to correct the weaknesses I have mentioned. However, I wanted to highlight the first good steps in this budget that we will have the pleasure of voting on.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u187	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u188	Thirty years. For thirty years now, the words "global warming" have been used for the first time, thirty years of alerts and concerns that we are taking into account today. In a constrained budgetary context, inherited from decades of slippage of public spending, some of which, on these banks, are somewhat responsible, we must actually make choices and know how to explain them. Despite this difficulty, we can see from reading this budget that French society is resolutely embarking on an irreversible energy and ecological transition. This priority is more than vital: on 31 October last, the UN environmental leader warned about the catastrophic gap between national commitments to limit greenhouse gas emissions and the reductions that would have to be made to maintain warming below 2 degrees, as foreseen in the Paris Agreement. In order to implement this policy, COP23 opened last Monday. Between climate imperatives and political hurdles, this openness came under pressure. It should be noted that France is at the forefront of the fight against global warming, as shown by the increase in funds allocated to the "National, European and International Actions for Sustainable Development" programme. The mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", which we are looking at today, is therefore particularly important, in that it specifies the French strategy for sustainable development. On the issue of transport, the MODEM Group welcomes the creation of the mobility foundations, which pay particular attention to the transport of daily life, particularly in landlocked and peri-urban rural areas. The budget of the Transport Infrastructure Financing Agency is increasing to €2.4 billion. I am pleased that the Agency's funding is focused on the maintenance and regeneration of existing networks. Let us take this opportunity, Secretary of State, to demand that operators deploy to 100 per cent of the territory of 5G, necessary for the proper functioning of the autonomous transports of tomorrow. However, I would like to draw your attention to three points – there are always "but"... The first concerns ISCED: all the interventions referred to it, and we have discussed it at length in the enlarged committee. While the inadequate energy performance of buildings is responsible for 20% of greenhouse gas emissions and 40% of final energy consumption in France, ISCED has become one of the main public incentives for taxpayers to undertake energy renovations in their homes. However, it suffers from several shortcomings, which led the President of the Republic to announce its transformation into a bonus mechanism, which we approve and whose payment will be contemporary to the realization of the work from 2019. The ISCED is therefore extended for one year to ensure the continuity of public support for the energy renovation of housing. However, it will be refocused, with the gradual exclusion of the installation of doors and windows of the device. My group has been concerned about this sudden exclusion which does not allow the companies concerned to prepare for their exit from the tax credit. The almost unanimous adoption by the groups of our amendment proposing an additional three months for the refocusing of the ISCED is welcome. It is important that this gradual exit of the device be maintained. However, I would like to reiterate my concerns about the exclusion of thermal insulation materials from glass walls of insulating shutters or entrance doors facing the outside. Let's find a place for them in the future system in order to protect the wood industry and to accompany the sector's research on openings. The second issue concerns the hot fund, which the President of the Republic committed to double during the presidential campaign. In order to implement this commitment, my group will defend an amendment aimed at gradually doubling the ADEME heat fund, which will enable us to meet the targets for the additional production of renewable heat and those set for 2030 by the law on the energy transition for green growth. Finally, I regret that national representation has not been able to hold a substantive debate on the vehicle conversion premium, although it is understandable that the regulatory route has been chosen. We share the goal of gradually getting diesel vehicles out of the fleet. We would therefore have liked to propose that the conversion premium be limited to purchases of a new or used car with a Crit'air 0 and 1 vignette. It seems appropriate to exclude vehicles with a Crit'air 2 vignette from this device. It is also necessary to take into account a territorial reality, in particular that of rural areas, where the car is in control for lack of better. The use of electricity for the inhabitants of these territories is distant and, in order not to penalise them, aid for the purchase of hybrid petrol vehicles should be preferred to diesel. To this end, propose, Mr. Secretary of State, a reassessment of the gasoline hybrid premium so that it recovers its 2017 amount. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Despite its limitations, this budget is more than beneficial for France's ecological transition. That is why the MODEM and related groups will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u189	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u190	We are asking for a suspension of a few minutes, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u191	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u192	The meeting was resumed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, by correction, to respond to the spokespersons of the groups, if possible...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u194	Normally, in a budget discussion, the Government does not respond to the group's spokespersons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u195	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u196	You will be able to respond to them as the amendments are discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u197	I am very saddened by this for Parliament, Madam President, but I very much agree with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Forgive me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u198	Thank you, Secretary of State, you will have the opportunity to provide these answers to our assembly. We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The first question is asked by the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents. Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u199	Mr Secretary of State, it is a real pleasure to be able to address you today. The mission budget for Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility includes funding for regional natural parks and national parks. I would like to draw your attention to the Cevennes National Park, the only national park inhabited in France: while the site has been classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, it has to face significant operating costs, particularly in agropastoralism. It is necessary to strengthen this public institution, which needs operating and intervention funds to carry out its mission. In addition, the Mission's budget blue mentions fifty-one regional nature parks. However, it seems to me that 2018 will be marked by the creation of a fifty-second park, the regional nature park of Aubrac. Are the operating and intervention appropriations for this new joint union provided for?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u200	That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u201	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u202	If I have not had the opportunity to respond to the spokespersons of the groups, I have at least the pleasure to respond to Mr Morel-à-L'Huissier, whose attachment to rural life I know. Indeed, parks are major, consensual, useful and effective tools for sustaining public environmental policies, with a view to reaching out to the population, local elected representatives and the agricultural world. I know it's important in your territory, Mr. Morel-à-l'Ouissier. You first ask me about the Cevennes National Park. I am not the greatest of specialists, honourable Member, but I am pleased to reassure you and confirm that the staffing of this park will be fully maintained in 2018. Moreover, if the classification by UNESCO is a huge plus for the Cevennes National Park, that goes without saying, it has no regulatory or legislative impact on the calculation of the allocation. I repeat, these appropriations are sanctuarized. You also mentioned the Aubrac Regional Natural Park. I would like to take this opportunity to publicly commend the initiative taken by the two regions concerned. The procedure is still under way: it seems to me that all the municipalities, communities of communes and departments have recently deliberated, the ministry has issued a favourable opinion and I am confident that the creation of the park can be formalized early next year. As for the more comprehensive issue of park funding, we will have the opportunity, if you agree, to come back to it in the course of the discussion of the amendments. We have just wanted to consolidate and secure the financing of all the parks: once again, it is a useful tool, which needs to be developed and not damaged. I think we will join on this issue, regardless of our trends and convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u203	The second question is raised by the Republic on the move. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u204	Secretary of State, our planet is at a breaking point. Recently, the United Nations has alerted us to a catastrophic situation: the commitments of states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions do not allow us to maintain the course we set ourselves in order to limit global warming to 2 degrees. Time is short, but it is not too late to make France an exemplary nation, which keeps its promises. Together and now, let us empower ourselves to address energy challenges. It is precisely the purpose of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", which pursues the objective of an ambitious and pragmatic policy for energy and climate. Pragmatic, because it aims first to improve the existing one, by promoting the thermal renovation of the buildings. Ambitious, because it aspires to a profound transformation of our energy mix, accompanying the rise in renewable energies. Today, the share of green production in our energy mix is 16%. The goal is to reach 32% by 2030. This requires measures to simplify the regulatory framework, but also a policy of financial support for wind farms, photovoltaic farms, hydropower plants and geothermal installations. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Minister, in light of the 2018 budget, can you state the ambitions, means and concrete measures you are taking in terms of energy mix and renewable energy deployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u205	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u206	Mr President, it is not easy to answer your question in two minutes. I will concentrate on the release of renewable energy, since I imagine that we will have the opportunity to look back on the more global trajectory of the energy mix, and in particular on the preparation of multiannual energy programming, when we consider a number of amendments. In order to free up renewable energies, we want to take two sets of measures. Some are included in this finance bill. Others do not necessarily depend on financial, fiscal or budgetary tools, but rather on regulatory standards or release measures to which I will return in a moment. In the context of this finance bill, one element has been recalled by a number of stakeholders, which allows me to respond indirectly: by giving carbon a real cost, the carbon trajectory has the merit of directing investments towards renewable energies and enhancing the competitiveness of companies in this sector. I am surprised to have heard on a number of benches criticism of the increase in the price of diesel, when all the candidates in the presidential election had proposed to increase the carbon tax...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u207	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u208	... in order to respect the commitments made by France since Jacques Chirac's famous phrase "Our house burns and we look elsewhere". Some double speeches are hard enough to listen to. We plan to fund new non-renewable energy generation facilities through calls for projects and maintain electricity buyback rates. We also want to improve energy performance thanks to a true sobriety trajectory: we know that the electricity of the future is the one we will no longer consume! And there's everything we're going to do about the energy performance of buildings in the big investment plan, the energy transition tax credit and energy certificates – all of which have been extensively discussed in the enlarged committee. As for the measures that go beyond the finance bill, they will cover various topics: simplification and adaptation, the local acceptability of renewable energies such as methanization and wind energy – as the working group that I set up at the national conference of territories does – crowdfunding, the impact of IFER, the simplification of procedures – I am thinking of repowering in the wind energy field – or finally the tools of competitiveness, particularly for methanization, at a time when our farmers need to diversify their revenues. So, as you can see, this is an important trajectory for the entire quinquennium and will mobilize all the energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u209	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u210	I call the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", listed in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mr Daniel Labaronne to support Amendment No. 670.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u211	This amendment, which goes hand in hand with my amendment No 639 after Article 54, concerns the financing of the National Road Committee – CNR. The CNR is a French economic observatory of the road freight transport market which collects, analyses and disseminates economic information useful to carriers and public authorities. Its work is mainly aimed at enterprises, with particular attention to SMEs and TPEs, knowing that 80% of the 35,000 enterprises in the sector have fewer than 10 employees. The amendment aims to ensure the sustainability of the CNR's funding by replacing its budgeting with the introduction of an assigned tax on motor vehicle registration certificates of more than 3.5 tonnes. Since 2000, the CNR's only resource has been an annual allocation from the Ministry of Transport. The organisation is dimensioned and missioned to operate at 1.6 million euros, but its allocation was only 1.3 million in 2017, the same amount being planned for 2018. This funding contraction no longer allows the CNR to fulfil all its tasks. In order to succeed in debudgetization, two conditions are required: to obtain the agreement of the profession and to guarantee the tax put in place. The first condition is met, because the presidents of the main road transport organisations gave their consent to this arrangement in a letter addressed to Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Transport, on 30 June. The second condition is also met, as the profession itself proposes to introduce a unitary tax of the order of 18 euros, due only once on the duration of the vehicle's detention. With a forecast of 89000 vehicles registered in 2018, the expected product would be in the order of 1.6 million euros. I also point out that one of the measures of government policy initiated in 2016 by Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of the Economy, was precisely to secure the financing of these professional committees. He then indicated that the replacement of budgetary allocations with assigned taxes was a good solution. Finally, this amendment would save the state 1.3 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u213	Mr Labaronne, you are proposing to replace budget appropriations with an assigned tax: a stamp duty on the issue of motor vehicle registration certificates of more than 3.5 tonnes. This first amendment raises a difficulty. We are looking at the Mission's appropriations before the additional items, and it is therefore difficult to remove credits without knowing whether the tax will actually be created or whether it has fully assessed its level of performance. In this spirit, it is imprudent to completely remove the budget envelope in 2018, while the level can be adjusted as a result of the budget discussion – we will come back to it later – or when the 2018 budget is implemented. Subject to the explanations of the Secretary of State, I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u215	Mr Labaronne, I would like to reassure your interlocutors from the outset: security is secured, because the appropriations allocated to the Committee are maintained, with the euro, for next year. I understand the interest that you see in debudging that you propose: once the tax is affected, the security of the device would be acquired... What is not, moreover, true, because what Parliament can do can, and is happy, undo it: this security is therefore quite virtual. Above all, as you have noted since the beginning of our work in this House, under the leadership of Mr Gérald Darmanin, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, and under the benevolent and rigorous look of the finance commissioners, we are trying to present a budget model that is as legible as possible – Mr Aubert referred to it just now. We are, by definition, careful to rebudget what we can. So let's avoid reverse movements. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment. You do, however, give me the opportunity, Mr. Labaronne, to reassure you and also reassure your interlocutors about the Sanctuary of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u216	Mr Labaronne, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u217	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u218	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 537.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u219	Mr Secretary of State, I address you in particular, because the purpose of this amendment is to enable the State to fulfil its commitments. As you know, the previous government, a few months ago, has signed agreements with 500 territories – communities of communes, countries or centres of territorial and rural balance – related to the concept of "positive energy territory for green growth" – TEPCV. Firm commitments have thus been made by the State, amounting to €750 million. So far, in the 2017 budget, €400 million in payment appropriations have been budgeted, which is quite logical given the projected spread of this funding. On the other hand, I noted with astonishment that no budget line had been provided for in the draft budget for 2018 in order to ensure that the outstanding payment appropriations to reach the 750 million euros of commitments actually made by the State were at the rendezvous. It is therefore in order to allow you, Mr Secretary of State, to ensure both the budgetary sincerity and, above all, the fulfilment of the commitments made by the previous government, and because, throughout our national territory, 500 communities are waiting for these financings, which I propose, with this amendment, to ensure that you have EUR 350 million in payment appropriations to enable, quite simply, the fulfilment of the State's commitments relating to the areas of positive energy for green growth. Even if Mr. Hulot is not here, you represent the Government tonight, Mr. Secretary of State. However, I have read the note that Mr. Hulot sent to the Prefects, to whom he requests to be extremely strict in the review of TEPCV's files. I would like to recall that these cases have been signed by the State and that it is of course essential that the State be able to honour its commitments. This is the objective of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u221	This is an appeal amendment, because I assume we will not remove 350 million credits from the "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology" program – Météo-France would not forgive us. However, this, Secretary of State, is an excellent illustration of the "English garden" that I referred to earlier. These are funds managed by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, and the Court of Auditors is calling for this budgetary ornithorynque to be reintegrated very quickly into the common law by putting an end to this arrangement by 31 December this year. This also reflects a certain lack of consistency on the part of the legislator or, at least, the Government, which opens up commitment authorizations and does not align the corresponding payment appropriations with each other. This is a legacy of the previous government, totally derogatory. The committee did not consider this amendment, but it seems to me that it is up to the Government to ask Parliament for authorization to withdraw these commitment authorizations which cannot be paid, or to draw the consequences and release the corresponding payment appropriations and, more precisely, to take a position on the future of this programme on the positive energy territories for green growth. Personally, I am in favour of this excellent amendment by Mr Hetzel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u223	[[Smile]] Mr Hetzel, it is true that the Minister of State is not present. It will not have escaped anyone that I am not Nicolas Hulot, but the Government is nevertheless represented. I know that, since yesterday's question-and-answer session in the Government, the Republican Group has been alarmed at not seeing the Minister of State on the bench, but I am sure that Members of Parliament respect the other chamber, the Senate, where Nicolas Hulot was yesterday for the consideration of the bill ending the search and the exploitation of hydrocarbons, which you have examined recently, and where he was also chosen this afternoon for questions to the Government. [[Rires on the benches of the REM group]] [[Smile]] And since I enjoy, Mr Hulot, a view of the Chamber in the opposite direction, I see that Nicolas Hulot is not the only person who misses it! Many of your parliamentary colleagues seem to be squandering the sustainable development budget, or at least squandering my presence, which, I do not hide from you, hurts me a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u224	Give us back Darmanin!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u225	You call my attention to a difficult subject and I will answer the substance, Mr. Labaronne, and to you, Mr. Aubert, because I know you are also committed to these questions. The Government's opinion will be unfavourable on the amendment, because I do not imagine for a moment that you may want to take as much money from programme 159, thus undermining the appropriations for Météo-France or for IGN – Institut national de l'information géologique et forestière. I understand that this was an appeal amendment which is intended to allow us to talk about the appropriations for the TEPCVs. This is indeed a legacy, of which we would have gone well: we have 400 million euros of payment appropriations for precisely 748 million euros of commitment authorisations – and not 750, because we are up to 2 million! This is what happens when a minister – in this case, a minister – wants to do communication operations by speeding up the machine to sign the agreements to show that something is happening when everything is not funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u226	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u227	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Nevertheless, as I said in the enlarged committee and as you will allow me to say not only as a member of the Government, but also as a former mayor and chairman of a departmental council, I am committed to ensuring that the word of the State can be kept and, during this quinquennium, nothing will be possible without it. Let me reassure you on the two points that you are raising – the fact that the 2018 Finance Bill does not provide for the TEPCVs and the famous letter to the Prefects. The letter to the Prefects, first of all, is essential, as a general review of the projects that have been launched is required. It is well known on all the benches of this assembly that not every project is worth it. This is not a value judgment: some projects are advanced, mature, solid, robust, while others are much more...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u228	Please conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u229	Madam President, I feel a lot of attention in this House and all Members would be angry if I did not answer this question with precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u230	I was just pointing out that you have already exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u231	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u232	I feel positive energy, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u233	[[Smile]] I don't miss it, Mr. Aubert! With regard to the letter to the Prefects, we wish to carry out this general review of the projects to examine the level of maturity of each of them, as we are in a multi-annual framework and must ensure the level of preparation of these projects. Some of them also deserve a close look at their legal and financial structure, which is normal, because it is the taxpayer's money and we need to pay attention. As for the fact that nothing is included in the FLP for 2018, it is simply because the solution is found in the amending finance bill: what I am saying today is an introduction to announcements that will be made tomorrow by the Prime Minister and the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, in order to find a solution to the situation of these TEPCVs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u234	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u235	I confirm that many questions are raised by local elected officials on this issue of funding and meeting commitments made under the TEPCV dynamic, which has been truly beneficial, even though it has lacked budgetary sincerity. The pre-announcement made a moment ago by the Secretary of State is moving in the right direction. We therefore look forward to the financial commitments that, if I understand correctly, will be announced tomorrow. This is something very important, because the momentum on the ground has enabled the launch of TEPCVs and it is important that the state can now deliver on its commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u236	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u237	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, for that clarification. I take note of what you have just said to the national representative. I insist once again: these conventions have been signed by a Minister of State of the Republic; It has a certain weight. It is therefore important that these commitments be fulfilled. In fact, the note signed by Mr. Hulot suggests that bureaucratic arguments are being used in order not to honour the State's signature. This is something I wanted to alert you to, Secretary of State. Of course, it is not a question of questioning your good faith: I have heard what you have just said. Like other colleagues, we will be extremely attentive to the Government's addressing this issue in a satisfactory manner, as the expectations and the issue of the energy transition are important. It would be paradoxical if the Government, which would be represented by Mr. Hulot in Bonn for COP23, did not meet commitments at three years' time and did not immediately do what could be done while setting targets for 2050 and 2100. I really count on the Government to ensure that the commitments are fulfilled. However, because of what has been said, I agree to withdraw this amendment, since the objective is not to harm Météo-France or other operators in the State: it was indeed an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u238	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 873.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u239	This is an appeal amendment. While the Court of Auditors has already pinned the obscure operation of this programme, we are today being asked to vote on an envelope without any budgetary details, and in particular without the details of the budget of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, which will be communicated only to parliamentarians in December. That is a problem. Minister Élisabeth Borne has already indicated on several occasions that she wants to put priority on the renovation of existing lines, which suits us very well. However, a major unnecessary project such as the one in Lyon-Turin, which had been put on a break, will finally be relaunched. However, it is not clear what will be included in the AFITF budget. We know, by reading the report of the Special Rapporteur, that the postponement of the A45 project represents a saving of EUR 20 million next year, and that of the Lyon-Turin railway project represents an savings of about 130 million. We believe that this last project is a gabegie and an anti-ecological project, because 80% of the traffic involved in the Lyon-Turin project could go through existing lines. The revival of this project runs counter to the Minister's commitment to address the renovation of existing lines as a matter of priority. It is an anti-ecological project, the most expensive of public-private partnerships with 26 billion euros in France. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The purpose of this amendment is to express our opposition to this unnecessary and dangerous project. It is also a call amendment: since you have divided the "Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity" programme by two, we want to transfer the 130 million credits saved to this programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u242	If I understand correctly, you want to withdraw EUR 130 million from our programme on the pretext of not financing Lyon-Turin. But your amendment poses a problem: our programme does not finance Lyon-Turin! This project is supported by AFITF, and is not included in the budget appropriations for the 203 program you are proposing to decrease. In fact, your amendment encourages us to reduce the effort we are making, for example, on the regeneration of the rail network for everyday transport. Finally, you are aware that this large project is currently undergoing a rephasing, new modalities, as part of the work we are carrying out with Philippe Duron on the infrastructure guidance board. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u243	I have before me two identical amendments, No 605 of the Committee on Sustainable Development and No 694 of Mr Matthieu Orphelin. Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u244	These amendments concern the heat fund, i.e. the main instrument of the State to develop renewable heat. France has very important objectives in this regard. As part of our presidential and legislative programme, we have made a strong commitment: doubling the heat fund, not in the first year, but in the quinquennium. This commitment had been announced before, but never fulfilled: we must do something differently. This is important, because we need this doubling to succeed in the heat bottom. At the same time, we will increase environmental taxation; This means that above all there is a need for additional resources for the heat fund in the early years. We understand the budgetary difficulties: a number of commitments made during the previous mandate had not been properly budgeted, forcing us today to increase the budget of the heat fund to simply meet these commitments on the projects already committed. What I am talking about here is funding new projects and accelerating the pace of renewable heat development, because we are not at the right pace to deliver on our commitments. It is good to have ambitious objectives, but the corresponding means must be given, especially since the heat fund is one of the most effective tools on all aspects: energy, employment, territorial development... The amendments propose to add, as a signal of the desired trajectory, EUR 20 million from this year. This is therefore a limited 10% increase in the heat base, which is currently slightly lower than its average performance over the last three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u245	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u246	Since most of the amendments under discussion today have not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, unless otherwise stated, I will give you my personal opinion. As I indicated in my report, the facial increase in ADEME's budget appropriations is largely illusory in relation to its actions, and it is valid for the heat fund. For our part, we think it was necessary to double it: it was a promise, if I am not mistaken, of Emmanuel Macron. According to a press release of 19 September signed by six major organizations – Association française des professionnels de la géothermie, Comité interprofessionnel du bois énergie, Fédération nationale des collectivités licensantes et régions, Syndicat des énergies reusables, Union de la coopération forestière française and Uniclima – "the trend shows that the 2020 target [set by the law on the energy transition] cannot be achieved with the current budget envelope of the heat fund. I am saving you the rest of the time for lack of time, but this statement is very clearly opposed to the budget as planned. Therefore, even if they do not propose a doubling, I am personally in favour of the two proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u248	I will not give you my personal opinion, but that of the Government. You are right, Mr Orphelin, you who are familiar with ADEME for reasons related to your history: we all know how efficient the heat fund is, which is popular with elected officials as well as companies. The President of the Republic has indeed pledged to increase this fund over the duration of the quinquennium. I reconfirm this commitment because it is important. It is also reflected in the Major Investment Plan: 720 million euros were announced by the Prime Minister a few weeks ago for this effective and popular tool. I have been hearing a number of things about ADEME for a while now. I would point out that its budget is increasing by 36 per cent, with a rebudgeting which will stabilize the public institution. Previously, ADEME depended on the TGAP, which was often paid late throughout the fiscal year, causing real cash flow difficulties. These cash pressures led the Agency to start its work in April or May, if I don't say anything stupid. This re-budgeting, which has nothing to do with the facade, allows the ADEME to work as of January 1, 2018! It is important that the parliamentarians you are write the finance bill in order to bring real progress to the actors involved in the public institution. I would add, even if the debate is a little technical, that increasing the heat fund to increase the heat fund has no interest: what matters is to increase its efficiency. The increase in this fund cannot be dissociated from the carbon trajectory since, of course, the carbon trajectory creates levers and blows up competitiveness locks on the cost of heat, electricity in this case, which makes it possible to see a number of projects moving forward. On a constant budget, what you do – "at the same time", according to the formula dedicated – on the carbon tax makes it possible to improve efficiency by 200 kilotep. With an equivalent heat base, the efficiency of projects on the ground increases thanks to the carbon trajectory. Once again, I take all these technical precautions to confirm to you that increasing the heat bottom is a priority of this quinquennium, even if not everything can be done in one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u249	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u250	Thank you, Secretary of State, for confirming the President of the Republic's commitment to doubling the heat fund on the quinquennium. For the time being, on this budget, the account is: +36 % of payment appropriations for ADEME, the heat fund increased by 5 million euros, a third air quality and sustainable mobility fund created to the tune of 20 million, and the special allocation account "Energy transition" with 20 billion, some of which can be used for energy renovation purposes. As a result, the Republic on the move Group will not support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u251	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u252	You mustn't think we're stupid! ADEME's payment appropriations are increasing for next year, but its commitment authorizations are decreasing! As of 2018, commitment authorizations for the heat fund have increased from 220 million to 200 million, all because there is a stock of files and we don't know how to finance them. Everyone believed in the word of the state: there is a trajectory for renewable heat and, moreover, if we did not increase renewable heat, we would never meet our renewable energy targets... It's simple! In my region, I asked the management of ADEME to provide me with the figures. Of course, before the vote on the budget, they were careful and did not, but I had them in-house: there are 23 files in rade and 3 files that can be funded! Farmers come to me to know what to do. If you don't double the hot bottom quickly, all we can say is that we couldn't get results... The commitment of the President of the Republic must be kept! Even with 20 million euros, we will not achieve these goals, so at least take a small step, we will increase the rest later! I recalled earlier that carbon credits amounted to 8 billion euros in the state's pocket – the bottomless hole –: don't you think we can recover a few tens of millions of euros to finance the heat fund? It doesn't hold!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u253	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u254	I understand what is said about the exercise of budgetary sincerity on payment appropriations – thank you for doing so because it is indeed very important for the state. For my part, I am talking about authorizations for new projects: how can we be reassured? Of course, everything can't be done in a year, but let's give ourselves a path of increasing the permissions to commit the heat fund: this can be a basis for discussion between us. The second solution, which we spoke of in the enlarged committee, is that in the amending finance bill, we could recycle a portion of any appropriations from the energy transition trust account to fill part of the shortfall in payment appropriations for the projects committed. This would make it possible to continue this necessary exercise of budgetary sincerity. We need this trajectory and a strengthening of the heat base, especially the first three years; Secondly, ecological taxation will be at a level sufficient for the heat fund to gradually return to its original level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u255	On the identical amendments Nos 605 and 694, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (France) of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u256	France will vote in favour of this amendment because if France fails to fulfil its commitments, it will face serious problems, as Mr Orphelin pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u257	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u258	At the current pace, the renewable energy development goals – five-fold increase in the delivery of renewable heat by the grid by 2030 – are out of reach. This would require an additional 150 kilotoe of renewable heat from next year and an additional 300 in 2019 and 2020. This would mean doubling the credits from the heat fund as early as next year and doubling them again by the end of the quinquennium. The heat base is therefore largely undersized in relation to renewable energy support schemes. But we continue to believe in this commitment of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u259	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u260	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I would like to say to Mrs Panot that I am pleased that she supports a commitment by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u261	We also support its nuclear commitments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u262	We will, of course, ensure that this commitment is fulfilled within five years. The Grand Investment Plan provides an additional €720 million over five years for the heat fund. In addition, alongside ADEME's flagship funds such as the Heat Fund or the Waste Fund, the Air Quality and Sustainable Mobility Fund has been created, with €20 million this year. It therefore seems to us that the account is for this year and we will be extremely attentive to the fact that, during the quinquennium, the necessary resources are given to the heat fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u263	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u264	I would like to address the issue of the heat floor from a different angle: that of air quality. Half of the French population lives in areas where air quality is problematic. I commend the Minister of State's work on this subject, which he placed among his priorities as soon as he took office. A significant part of the problem is due to the heating of dwellings. This heat base is therefore extremely important to help us meet the challenge of improving air quality. That is why I am going to vote for this amendment, which aims to increase its resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u265	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u266	I have had the opportunity to reassure you on the hotbed, but since the amendment is the subject of a public vote, we still have to talk about the pledge. The appropriations of Program 217 fund the support functions of the Ministry, i.e. everything that makes it possible to operate the Ministry of the Green Transition on a daily basis, up to the social accompanying measures of the officials of the Ministry. The pledge you are proposing represents 10% of the appropriations that make it possible to operate the public service provided by this ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u267	All you have to do is raise the pledge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u268	I wanted the House to be perfectly enlightened about the nature of the guarantee of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u269	The next speaker is Mr. Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u270	ADEME's appropriations are actually increasing by 36%, Mr. Secretary of State, but this increase is largely used to finance the remainders to be paid. As regards the main actions, commitment authorisations are down: -10.3% for the renewable heat programme, -18.8% for the waste and circular economy programme, -7.4% for the support for research and innovation in these areas of intervention. These reductions must be balanced against the objectives. If we consider that the most important thing is the climate, your answer to the question that, given the status of the remains to be paid, it is no big deal if these appropriations are declining. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As for Emmanuel Macron's promises, we are not sectarian: we will vote for those that suit us, but it seems, especially since the nuclear revolution a few days ago, that these are the ones that will not be kept!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u271	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u272	The pledge is the fiscal year imposed on parliamentarians, who cannot propose to swell one budget line without compensating for a reduction in appropriations over another. But the Government still has the opportunity to "get out"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u273	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 605 and 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u274	I call Mr Pahun to support Amendment No. 867.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u275	The aim of this amendment is to finance the abolition of Article 53, the cost of which must not be deferred to a budget for maritime affairs which is already very constrained, whereas it is used to finance essential actions in the fields of maritime security and safety or maritime education. I would remind you that this budget is already falling by 9% as a result of the abolition of EUR 19 million in exemption from charges under Action 03 and that it cannot bear any more.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u277	You have not escaped the fact that the Government has tabled an amendment to delete article 53, which is a very good thing. You are asking that the cost of this measure not be charged to the maritime affairs budget. Subject to the Government's commitment that these 19 million will not be taken from this budget, which could not bear it as it stands, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u278	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u279	I would ask you to withdraw your amendment for the simple reason that the Government has just tabled an amendment to delete article 53. Your amendment, therefore, no longer has its raison d'être.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u280	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u281	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u282	I call Mr Blein to support Amendment No. 610 of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u283	When a company wants to be advised for its development or management, or to check the merits of its strategy, it can apply to a Chamber of Commerce and Industry – unless it is one of the 165,000 companies in the social economy: it must then apply to the local accompanying arrangements – DLA – which are all windows allowing to welcome in each department the actors of the social economy to help them structure their project in economic, legal or strategic terms. These schemes have so far been financed by the State, the European Social Fund, the Caisse des dépôts and a number of regional authorities which consider social economic development aid to be one of their tasks, which is the case, as the law has so decided. The aim of this amendment is to maintain the appropriations for DLAs, i.e. EUR 1.8 million. This is, as we can see, an extremely modest sum, but its removal would encourage other financiers to reduce their contribution. Maintaining the financing of the schemes accompanying these enterprises would be an important signal to be sent to the whole social economy, particularly to the voluntary sector, at a time when many of these bodies are being invited to review their economic model.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u285	The funds for the development of the social and solidarity economy have been transferred from the "Economy" mission to the "Ecology" mission, within the framework of program 159 "Expertise, geographic information and meteorology" with which he has little to see – but you may want to explain this strangeness. These constant changes in scope are difficult to justify. They affect the readability of budget documents, and therefore the sincerity of the budget itself. This amendment aims to restore intervention expenditure for ALDs to their 2017 level. The decline in this PLF is part of a general downward trend in subsidies granted to associations working for the ecological transition and for a responsible economy. I therefore express a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u287	Thank you for your interest in these absolutely fundamental issues. At the beginning of the quinquennium, we seek to develop operational strategies that can produce results as quickly as possible for the transformation movements that we begin. Minister of State Nicolas Hulot has made a public commitment to maintain these appropriations. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. The appropriations will indeed be there but within the framework of a management dialogue for technical reasons related to state accounting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u288	Mr Yves Blein, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u289	Taking note of the very formal commitment that these appropriations will be restored, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u290	I now call the clauses of the bill attached to this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u291	I have before me three amendments to delete this article, Nos. 1204, 573 and 734. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1204.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u292	In 2015, the Interministerial Committee on the Sea identified the absolute need to support the French flag, subject to fierce competition. In the previous legislature, Parliament passed a law for the blue economy that introduced a social security exemption, commonly known as netwage. The cost of this measure has been foreseen in the 2017 budget, although it has not yet been implemented. As regards aid to economic actors, it has indeed been notified to the European Commission, but the Commission has not yet given its answer, which we expect for the coming weeks. It is well planned to implement this measure in 2017, once the Commission's response is known, which has no reason to be unfavourable, other EU countries applying such measures. For 2018, the cost of this measure, which amounts to EUR 19 million, was not included in the budget model. I have noted that a number of amendments have been tabled which seek to secure the cost of this measure from other budgets, such as those relating to maritime affairs or others. However, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe made the decision to delete section 53 in order to allow arms to retain this competitive advantage. Funding for this measure will be provided within the scope of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition while preserving the programme of modernization of the maritime administration, which is fundamental to preparing for the future. So this is another commitment of the Head of State and the Prime Minister that we propose to keep by deleting this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u293	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 573.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u294	The aim of this amendment is to avoid undermining the maritime service and transport chain by retaining the scheme provided for by law for the blue economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u295	I call Mr Eric Bothorel to support Amendment No. 734.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u296	This identical amendment tends to support our French flag, which is in great need of it. The mechanism that the article intends to remove may not offer a competitive advantage to the industry, but it is certainly an asset in terms of competitiveness, in a context of harsh competition. The sector thus supported goes beyond the simple commercial marine: it is a complete ecosystem that is sheltered under the French flag. I am thinking of our maritime high schools, our schools and our merchant navy officers who, during their career, hold positions on land with solid expertise. Our economic fabric is thus irrigated by a network of experts who act for example as a port pilot or in the world of insurance. I therefore commend the Government for its decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u297	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u298	The committee's opinion is in favour of these amendments, which everyone welcomes, starting with the maritime sector. In this regard, I welcome the action taken by the colleagues who have worked with me to reach this decision, which is satisfactory to all. If I understand correctly, there will be no financial impact on the Maritime Affairs programme, and we will think together about the best guarantee for the EUR 19 million. I am therefore fully reassured.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u299	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u300	I would be grateful if you would thank the Prime Minister on my part, Mr Secretary of State, for although, in a 9% decrease, the appropriations for the Maritime Affairs programme are up by 3 million euros, in particular for the acquisition of a beacon in the north of France. That's good news. We were many earlier in the day to stress the importance of the French flag, of the strategic fleet. We will perhaps come back to other debates on the necessary creation of a toll at the entrance of the Channel, where a boat between every thirty minutes: it is therefore 65,000 sailors who constantly cross in this area. It is therefore to be hoped that a maritime tax will be introduced, as there are air taxes. Such a tax will be important for the Channel, but even more so for the more dangerous and less supervised shipping areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u301	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u302	As co-rapporteur of the Blue Economy Law Enforcement Mission, I welcome the Government's decision, which delights me. The ambition of the Leroy law adopted in June 2016 is to restore the competitiveness of the French flag, our sailors and maritime actors in our country. Its first effects are positive; They're already making themselves felt. The spirit of this law is to make lasting use of our maritime potential and to build a true maritime strategy for our country. Let us remember our commitment, let us dare the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u303	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 563, 567, 643 and 657 to delete Article 54. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 563.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u304	Article 54 provides for funding by the six water agencies of our territory of the Agence française pour la biodiversité – AFB – and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage. The purpose of this amendment is to delete this article, because our country, France, is exemplary in the area of water financing. Our model is envied by all. The proposed funding would force this model: it would permanently unbalance the budgets of the water agencies, which are largely used to finance, with the municipalities, especially the rural municipalities, the rehabilitation of drinking water systems, the preservation of groundwater, the control of diffuse pollution through the establishment of sewage treatment plants, and the management of rivers. It therefore seems important to us to maintain the French model of water agencies and to maintain the necessary funding for all these actions. As was provided for in the law that created the Agence française pour la biodiversité, adequate funding must be found without punctuating existing funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u305	On the identical amendments Nos 563, 567, 643 and 657, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 567.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u306	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this measure will probably be one of the most serious markers of the ecological budget. I wonder if you are well aware of the impact it could have in the weeks to come, if you do not correct the shot. We are in the context of the changeover from the 10th to the 11th programme: the €2.3 billion budget is reduced by €700 million in commitment capacity. Water agencies have already had to support the creation of the National Biodiversity Agency two years ago, amounting to 175 million euros. A pass-by was also held in committee with the removal by amendment of the "braining ceiling", the Government and the majority having assured us that this removal would restore a margin of manoeuvre of 145 million euros. At the same time, Bercy has been spending 200 million money since 2018. So we were taken with one hand what we had been given with the other, and even more. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority who voted in good faith in the enlarged committee, because you will hear about it when you return to your constituency: the situation is worse than last week. You have thus touched on the principle of the polluter pays and the financing of water by water. As Jean-Marie Sermier pointed out, the model of water agencies is envious to us all over the world: on a European scale, management plans are the equivalent of our master plans for water management and management – SDAGE – and the districts are the equivalent of our basins. These agencies have been set up to allow territorial solidarity, to finance not only the small cycle of water – drinking water, sanitation – but also prevention upstream, and above all the peaks of investment. A wastewater treatment plant is built for thirty or fifty years in one territory and costs 30 to 40 million euros. This justifies the need for an advance, substantial aid. Water agencies may not use program and payment authorities or borrowing. Working capital is therefore not a war treasure, as Bercy says. These are simply reservations to deal with the work on which the agencies have committed themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u307	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State: if the Government and the majority do not come back to this decision, it will be terrible for all territories, urban as well as rural.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u309	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 643.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u310	Our group is also proposing an amendment to delete Article 54 which, as previous speakers have pointed out, recognises the allocation of the budget of the water agencies to finance the AFB and other public biodiversity operators in the amount of between EUR 240 million and EUR 260 million. The resources of the six water agencies regularly serve as an adjustment variable in the state budget; Once again, you are making a sad demonstration of it, Secretary of State. If this article were adopted, it would condemn water agencies to prematurely put an end to the long-term programme of recovery and conservation of biodiversity. But this temporality does not seem to have your favors: the budget cuts that you operate in turn demonstrate enough that you follow a short-term logic. Once again, you refuse to get out of the beautiful speeches by planing essential resources to ensure the protection of aquatic environments. We are not fooled: this operation aims to fill the frank budget cuts made within the Ministry of Ecology on the backs of biodiversity and landscapes. Funding for environmental management and biodiversity has been divided by two. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The Government must stop this game of budget musical chairs, which fools no one, and take responsibility for the climate emergency by financing the two policies, water and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u311	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 657.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u312	The State has pricked water agencies around 150 million euros a year for three years. It was already said that it was not tenable. I was pleased that an amendment by the Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development was accepted to avoid double punishment, i.e. both a reduction in the budget and an additional levy. And now our friend Martial Saddier explains to us that we have been rolled in flour, since 300 million will be taken from the budget of the water agencies. What will happen, because there is no other solution, is that water agencies will turn to communities because they will no longer be able to act. Communities with obligations – because when a leak issue is not addressed, for example, one is taxed – this will necessarily result in higher water prices. It's not possible, Bercy thinks we're morons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u313	Yes, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u314	Of course, not all of us have done the ENA.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u315	Isn't that right, Mr. Aubert?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u316	We're not all at their level, but we've got our hands in the mess and we see how things are going! We run the water agencies and I'm telling you, this is not all possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u317	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u318	If you followed what I said earlier, you will understand that my personal opinion is in favour. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republic on the move, I would like to draw your attention to a fact. Sometimes opposition groups have the same opinion, but for different reasons. Today, however, we share the same view for the same reasons. That should put the chip in your ear. This measure will weaken the incomes of water agencies, even though the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union, which you listen carefully to when it comes to the €10 billion unduly taxed on dividends, point the finger at our country because 80% of the water is polluted. You will significantly reduce the finances of water agencies: they themselves estimate that the puncture will be at least 136 million at the end of the cup game. The fact that the water agencies have a cash flow of EUR 700 million, because that is the answer that was given to me the other time, does not justify a reduction in their funding at the same time as their missions are being expanded. Such an argument does not hold. For all these reasons, I am obviously in favour of these amendments, but I must make it clear that at least with regard to the Group's amendment. The Commission has given an unsolicited opinion on France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u320	I know this subject well, not as an enanque – I don't have the talent of MP Aubert – but as elected municipal, community and departmental. I therefore ask you to believe, gentlemen, that the Government, which I represent on this bench, knows the water agencies. In fact, my good commune in Vernon has benefited from important projects carried out with their help. Unfortunately, this debate must be conducted from a very technical point of view, unless you wish to do politics, gentlemen, which would be understandable just a few days before the Congress of Mayors! As I know you well, I doubt that this is your approach and your state of mind, especially since you are showing a constructive approach to the subject. First of all, with regard to the biting ceiling, the abolition of the ceiling, Mr Saddier, allows for a margin of manoeuvre not of EUR 145 million, but of EUR 175 million. On the other hand, the mechanism chosen is not the result of a decision by the Government but rather the Parliament, since it has in fact adopted an amendment tabled by the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Gérald Darmanin, but resulting from a compromise with several parliamentarians, in particular the Chairperson of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, Minister Pompili, concerned with maintaining the "polluter pays" principle. Secondly, in response to your comments on the cash-flow pressures on large investments, I would like to point out that the cash flow of the water agencies is still EUR 760 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u321	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u322	This must be taken into account in the budgetary context we are experiencing. You can't say everything and the opposite. I know you are attentive to the budgetary rigour and the balance of the nation's accounts, Mr Saddier and Mr Sermier, whom I believe you are defending elsewhere. Thirdly, we accept the decision to finance the French Biodiversity Agency, amounting to EUR 34.5 million, and the National Office for Hunting and Wildlife, amounting to EUR 37.6 million. This is in fact an already old demand of local elected officials, puzzled by the break-up of governance in this area between three dispersed operators. I have often heard this observation when I was elected local. This funding is accompanied by two counterparties. First of all, it helps to stabilize the resources of the AFB and the ONCFS, which are expected by local elected officials working with these public institutions, as I saw again last weekend overseas, where I accompanied the Prime Minister last weekend. It then allows for an integration of governance. How many elected members of the basin committees, real local water parliaments, whom you are familiar with, gentlemen, have so often deplored not playing any role in defining the missions of the FBA and the ONCFS? The set-up proposed here benefits both the stabilization of resources and the necessary governance. I know I won't convince you about this, gentlemen. You asked for a public vote and I can see exactly what you're talking about. Nevertheless, the Government will have answered you with frankness and sincerity. With regard to water agencies, François Sauvadet, president of the Côte-d'Or department council, whose investment in local water governance you know, says better than I do: it is time to have a real debate about what we expect. I would like to have an exclusively financial and budgetary debate, as it is possible to have one on all subjects. In fact, Mr Coquerel, I note that you are blaming me for one thing about the TEPCVs, and its opposite about the ADEME's credits. Whether it is payment credits for the ADEME is not right for you, but that the TEPCV does not have payment credits, it is not right for you either!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u323	That's not what I just said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u324	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Right now, no, but earlier I did. I want to hear about budget sincerity every five minutes, but at some point there are those who talk about it and those who do it! That is also the reality, Mr. Member! There must be a debate about what is expected of water agencies. For too long, legislators and some local elected officials have been asking them to finance far too many schemes. There is therefore a need for a calm debate on their funding and missions. I hope I answered you frankly, gentlemen. I am not sure if I have convinced you, but I would ask you to believe that the Government does not take any steps to plan the resources of the water agencies or to punish the territories. You have my word.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u325	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u326	Mr Minister, the calm and preciseness with which you have responded proves that our remarks did not leave you insensitive and that they were not part of a political debate. Like some of our colleagues, I have been chair of a local water commission for 20 years, responsible for river contracts and water planning and management schemes, and has been a member of a basin committee for 15 years. Everything therefore indicates that I am not taking the floor on this subject in this House for the first time and that I know him, like some of our colleagues and like you, Secretary of State. First of all, we have a debate on the famous biting ceiling. I am assessing the margin of manoeuvre resulting from its abolition, like some of our colleagues, at EUR 145 million, and you at EUR 175 million. Of which act. On the other hand, you did not answer one of my questions. Will the removal of the biting ceiling be offset, at Bercy's initiative, by a levy of EUR 200 million which was not planned ten days ago and which now seems effective as of 2018? To that specific question, I apologize for saying that you did not answer, Secretary of State. As our comments appear in the Official Journal, the future will tell whether the exact amount of savings expected is EUR 145 million or EUR 175 million. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. My very specific question remains: will the removal of the biting ceiling be offset or not by a levy of EUR 200 million, in which case the preceding debate is closed? Secondly, water agencies do not have a cash flow but a working capital. You know that, Mr Secretary of State, you who have been elected local, but this may not be the case of all our colleagues, the time being at a non-cumulative time. Local authorities have the opportunity to use PAs/CPs – program authorization/payment credit – to build a wastewater treatment plant, gymnasium or swimming pool, spreading funding over three years and borrowing. Water agencies, which are under State control, do not have the right to use PA/CPs or loans. They are therefore obliged to accumulate money in order to cope with the heavy investments required by sewage treatment plants, the drinking water system and sanitation. However, there is a gap between the submission of a grant application and the start of work, which often lasts two to three years. The action you are planning to take will therefore condemn investments and commitments made two or three years ago. As for the connection of the ONCFS and the national parks to the AFB, allow me to tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that there was no majority in his favour 18 months ago in the same Chamber, where I was then sitting, as well as some of our colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u327	Please conclude, Mr Saddier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u328	This connection takes place today – of which act – with a budget going from 145 million euros to 297 million euros. The reduction of royalties, the additional drain, the connection of the ONCFS and the national parks: admit, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is a lot in a single year! Commitments made will be threatened and you will see in the territories that you have not finished hearing about them, ladies and gentlemen of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u329	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u330	The EUR 200 million levy you are talking about, Mr Bercy, was not decided by Bercy but voted by Parliament a few weeks ago. I should like to remind you of this and to refer you to the provisions adopted here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u331	Do you hear that, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? The Secretary of State blames the Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u332	I'm not blaming you. Don't worry, honourable Member, we take our decisions very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u333	They're not going to sleep tonight, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u334	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u335	Don't worry, they're in good shape!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u336	That's water! That's water!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u337	Secondly, the cash flow of the water agencies, which you call working capital, amounts to more than 700 million euros and has increased by 300 million euros in three years! In fact, these funds are not being requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u338	It's normal, the program's over!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u339	Of course, but if cash increases by 300 million euros in three years, it is not required! It's pretty easy to understand! We accept the decision we have made, which will not prevent water agencies from carrying out their missions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As for your remarks, without doubt their sincerity, I still detect the strategy of misinformation implemented by some of your colleagues about the Government's policy towards the territories, the very ones who say everywhere that the overall operating allocation – DGF – will decrease next year while it will be stabilized. In the end, the truth will have to break out in the territories too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u340	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 563, 567, 643 and 657.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u341	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 597 and 864. I call Mr Yannick Haury, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 597.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u342	This amendment, adopted by the committee, allows the FAB, national parks and ONCFS to have the necessary cash to meet their mandatory expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u343	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor to support Amendment No. 864.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u344	As this amendment is the same, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u346	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I will make a personal opinion on this amendment. It is co-signed by a large number of members of the La République en marche group, which, I believe, demonstrates the scepticism of the majority about the proposed scheme. If this one inspires your confidence, ladies and gentlemen, why would you feel obliged to specify the date and minimum amount of the first payment of water agencies to the AFB and the ONCFS? What about the following payments? Should other legislation be taken to ensure the end-of-month of these organizations? All of this confirms in our view the fragility of the system that the Government is putting in place in terms of water and biodiversity policy. My personal opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u347	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u350	This technical amendment to secure the device is welcome. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u351	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u352	This amendment clearly demonstrates the urgency of determining the funding of the Agence française pour la biodiversité. In the absence of the planned funding, it is no more than an urgent means of punctuating the resources of the water agencies to cover the expenditure of the State – for example by voting against the amendments to delete Article 54, as you have just done.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u353	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 659.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u354	This amendment aims to clarify that 10% of the proceeds of the offshore wind tax will be allocated to the French Biodiversity Agency for the preservation of marine and coastal ecosystems. To date, the arrangements for allocating 5% of the tax to projects contributing to sustainable development have not been defined and this product may be recovered for purposes other than that provided for in Article L. 219-9 of the Environmental Code: "...to achieve or maintain a good ecological state of the marine environment". The marine environment requires increasing financial resources for its management, protection and improvement of its knowledge. As the areas to be protected and marine problems increase, budgetary resources stagnate. Assigning 10% of the tax to the Agence française pour la biodiversité is a solution to ensure the financing of the policy of protecting the marine environment and the coastline.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u356	It is very generous to allocate an additional portion of the offshore wind tax to the ABB... still it would be necessary for the offshore wind to exist! Unlike the Grenelle Environmental Accords, we have managed to achieve the performance of not having a single wind turbine installed at sea. The first ones will not be put into service until 2021 at best, in Saint-Nazaire. That is to say the delay France accuses of its neighbours! Direct funding arrangements would be more satisfactory than the Government's provision for water agencies. But, after all, this may be explained by the fact that nuclear power is being extended... because when nuclear power is extended, we step back on renewable energy, by a rather conventional toggle effect. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u358	Within the framework of the National Conference of Territories, a group is working on the release of renewable energies, including wind, land and sea. He wondered about taxation, and in particular about the impact of the flat-rate taxation on network companies – IFER – for the benefit of the municipalities, which were sometimes deprived of it by certain intercommunalities. Wind turbines at sea do not escape this reflection. [[Smile]] You will note that once it is not customary, I agree with Eric Coquerel. There are not yet any wind turbines at sea, but we are moving quickly on a number of projects, as evidenced by the inauguration a few weeks ago of the Floatgen project in Saint-Nazaire. Without anticipating the conclusions of the working group in which all the associations of elected representatives – AMF, ADF, AdCF, ARF – participate, I issue a wisdom opinion very favourable to this amendment and I raise the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u359	Thank you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u360	I call Mr Daniel Labaronne to support Amendment No. 639.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u361	This amendment supplements Amendment No 670 which I tabled earlier. You gave me assurances, Secretary of State, on the budgeting of the funding of the National Road Committee – CNR – that you had doubts about the performance of a tax such as I proposed. In this amendment, I propose to introduce this tax effective January 1, 2018, which would provide an opportunity to assess its performance prior to the 2019 Finance Bill, which could provide for the de-budgeting of the NRC. The State, which would save 1.3 million euros, could thus permanently allocate the proceeds of the tax to the financing of the CNR.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u363	In view of the comments made earlier by the Secretary of State on Amendment No 670, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u365	Mr. Deputy, the Government has heard and reassured you. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u366	Mr Labaronne, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u367	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u368	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1037, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u369	Here is an innovation that comes straight from the Prime Minister's move to Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy to change, in a consensual way I believe, the use of the fund for the prevention of major natural risks, said Barnier funds. The amendment seeks first of all to extend the ability of this fund to finance the demolition and compensation of informal housing – in other words, less technically illegal housing – which is known to be particularly vulnerable in the event of a natural disaster such as a rise in water or an earthquake. Secondly, it aims to open up the possibility for the fund to support the reduction of the vulnerability of buildings in areas not covered by a flood prevention plan but covered by flood prevention programmes. Some of you, as well as elected associations, have brought this matter before us. This technical advance will optimize the use of the Barnier fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u371	Unless I am mistaken, the committee has not considered this amendment. I therefore express an opinion in my own capacity. This provision is a lesser evil, since it aims to extend the Barnier Fund's ability to finance the demolition and compensation of informal housing exposed to natural hazards in the overseas departments and regions for a further year. However, I would like to ask several questions: if we consider this to be a useful mechanism, why should we not perpetuate it? Why was it implemented only in Guyana and Mayotte? Why is it capped at 5 million euros a year? The second provision makes it possible to mobilise the Barnier fund in territories not covered by a plan for the prevention of natural flood risks but covered by an action plan and for the prevention of floods. The fund can only be activated when there is a complementary contribution from the local community. When we know the financial problems of the local authorities, we find that the Barnier fund is not used every time it should be used. Finally, the draft finance law for 2018 has capped the revenue of this fund at 137 million euros, a much lower amount than the expenditure recorded in recent years, of 178 million euros. It doesn't go far enough. However, this amendment represents progress and I personally express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u372	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 636.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u373	Météo-France is a world reference for weather forecasting, one of the best forecasting institutes with its British and German counterparts. For years, the operator has been facing a significant drop in its workforce, since 2012, from 3400 to 3020 agents, notably as a result of the closure of many departmental centres, and 90 full-time equivalents – FTEs – have to disappear every year until 2022. This means that in this highly competitive world of weather, Météo-France will no longer be able to provide certain services. The operator will not be able to do as well, a fortiori better, with much less. In addition, Météo-France plans to acquire a supercomputer next year – it is a necessity, with the weather forecast now being established thanks to computer models. However, the lack of budgetary visibility makes it impossible to make any financial projections in the call for tenders. However, entire years of exercise and the forecasting performance of Météo-France depend on it. This seems aberrant, while 40% of French companies are weather sensitive and extreme weather risks are on the rise. The amendment provides that 5% of the revenue from the Community scheme for the exchange of CO emissions allowances will be allocated to Météo-France, up to a maximum of EUR 550 million per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u374	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u375	To secure this amendment, we drew on the CGEDD's Lavarde report of July 2016, entitled "Proposal for scenarios to fund public policies for the preservation of water resources, biodiversity and marine environments". Everyone will be able to appreciate the seriousness of this pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u376	On Amendment No 636, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u377	The committee did not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u378	She gave an unfavorable opinion, right? What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u379	We have already had this debate in committee, so I will be brief. The need for investments is very important in Météo-France, with this supercomputer expected to better predict climate phenomena – which are increasingly unpredictable! It is a heavy investment of €190 million, financed throughout the quinquennium. This amendment is not necessary. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u380	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u381	Météo-France has real know-how, which climate disruption – sometimes dramatic – makes essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u382	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u383	Everyone rents Météo-France. I am particularly pleased by Mr. Jimmy Pahun's speech because, to belong both to the world of sailing, we know the importance of Météo-France. Unfortunately, we are about to vote for a budget that will remove 90 full-time equivalents per year by 2022, which will obviously weaken Météo-France, which will no longer have the means to offer us the same services. Unless your purpose is to promote competition, it must be said in this case. I maintain my amendment and I invite you to reflect on the consequences of the weakening of this operator, which is essential for establishing the weather forecast but also for carrying out the ecological transition. Through its orange or red alerts, it enables us to assess the risks that may arise from certain weather events. We will weaken Météo-France for the next five years. I would like to repeat this to the Secretary of State: we have discussed it with all the trade union organizations. They are unanimously opposed to this plan, which will be implemented in the coming years, including those that do little to mobilize.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u384	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u385	We are a very large country in Europe. Météo-France's network is extremely important and its historical meshing has allowed for unprecedented scientific discoveries for a century. The reduction, year after year, of its budget leads to the impoverishment of this scientific data. We are very sensitive to this, for reasons relating to tourism dynamics as well as to risk prevention. I think that most Members of the Republican Group will support this amendment to help Météo-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u386	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u387	We are talking about Météo-France, but what we are talking about is reducing the resources of the ANAH, while it plays an essential role in the fight against climate change, seeking to reduce the energy insecurity of many homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u388	It's not about the ANAH!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u389	That is not how the amendment is handled!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u390	It is all the less wise to reduce ANAH's main resource, since it does not have excess credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u391	I put to the vote Amendment No. 636.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u392	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1047.u393	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2018 Finance Bill: Further to the review of the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". The meeting is adjourned.
