ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4240	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you. Before I move to discuss the agenda of this session, I would like to inform you that the Central Election Commission of BiH, on 02.06., delivered the decision to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the termination of the term of office of the late envoy, Hasan Bečirović, and assigned the mandate to Mr Seudin Hodžić, as the next qualified candidate from the list of political entities of the SDP, for the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I call on Mr Seudin Hodžić to take an oath before the House of Peoples, after which he assumes all the rights and obligations of the envoys in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I swear to God, I'll be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4242	I pledge to carry out the duties entrusted to me knowingly,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4243	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4244	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4245	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4246	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4247	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4248	to protect and defend human rights and primary freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4249	I congratulate you. [[APLAuz]] Thank you, fellow Hodžić. Here, take your place. I am now opening the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4252	Thank you, Mr. Čović. Dear Mr. Chairman, members of the College, ladies and gentlemen, guests. My congratulations to my new colleague in the House of Peoples. I hope the co-operation will be as good as it was with your predecessor, Mr. Hasan Bećirović. It was a great man and a great representative of his people. When it comes to this agenda, I'd like to suggest the following. I suggest that the points marked in the amended agenda as point 4 and point 5 and point 22 be removed from this session, i.e. remove it from this agenda. I find my reasons in the next one. When it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities, we have here one situation where this Law has been subject to various criticisms and has received assessments of its dispute or indisputability in a way that is not sufficiently explained to the public, nor to us as delegates, and has passed all the procedure as it comes to us. Furthermore, at one point, this Law was also assessed as law 5 which passed jurisdiction from entities, and so did the RS to the joint bodies of BiH, which is a kind of political crime, given the attitude of the RS public, but also a kind of political confusion, given the different interpretation of this issue, not only between political entities, but also within political entities themselves. On the other hand, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH was eventually declared a law that is unacceptable from the RS's point of view, as it transfers jurisdiction. And in a variety of efforts to reach the truth, to try to find out what's true here, and not only by relying on my knowledge or the knowledge of the political system and the legal rules, but also by talking to other people, I understood, therefore, that it is two regulations that defacto and dejour concern money laundering, that this first one solves in a systematic manner and in accordance with some of the instructions of MONEYVAL, while this second one refers to certain changes that are related to criminal law, i.e. The BiH criminal law, in part of establishing the limits of jurisdiction when it comes to the judiciary that we unfortunately have, as we do, have. And this means that if money laundering is made in the RS, the RS authorities are the judicial authorities, if in the Federation of BiH then the Federation, if in Brcko District of Brcko District, and if two or more of these areas are connected, that is, if there is an international element, then there is the jurisdiction of the judiciary, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. By themselves, therefore, both of these laws, therefore, have a certain kind of political burden that they carry with them. If I understand correctly, in order to resolve this issue by RS President Milorad Dodik, he has sent us as delegates a letter informing us that when it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities, he is no longer controversial, although he was controversial, while, as regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH, the Law remains controversial. So it remains something that does not fit the legal political system as it exists within BiH. That is, in a Colloquial sense, it conveys jurisdiction. This, of course, has its political weight, given that it came from the President of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of what the motives were, is it something about politics itself or something that is the product of doing that function. Međtuim, the problem is that the day after that, so Mr. Dodik's letter was from June 04th, and on June 05th, we received a new letter from, says this -- Republika Srpska, the president of the Republic, the RS Vice President's cabinet, which was addressed, so from Mr. Emil Vlajki's cabinet, vice-president of the RS, subsequently addressed, in which he says both of these legislative proposals aim to alienate RS's competence and transfer them to the state level of BiH. Both legislative proposals are absolutely connected and mutually conditional, which means they can't function without each other. Three – voting for any of these two legislative proposals will, when this leads to the acceptance of this other one. So he says, the conclusion – in order to prevent the transfer of competences from entity to state level, it is necessary, by an urgent procedure, to bring both of these legal proposals into line, and according to the highest European standards within the National Assembly of the RS, with the already existing legislation of this entity. What is very important, everything else will seriously question the sovereignty of the RS and lead to further degradation and its constitutional position guaranteed by Dejton. Now, this is the president of the Republic, this is the vice president of the Republic, well, this is from the order of the Serbian people, this is from the order of the Croatian people. Someone now malicious would say that someone wants to be maybe more Catholic than the papa, but that's not the question right now, the question is, how are we supposed to treat these two letters? The exit is in the following – since neither the President of the Republic nor the Vice-President of the Republic are competent to say what is the transfer of jurisdiction, and what is not, but the National Assembly is responsible for this, as the Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Vlajki, who, by the way, has never transferred any jurisdiction of the RS anywhere, I think 6 is the only solution to this situation to remove these two laws from the agenda and to postpone this for a session that would follow the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. If we didn't have such a solution, then we would be repeated by the crisis that occurred at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, where delegates from the RS, MPs from the RS even inside, I say, one party voted differently, so it was an entire political affair. Not to say how much this whole situation reminds us of the 2006 List Act, here is Mr Ivanić, he knows what he's been through because he said the List Act was good. And that was a pre-election campaign. Niko of us want to get into a similar situation. We delegates from the Serb people are elected, elected to the National Assembly of the RS, and we should follow the policy trail of the National Assembly of the RS. If we're not able to do that then the National Assembly of the RS has a certain kind of problem with our performance here. Of course, there are questions where we, within the limits of our jurisdiction, can say that we are right and that the National Assembly of the RS is wrong. But I would not say that these are issues that can be regarded as issues of transfer of jurisdiction, I would even say that this should not be allowed. Accordingly, I suggest that these two points be removed from the agenda until the meeting of the National Assembly of the RS is held. As far as this point 22 is concerned, it refers to a proposal for the appointment of members of the Office to consider complaints. I thought this question was settled. I may have thought wrong, and that's not controversial. Okay, there's a majority, that most of them change from day to day, from situation to situation. Maybe someone didn't know someone, so when they met him, he decided to vote for him. It's all nice, but I'm asking here, so really someone, because it doesn't say it in these documents here, before I say, let's consider this item of the agenda, or if it's adopted in the agenda and it stays, within this point, maybe someone in the name of the Council of Ministers would explain to us whether, in this way, by including this item of the agenda, even though we've already made a statement about whether we're breaking the law. If we break the law so we know we're breaking the law, if we don't break the law so we know we're not breaking it. You see, we can break the law, it's not the first time, but then there's disputes, there's lawsuits, there's applications, there's who's why, etc. In order to spare ourselves this kind of inconvenience, let's do it rationally and get an interpretation from the promoter whether this way of proposing this item of the agenda is a violation of the Law on, I apologize, on the public procurement of BiH and the Decision on call, it is here that the competition, now in question, and setting out the conditions for members of the Office to consider complaints. That's it. And what else can I ask you to vote separately on these two proposals, so since three points of the different agenda are at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4253	Thank you, colleague Tadić. I assume that's what you said on behalf of the Hrvat, because a colleague of Vlajki should be a representative of the Hrvat in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4254	Mr. Čović, I don't share people on a national basis, or religiously, I respect all people equally, especially those who have a function. He is the vice president of the RS for me, such as Mr. Dodik, the president of the RS. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4255	Thank you. Comrade Bradarić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, members of the College, colleagues, colleagues, guests, I warmly welcome you all. I'm joining the congratulations for our colleague's appointment. I hope they will be worthy of replacing the rickets of Hasan Bećirović. I have a proposal to supplement the agenda. In accordance with Article 59(1), I propose that the agenda of today's session be complemented by a proposal for a conclusion of the Bosniak People's Club as a third point. The proposal reads, the draft conclusion reads – At its 38th session in the framework of the third item of the agenda, the BiH Council of Ministers will re-examine, following an urgent procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in BiH, Law No: 01.02-02-117/14, since 11/04.2014. There's a reason, of course, if this point is placed on the agenda I'll read the explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4257	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I raised this question last time, so I believed in good faith that it would be the point of the agenda today. It is about considering Amendment II to the Constitution of BiH, that famous member 9. If we don't put it today, we're going to be the third meeting that didn't have the courage, the determination, so I'm going to tell both responsibilities and morality to put this issue on the agenda session. What's the decision going to be? She'll be the way we vote, the arguments will be made. But really, the third convocation needs to pass without us having the strength to put this on the agenda session. And that's why I'm proposing today to include it, and I'm going to ask it to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4259	Thank you, fellow Simić. A fellow Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4260	Thank you. I suggest that item 22 be removed from the agenda. Why? In addition to the proposal for this point, we received an amazing, amazing letter from the Council of Ministers, in which the Council of 8 ministers said that a proposal was submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by members of the Office for the Review of Appeals set out by the Council of Ministers at the 66th session. So, the proposal by the Council of Ministers which rejected this House, the competition procedure implemented, all in accordance with the law, the Council of Ministers adopted the list, the House of Peoples rejected the motion by voting 7:7. The Council of Ministers has such a relationship with this House of Peoples to say – vote again on this proposal you refused. So this should get into anals I would say happening in this Parliamentary Assembly as an amazing thing. But that's a minor reason to take it off the agenda. The more significant reason to take it off the agenda is that acting in accordance with this proposal would do one undeniable illegal thing. Why? The law on public procurement, which we have just adopted and which has entered into force, in its Article 122, says the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will call a competition no later than 30 days after the date of entry into force of the Law, so a contest for the appointment of the Office for the Review of Appeals. And all those who are in the Office, appointed and whose mandate is under way, remain in place until the end of the term of office of five years, counting on the day they are appointed. If a period of five years has elapsed, members of the Office shall be obliged to carry out tasks from jurisdiction until the election of new members, and the Parliamentary Assembly shall be obliged to call a competition within a month of the entry into force. The law has come into force. Any action contrary to this, any action without calling a contest is against the law. I'm obliged to warn, and I think there's enough reason to get this point off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4261	Thank you, fellow Genjac. Personally, we have already placed two points of the agenda on the agenda today based on the previous reflection of this respected House that had a negative view on these proposals. In the same way, we will show ourselves about the attitude of the Bosniak Club around the law and the one that failed in the last session as such. And I don't see any reason why the Council of Ministers would suggest what they would do. The Council of Ministers acts as the executive power autonomously, which has sent us a proposal that has been submitted. We will make a statement about this proposal, and that is the statement of the members of the College. As far as the Law to which you are calling is concerned, you know that it enters into force on 01.01.2015, or applies from 01.01.15. But here's what I don't want to discuss. I think you've made your proposals on certain agenda points. I suggest we start from the agenda point, from the proposal to the proposal to make a statement as a House on this. This is now the correction of the wrong quote, fellow Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4262	Thank you. The law applies six months from the date of entry, but the obligation to call a competition is 30 days from the entry into force, it is very clear in the Law. That's one thing. Secondly, this is a proposal from Mr. Bradarić to supplement the agenda. Keep in mind, it was read by mistake, so Mr. Bradarić has completed the agenda, suggested an addition to the agenda. You could talk about whether it's the same, but not opening a discussion. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4263	Well, anyway, we have a completely different view of this, which is legitimate again in this House, my Bog. Do we have any more comments on the agenda? I don't have a report. I'd suggest we take it in a row then. We first had a proposal from counterpart Tadić on the removal of points 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda and point 22, with counterpart Tadić asking that we vote separately on this proposal as such. So I'm going to ask first of all to initiate the voting procedure, so for a proposal from counterpart Tadić to take off the agenda of item 4 and 5 of the agreed agenda of the College. Thank you. Of present 14 – for two representatives against 12, abstained none. Federation of BiH 9 v, RS 2 for, 3 against. We do not have the general majority, Tadić's proposal is rejected as such. Now, I'm going to ask you to initiate the voting procedure for the motion to take off the agenda of item 22 of the harmonised agenda. Thank you. Present 14 – for 4, versus 8, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 2 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions, RS 2 for, 3 against. We do not have a general majority, I again find that Tadić's proposal has not been adopted as such. Let's go to my colleague Bradarić's proposal, it's about supplementing point 3, meaning the new agenda item that my colleague Bradarić presented on behalf of the Bosniak Club, which would be classified as point 3, which means all other points of the agenda would eventually move on then. I ask you to initiate the voting procedure on the proposal of your colleague Bradarić. Thank you. Attendance 14 - for 10, versus 2, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 7 for, 2 abstentions, RS 3 for, 2 against. There is a general, there is an entity majority, I find that the proposal by my colleague Bradarić on the entry of point 3 has already been stated that I am not quoting, adopted. Let's go to proposal three, my colleague Simić is talking about amandman ii to the BiH Constitution. I'm going to ask you to initiate the voting procedure, meaning including this item on the agenda at today's session. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 5, versus 5, abstention 4. Federation of BiH 2 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions, RS 3 for, 2 abstentions. We don't have a general majority. Col. Simić's proposal was not adopted as such. And in the end, we had a request from a fellow Genjac who is completely identical to that of counterpart Tadić under another, so there is no need for a vote. This led to the fact that, in essence, according to the adopted proposal of counterpart Bradarić, who supported this House, we are expanding from the point of today's 3rd agenda. I'll read you that conclusion one more time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples suggest that the next conclusion be adopted by the House of Peoples – the House of Peoples will reconsider the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH at its 38th session in the framework of the 3rd item of the agenda to consider, following an urgent procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in BiH 10 The reason we heard, I also don't think it should be recorded in particular. Here is the adopted item 3 on the proposal of our colleague Bradarić. We are going in the agenda, the agenda was adopted in addition to this one supplement. We're going straight to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 37th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any interest in the application. We don't even have an application. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the 37th session of our House. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the 37th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I raised a question last time that stems from the domain of succession, protection of BiH's property and property rights when we have the JANAF issue. Today, however, I will add to that question another new one that is from that area. Namely, has the Council of Ministers met, was it in any way related to the question, since there are indications that the Republic of Slovenia is preparing certain claims, certain investment requirements in the Ugljevik Termo Power Plant, again it is an property that may in some way be subject to a succession of relations that are regulated and I would ask for an answer – Is there any knowledge on this matter of whether anything has been done and what is the plan for these issues to definitely begin to be resolved in the interest of the rule of law, not at the expense of BiH and its entities? Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4267	Thank you, fellow Simić. My kolegica Krišto, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4268	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the House of Peoples, dear deputy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I warmly welcome you all. Here, my question is to the Ministry of Justice, and through the Ministry of Justice, I ask it to all the competent prosecutors, investigation and protection agencies and other security agencies in BiH, and my question would have been – What have the competent institutions done and what do they do to shed light on the cases of difficult murders from General Šantić several years ago, to the case of the late Prime Minister Joza Leutar and others, to the recent murder, including the recent murder of the prominent economicist of the late Joza Kafadar, who, in some ways, re-entered the unrest and fear of the citizens and created additional mistrust in BiH institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4269	Thank you, colleague Krišto. kolegica Kapetanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was addressed to the representatives of the Council of Ministers. First of all, I want to make a statement and make sure that BiH is the country with the most expensive medicines in the region. According to information I have from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, BiH has made changes to the Regulation to regulate the maximum prices of medicinal products on the Bosnian Herzegovina market. Is it true that the BiH Council of Ministers avoids and does not want to include these changes on its agenda and to refer them to parliamentary procedure? In 2009, a single list of BiH medicines with unique prices was to be made with the aim of protecting end-users, and these are patients within BiH without ethnic differences, without any difference from which entity they come from. And regardless of the fact that health care entities are on a federal level, I think that by protecting patients' rights and by all international conventions that protect human rights, all patients should be equal, in achieving their right to health care, and therefore in accessing medicines. That's not how it is in BiH at this time. I ask – Why hasn't the Council of Ministers made that unique list since 2009 and not presented it to us as representatives? What does the Committee for Medicinal Products do, why is it not often advertised on this issue? The fact is that in the Federation, there is an even more complex problem, as prices of some drugs in the Federation of BiH cantons vary by up to 50% from canton to canton, breaking patients' interests roughly and not taking into account citizens' interests. The agency has therefore not put pressure on the Council of Ministers to come up with this unique list, so I ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers – When will they finally start to take care of the interests of the citizens of BiH when it comes to the protection of the rights of citizens, and in access to medical means equally, on an equal level regardless of the area of canton or entity from which they come? Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4271	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. Comrade Krešić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4272	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Before I ask the envoy's question, I would also regret why I did not get answers to the two envoys' questions I had asked recently, and regarding border cards and the border crossing of Gablea Polje-Metkovic. As it is known that the season is already beginning, and that in the southern part of the border crossing of Doljani-Gabela Doljani-Gabel-Polje-Metković has a constant problem with crossing the border, that there is an unsustainable crowd, this way I appeal to the competent institutions, means a commission that is responsible for the border to take a quick look at the initiative, which was submitted by me and my colleagues in the House of Representatives, that the border crossing of Gablea Polje-Metkovic at least temporarily be declared an international border crossing during the summer season, and thus facilitates the crossover of the border and to mitigate the economic damage to facilities with one and the other, economic facilities from one and the other borders. My envoy's question will be about the election, the next election – Will voting boxes, transparent ballot boxes appear in the next election? It is known that BiH is, in all studies, at the top of corruption, that the way our society operates is corruption, it is time for the institutions of the state to start fighting such a situation, against such a monster. And it's also known that the elections, so in the mosaic of corruption, the first stone of corruption happens in the elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the state institutions should respond to these challenges and make elections fair and correct, so as not to allow theft in elections as has happened in some previous elections. My question is – will this election show up at least in a transparent box so that some elections are correct and fair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4273	Thank you, fellow Krešić. Comrade Bradarić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4274	Mr. Chairman. I ask you, but really well-intentioned, why didn't you schedule an emergency, emergency, regular, and I don't know what kind of meeting of the House of Peoples, what does the Rules of Procedure say, right after the catastrophic floods that left the wilderness in most parts of BiH? Why don't we talk through information today, through the report on the consequences and plans of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the destroyed cities, municipalities, villages, etc.? I'd like you to give me an answer now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4275	I'll be happy to answer you, now it's only a matter of procedure, of the business procedures of this House, if I may ask you a question and you ask me a question. I don't think you can do that, but because of the public and the importance of keeping one collegiate in our work, to keep one atmosphere that is necessary in this House, I'm going to go out and I'm going to offer you five 13 sentences of response, which is possible to satisfy your needs, although this is absolutely not a business one. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. The home of the people has its very clear rules of conduct, which are very clearly defined, based on constitutions, laws and ultimately on all those business acts, here is which we will change in part today. And to that spirit, I am only one of you who, according to your choice, am part of the BiH House of Peoples College and in that rotation, the chairman. I have no right to convene a session of this House on any agenda point unless we have a basic prerequisite for that. I may have chosen one wrong path in communication with my associates, I still believe that it is correct and that the only way that can create a collegiate atmosphere regardless of what kind of party attitudes we have, whose attitudes we represent from which people. And I was also aware that when you personally went public a few times looking for some responsibility for a person who didn't schedule a home, the truth about now is some other issue you don't mention here, which today is on the agenda about what some have respected that we're on the blacklist if that session isn't being held definitively with, or first, before 01.06 this year. I was communicating at the time, which is my obligation, with most colleagues, and we claimed there was no technical prerequisite to schedule such a session, called it an emergency, urgent, regular, with one or another agenda, as I have been trying to do in the last six months at least five or six times. When, too, we have now filled one chair, just a colleague from your party, from your people, a colleague Hodžić is with us here today, we do not have a fellow Tihić yet, you know that we could not agree at all because we did not have a colleague, the conditions of business for the College to be convened, and then for the House to be called as such. You know we need... three of us to be representatives of one nation to hold a session, to schedule a session. The truth is I had it this time, and now I'm going to be incorrect to my colleague Genjac, but there's nothing wrong with it, I just, one of the colleagues I talked to was a fellow Genjac, that he asked me to even schedule a session whether we were there or not, so as to end it, with a wish that in some way, it was about the idea that we weren't the culprits for putting on BiH's blacklist for the adoption or not. I've also assessed that if we didn't have the opportunity to call in a session that we weren't doing it, if we didn't have the opportunity to hold a session normally that we're also not calling in order to gather together colleagues here and then, as we've already done two or three times, we'd come here and we'd argue that we're not enough. I thought it was just because of the ambience you're talking about right now under the point you just set up for me, the unconventional conditions we have in BiH today because of the catastrophic floods we've had. And pulling people to come to the session and we know it won't be enough for us to work normally, I thought it was unnecessary, irrational, and I didn't feel at all for the need to defend or take that burden of responsibility off myself, regardless of who he came from, he came from you personally, the SDP, HDZ or I don't know any third parties. So, the only thing that led me and motivated me was one professionality and responsibility to this House was completely relieved of any policy at that time. And so it will be while I am the chairman of this House. And all of you colleagues can count with complete confidence that I work as if you were sitting here and there are no improvisations or any political points. That's why I'm commenting on your question, not in any other way... in any other way absolutely commenting, but this pay phone, as president, I'm out, I don't want to pretend at all. Of course, I've been given a lot of questions about this, and here's what's now being mentioned in public for that list. I said even then that there were any conditions for it to be on the agenda before, so no matter what the concept of calling a session and that we got a minimum of 9, 3+3+3 14 so if there was more, that session would be safe, be assured, scheduled. Since I was convinced there was no such thing, I didn't want to transfer responsibility to anyone or look for a guilty person, because I've never been to any of the canceled sessions before because I don't think that's the way this House works. There are 15 representatives of us here, five from every nation, and I think it deserves a special collegiate relationship, and that's how I deal with the College. And now that we have a College that's back in business very clearly positioned, we're trying to make this College as much as it can do collegiately. That's how I behave in the commission where we work together, and we've been trying to make no decision in that commission come out of voting, whatever that means. And I think, here in these three years you've been sitting here with me, that no decision where I chaired has been made in any form of voting, but by looking for a common solution. That's the only reason we're getting to this House and why I'm still going to treat this House that way. The second question is why in the last two, three years we haven't solved these issues, it's a completely different question. I can speak of him as one envoy, here no longer as chairman, so to speak my position, but I don't want to, at the beginning of the agenda of this session, in any way abuse the microphone and speak something that would be interpreted as possible and as a pre-election campaign, because it's already open to us for five, six months, so if you want to go through the executive and legislative power in BiH as such. As for the people who died in these catastrophic floods, I as a man could make a contribution that I was a minor on the ground all the time, saw it or didn't see it, and I tried there at all marketing not to use it except a few times when it was simply impossible to avoid, and everything else was simply a need to be... I didn't enjoy anything else, I was visiting these people, and yesterday I was with these people, and last night I was with these people. We think that the House of People's session on this issue, which is the conclusion of the Colleges just now, should be quality prepared, should be prepared by the BiH institutions responsible for such a situation in BiH with a very clear cross-section of what has happened to us, what we have done so far and what we are about to do as BiH as a state, which has clearly not responded adequately to the temptations, including these millenniums, if you will, disasters that have hit us, not only us but the whole region as such. And that's the conclusion of the College. It could have been different, we took it off the agenda today by avoiding any improvisation and putting into context any pre-election activity this evil that has hit a large number of our people. Which means I expect when the BiH institutions prepare this adequate material, it must be the Council of Ministers with all those institutions vertically that this is already foreseen by the constitutions and laws, when this offer as a material will then be considered by the College and there is no reason not to have it on the agenda and to discuss it and to give one of our contributions to ease your pain to the extent that we can. Thank you very much. Comrade Bradarić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4276	Well, I don't know if it's according to the Rules of Procedure, but let me just take a few sentences. I was really well-intentioned, I didn't mean it, you don't have to be angry, so at least it seemed to me, I'm sure if you didn't do something that you didn't do it on purpose, but I come from a submerged, submerged, catastrophic and cataclysmic, completely torn, unhappy, sad Maglai. I'm not sure that any of the municipalities have been as unhappy as my Maglaj. I know that there are other municipalities and other cities that the fate of Maglaj has found, and perhaps in some smaller form, but there are Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak living down there in all these municipalities, and it would be good to sometimes protect interests, defend interests and Srbin, and Bošnjak, and Hrvat, and others, but when something 15 costs us. It's easy to defend one and the other and the third and the fifth and the tenth when nothing costs you or when, in a way, we're profiting politically. We were obliged, obliged to talk about it, talk, see what the situation is, the terrible situation, encourage those people who were in a very difficult situation, in an awkward situation. We should all be with them or at least send a message from here, so you would see, so we would see, don't be angry not to tell you but to all of us, that at that moment, and today people who are unhappy need masks, need gloves, need boots, need shovels, need rakes, need construction machines, and I'm sure that each of us with his authority could have called someone to help in that case. I'm, I'm finishing up, I don't think I can talk about it anymore, because it's all seen, it's all known, I'm convinced that the accident of those people who are submerged is double. It is his own and unfortunately, unfortunately, the happiness of others that they are not submerged. I'm not sure since these are unhappy in a very difficult situation, in no situation, they don't know where to start, I'm not sure they're not ready to take a piece of happiness from those who here this flood hasn't gone down, etc. And we have to stop it, and we have to stop it, and we have to help, we have to help these people in a faster, more efficient way. Unfortunately, I'm telling you, attention to these municipalities and the cities of fear and fear, how it's going to end, I really don't know. I'm more down than here, I'm with my own authority, or the position I'm fighting, but here we all have to do it in some way more and do it. Don't be really angry, I didn't mean you, so I appreciate you, I respect you, and I know for sure that you've done everything, but I think we should have scheduled one session, so the devil took the Rules of Procedure, the devil took it all away, but we should have talked and made some conclusions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4277	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Perhaps one addition to all the accidents of BiH residents, whoever they are, has shown a great heart and showed about how we should all behave on such occasions. And I think if she passed BiH somewhere and her residents the exam she passed on just on such occasions as they were challenging and difficult. kolega Ivanić, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4278	We've opened the agenda and I think it's really a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because right now we should all say something about this. And those of us who feel like it's gonna turn out that we don't feel sympathy for the people who got hurt, which absolutely doesn't stand. I'm really sorry. And I also don't think it's correct for the chairman to accuse him of not calling the session when we know very well that it's decided by the College at least. I'm very critical of Mr. Čović as president of a party that is in the majority, but I don't think there's any need for our political game to play here and do something responsible with what just doesn't stand. So I'm really asking you to let us stop this, and if we need a special session on this topic tomorrow, I'm up for it, but now we don't have a little competition here who cares more and who cares less. I don't see the need for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4279	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We're continuing on the agenda. The envoy's questions are exhausted. Is there anyone else? I don't see any interest in the application. There are no more reports. We're closing the second item of the agenda. 16 In accordance with the adopted agenda, i.e. changes to the agenda, point 3 will be the conclusion made by a colleague Bradarić and who has been adopted. Ad. 3. Proposal for a conclusion of the Bosniak People's Delegation Club I am opening a debate on this conclusion, i.e. on this agenda point. I don't see any reports. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate on the third item of the agenda. Here, I'm going to read the conclusion one more time, since most of them probably didn't get it, even though I was told you got it in writing. So, conclusion: – At its 38th session, this is already happening, within the third item of the agenda, the request of the BiH Council of Ministers will be reconsidered to consider, following an urgent procedure or haste procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in BiH, the Law: 01.02-02-117/14 of 11 April this year. Since there was a little uncertainty about the conclusion we can still leave open the possibility of a debate. I still don't see any reported, no interest in the application. So I'm closing the argument by point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4281	/not included microphony/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4282	Excuse me, colleague Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4283	So you know how, therefore, a man can't always deal with seeing the procedure itself and other things in a way that he's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, but we now have the next situation. So we have a situation that we've put on the agenda this proposal to conclude, and now we should say, in this conclusion, that we're practically making an extraordinary change, is that right, Mr. Genjac, the business procedure, to make this possible. Did I get this right? Because this isn't exactly a regular business procedure. Now there's a question in this whole context, so is there any reason for the Council of Ministers besides delegates, because this law wasn't written by these delegates? So now we should see what it is, what it's changed in the meantime, how we got this attitude, if we once said we didn't do this. Well, that's all I'd ask, just so we know what to tell people, I mean when this is over, how this decision came to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4284	Thank you very much, colleague Tadić. 17 We had a great opportunity to debate about this when we pleaded on the addition of the agenda. Most of us here have come forward and this has become an integral part of the agenda. We had a chance, and here you have contributed to the debate, and we have exhausted the debate. Behind that, we have a business vote on a proposal that we have on the agenda. Everything else is, when this session is over, we can discuss it further. Since I don't see any more applications for real, I'm closing the debate on the third agenda as well. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 14 - for 10, versus 3, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 7 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, RS 3 for, 2 against. We have a general, we have an entity majority, I understand that we have adopted the conclusion of envoy Mehmed Bradarić. We're moving on to... Since the conclusion has passed, we have been formally and the law, this is Mr Tadić's question, did we get the law from the Council of Ministers, as such? [[Disable microphone]] We didn't get it as such, and we're the only thing left to do now is to conclude that we've adopted this conclusion today and we've exhausted this agenda point. A fellow Genjac, a correction to the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4285	We have just adopted a conclusion, we have just adopted a conclusion that reads – At its 38th session, so today's session, within the third point, so this point, will be reconsidered by the Council of Ministers' request that the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accises be considered as an emergency procedure. So, we now need to approach a statement on the adoption of an emergency procedure and then a plea possible on the law if an emergency procedure is accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4286	If I can correct it. So, in our conclusion that we have put on the agenda as a proposal from your Club, which your colleague Bradarić made, it is said precisely that the draft law is being considered by an urgent procedure. And we adopted that. So... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, so we've adopted the conclusion that an emergency procedure is being considered, and that's how we've adopted how we're going to treat this legal solution. That's how it is in the conclusion we spoke of earlier. It is possible that he was not sufficiently eloquent and clear, etc., but that is why we had the opportunity to discuss this agenda point. And I'm going to ask you, for all further discussion, sign up for a word, so that we can all participate in our work together. So I think we, a fellow Genjac, are correcting the wrong quote. Here you go again. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4288	I mean, just a little, uh, I think we'll get along. So the conclusion is literally, we've adopted the conclusion, so we've adopted the conclusion. What did we find out? We have concluded this: – At its 38th session, so today, within the third point, so, this point at which we are at, will be reconsidered by the Council of Ministers' request that the draft law on amendments and amendments be considered as an emergency procedure. So now we need to approach the Council of Ministers' request to consider this law as a matter of urgency. Consideration means discussion and voting on emergency procedures. If an emergency procedure is accepted, it shall be joined by the vote on the law. We have adopted the conclusion that we will now consider the urgent review of this Law. That's what we adopted, that's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4289	Thank you, fellow Genjac. Correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4290	So obviously now we understand why I answered the word, right, I think, since I suppose there were... reasons why people would ask what this guy wants now. So, Mr. Genjac, you have a problem with two things. So one is the marks, and the other is the name of the dot. So, we've adopted the agenda and the name of that agenda point is that I find it here, the conclusion of delegate Bradarić. Right? Eh, he says, but says within the third item of the agenda, so you, I'm talking about commas, says – The House of Peoples will, at its 38th session, be stuck, within the third item of the agenda, and again, review the Council of Ministers' request, etc. So, you're voting on the agenda, you didn't adopt, you suggested a point, but you suggested a conclusion and the conclusion was adopted, but there's no point there. So the marks are the problem. So, you, when you put the decimal here, have put it this way - the conclusion - within the third item of the agenda, the House of People will reconsider at its 38th session the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to be considered as an emergency procedure, etc. That would be one thing, and you would have it as the name of the agenda point. But for this session, so you asked for the name of the agenda point, which is called the conclusion, the suggestion of the conclusion, I must return here again, I apologize, delegate Bradarić. It doesn't even say anything else, the conclusion of delegate Bradarić. The only material we have for this under the third item of the agenda is this conclusion. You should have, so that's why I asked the question. I didn't happen to say that we're changing business procedures now. You should have resolved this issue when adopting the agenda, so to speak – it is concluded that the business procedure for this need is changed, so that this session under the third agenda goes to this session. Eh, you'd be right then. And since the marks are like this, so this is also the name of the agenda point, we don't have the material now, we don't have the conditions to discuss this. So, I don't mind, look out, so I don't have most of it here, my voice is one. So if you want to schedule a session tomorrow and settle it or today, it doesn't matter. But the point is, now, you can, you know what you can do, you can now suggest a conclusion, that would be very nice, that you change the name of this agenda point, and then you can share us the material, and then we can get to the point. Well, you're looking for a break of 5, 10 minutes, get it ready, I don't mind. But don't make us work against the Rules of Procedure, especially when we adopt the Rules of Procedure today, so at least today it should be, as I would say, in accordance with the rules. So it's really nothing, here's just an effort to do as agreed, I mean by the rules of the game, here's what I call them. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4291	Thank you, colleague Tadić. Comrade Vrdoljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4292	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague Ivanić well noted that politics in the home is something, in this House is something that should not be a normal phenomenon. I hope not. This has already started to seem a little bit like going to politics in this House. In fact, I think the essence of what my colleague Bradarić suggested and what my colleague Genjac, here is trying to convince this dom, is clear to all the envoys here. Everything else we're doing right now is politics. On the other hand, it is absolutely clear to everyone here what this Law means for the relationship between the BiH state and both entities with the IMF. And if we don't care if this goes into the sense that we're dealing with the problem we're currently having with these tranches, then there's a question, I mean in our heads something, it's not clear to me at least. So I think that this is completely, I agree that this conclusion has been made clumsyly and that what counterpart Tadić explained can be explained in one way or another, absolutely. However, it is clear the essence of what has been proposed and I suggest, what Mr. Genjac has said, that we accept it, and that is how we spend this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4293	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. A fellow Raguž. Excuse me, colleague Simić, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vrdoljak, I fully agree with you that on this issue, and any questions, there should be no policy in the House of Peoples, given the relations and our positions. However, we have a serious problem – do we even have a request from the Council of Ministers? We don't have it. Here's the question of who's doing his job. I know what it means, and it's hard for me to talk about this because it was my last session that didn't go through, because I had an urgent phone call so I got out, so I missed my voice to pass it. Here, I am, in a certain way, the indirect culprit for what happened. However, we do not have a request, we have a request that has not received support, and now suddenly Mr Bradarić appears and proposes to support the request we have decided on. I agree with you that this is a very important issue, especially now in this context of these disasters that have found us, but give us some opportunity to bring this into the framework of the procedure. There may be a procedure very quickly, here sits Mr. Justice Minister, the Council of Ministers submits that request, a break is made, the conclusion we have already adopted, we decide. But now let's decide on a conclusion without the Council and that I am voting on it, and I don't have any material in this law at all, not to look at it, not to decide. I don't mind, here's what if someone thinks they need some Bosniak Club to take a break, try to get it straight, and I'll make it right and I'll make my mistake that last time I got out when my voice was missing. There you go. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4295	Thank you, fellow Simić. Your voice wasn't exactly missing, but it doesn't matter now. Comrade Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4296	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just going to brief the truth, so we don't have to be so uninformed about the law and not make a big story about it today. We've, if I'm not mistaken, got... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4297	Correction of the wrong allegation, whatever that means in our Rules of Procedure. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4298	I'll take a short while. I won't take much time. So, 29.05.2014, we got the proposed agenda. Among other things, this agenda was a report on the achievement of consent to this Law. How do we know and what the procedures are? It wasn't done. To me, it's a very clear conclusion. If we say we're not informed about the law, I'm not sure. And I think it's coming out of this that we can move on to procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4299	Thank you, fellow Rodić. kolega Tadić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4300	So, we're leaving now really maybe even in politics, here's the deal, Mr. Vrdoljak. The correction of the wrong quote refers to what Mr Rodić said on this occasion, about whether or not we can. Whether or not we can do that the Rules of Procedure said, and we can change that now, and the Rules of Procedure gave us great opportunities. Mr. Genjac wants a break, now as far as I know and otherwise a break, I don't know how it's going to be used,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4301	In five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4302	Yes, it can be prepared to end this. I, here to finish, with no intention of provoking anyone, this is a 200-year-old general attitude, so at least in this language where I speak, whenever I have a dilemma, let's say I have a majority in the party for something, I have a majority in an organ for something, a party or somewhere where I chair, it doesn't matter at all, I can vote something, a matter of mathematics, numbers, and I'm not sure that it's explained enough, or that there's enough opportunity for any party or party to say what it has to say, to take advantage of my right, I remember that sentence – whose law is in the topless trails smelled by something, and I give up, 21 just give up on the revote option. We need to remind ourselves how many times we've had the chance to see what revote means. So, I'll repeat, whose law lies in the topless tracks smell of insemination.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4303	That's what we had in elementary school.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4304	In elementary school, he did, so we all did. You and I went to the same... as I see.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4305	It's me in '64. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4306	Okay, me a little later. So let's just stick with it. He gave us a fine Rules of Procedure space so we didn't need a cannon for nothing, but that we could solve it humanly and go that way. There'll be a break, no problem, no hard feelings. It's all right, it doesn't hurt, and we're doing this job today.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4307	Thank you, fellow Tadić. Comrade Raguž, you're up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4308	Thank you, Mr. President. Patience saved, not just today, but otherwise. So, I didn't really mean to take your word for it, but when the debate about the decimals opened, then really a man gets, as a representative in this House, the need to say a few words. We're talking about the decimals at a time when it happens in the country what happens. And we heard what's going on, here's how I don't do grades and I don't want to do grades. And let's get a little bit more dignified, so if we need to move those marks behind one word to another, but let's do the essential role of this House and adopt this Law and let these people benefit from it, if we're fair to each other, but not to take the debate under the lines and refuse the possibility of solving today what is the responsibility of the House, which is to adopt this. And if we need a break, here's to give it, to agree and do our job. Here, in that context, I mean anything other than adopting this today would be less irresponsible. I can say that as a representative of the HDZ 1990... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4309	kolega Genjac, I would ask that now, with everything else you say, we also adjust the timing of the session, since we agreed at the College that at 12:45 or 12:50 we would definitely take a break because of the religious ritual we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4310	Thank you. 22 Let me remind you, the Council of Ministers submitted a request to Parliament on 11 April 2014 for this law to be considered by emergency procedure. Therefore, the formal basis that there is a request from the Council of Ministers is not disputed. We do not say in the conclusion of the Council of Ministers' request, but that we will reconsider the request... So the formal assumptions are clear. Next, the question of holding a cannon is a very disputable thing, because sometimes we feel like someone's holding a cannon and we're very tightly tightening it. So this is not about amending the Rules of Procedure at all, but rather about acting on the Rules of Procedure. Why? We had a session where an emergency procedure request did not receive the required number of votes, a request for a shortened procedure was received by most, but not entity. The alignment was supposed to be carried out. If a brief procedure had been carried out so far, we would have had that Law. So, we have a problem with the law in procedure, on the other hand, we have an IMF deadline. It is two tranches of 178 million KM, at this point the VAT revenue from taxes, very problematic budget functioning, their stability, etc. and we have the opportunity to adopt this Act, as the only remaining conditions by the end of June, these funds are operational. At this point, I don't see any commas, no matter how much he is, if there is, and there is no, which would be a reason to play like that. Therefore, having this all in mind, the conclusion is called for in Article 158(1) and (2). Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm saying it's in the Rules of Procedure. And Article 158, paragraphs 1 and 2, says – The House can, in its conclusion, regulate a particular question which is by no means or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure. Article 2 — the conclusion is binding only on the specific question referred to in Article 1. So we in this situation have a deadline and we have the law where it stopped. We have the possibility of resolving a procedural question in conclusion, in conclusion. So, Dom says - we want to do it like that in the Rules of Procedure, and Dom did it. And I don't see any problems here, no procedural, no business, no legal, unless we want to produce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4311	...with a proposal for a break. Well, here, I'll ask you to suggest it anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4312	So, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4313	45 minutes, will that be enough?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4314	Half to half, half to two (13:30).
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4315	45 minutes break. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] We have a quorum, and we hope that the other gentlemen will take their seats as well as our colleagues. Since we've taken a break, here's even a little longer now and made some consultations, I'm going to ask my Genjac Gents, since we've taken that break, to brief us. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4317	I thank the chairman. Certain consultations have been held on this break, and I think that I can then propose, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, that, in accordance with the adopted conclusion, we approach the examination of the requests, i.e. the review of the Council of Ministers' request for urgent consideration of the draft law. So that would mean we're considering a request, if we're going to have an emergency, we won't, if an emergency procedure is adopted afterwards, accessing the bill's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4318	Thank you, Genjac. Given that we have in some way concluded the debate on this agenda, I suggest we initiate the procedure for voting on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the draft law by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attendance 13 - for 10, v. 2, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 7 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, RS 3 for, 1 against. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree, the request for a review of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in BiH was adopted by a hasty procedure. I'm opening a debate under the bill. Who's answering for a word? A fellow Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4319	Thank you. This Law is also very much spoken about at the last session and in the public, etc., and there are certain issues that merit a reserve on the effects of this Law, and on the other hand very clear arguments on the need to adopt this Law for known reasons. I have no intention of speaking in more detail about the law because we have already said that, but I intend to suggest one conclusion if the law is adopted. This conclusion would read - that the House of Nations obliges the Council of Ministers to monitor the economic effects of the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accises and in the event of negative effects to propose the necessary amendments to the Law. So, I suggest that this law, of course, would be stated if the law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4320	Thank you. Molić give that conclusion in writing. I don't see the rest of my colleagues, and my colleague Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4321	Thank you very much. Here, I was indeed, and I was a little while ago actually restrained when it comes to the procedure of this Law, because I really don't think this Law is good, that this law on excise duties on tobacco and tobacco processing, in my opinion, belongs, in a way, to the social category. And no matter what I'm 24 and many people are propagating for health, people give up tobacco, but it's kind of their right, and many of them have moved on to tobacco because of the collection of cigarettes. In this case we equate the price of tobacco and tobacco processing with the price of cigarettes and I personally don't think this law is good. In that sense, and I do not see that, for some other reasons, there will be an increase in income, here I am a colleague who has advocated a bill like this asking the institutions to sort of monitor the effects of these excise duties, in this sense I consider it in a special way that this law affects and is a direct blow to the areas where tobacco is grown, and that is, I do not know, from Posavina to Herzegovina, and personally with such a proposal for excise duty on tobacco processing I will be against this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4322	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Is anyone else answering for word? We don't have a report, I don't see any interest in the application. True, there would now be much to talk about, but one key reason why we approached this amendment and complemented it the way we did. This is the relationship with the International Monetary Fund, everything else is in another context. And even what we wanted, and what my colleague Krišto said, I basically think that maybe through this conclusion we can use and go further to the interventions that were necessary for this law and which we simply won't be able to do because of access to the procedure when it comes to this law. So, here it is, I'm going to ask your fellow Genjac to have this conclusion, because we're going to go behind it, because we're going to declare ourselves in writing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. I'm closing the debate because there are no more applications, and I don't see any interest in the application. So I'm going to beg you to initiate the voting procedure. So we are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act in BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 9, versus 3, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, 1 abstention, RS 3 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties in BiH has been adopted. And now I'm going to ask you to initiate the voting procedure for the conclusion proposed by your colleague, Genjac. Thank you. Attending 14 — 12, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 3 for, 2 abstentions. We have a general and entity majority. I'm saying, we've adopted the conclusion, and here I'm going to say, which is proposed by a fellow Genjac, since there's no conclusion here. We're going to the point of four today's agenda, 25 Ads. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4326	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4327	Someone fell out of our voting structure, so we'll wait one second, technical repair please. Comrade Tadić, I'm not letting the SDS fall out of the process yet, so give this one. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You have different techniques so you don't come forward, so you see. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 — for 12.1 abstention. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 3 for, 1 against. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities has been passed. Moving to the next item of the agenda, item six, ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4330	I'd ask you on behalf of the Bosniak Club one break a dozen minutes just. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4331	Will it be enough for five or ten minutes, not to go out, because that's what I'm talking about since we've already...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4332	Five to ten minutes will be enough, you don't have to go out.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4333	Okay. A five to 10 minute break, and I'm going to ask you not to go too far so our sessions don't go away long at night. [[PAUZA]] I suggest we get back to work. I'm going to ask my fellow Genjac to comment briefly on his work after this break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4335	... it is generally known that this Law, as well as the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, is one of the obligations BiH has made in the context of meeting standards and its international obligations. We have just passed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and since, according to the consultations we have carried out, there is no willingness to consider the Law on Complementarity of the Criminal Law of BiH either in an emergency or in a shortened procedure. So we won't have the required number of votes, especially the very likely variant is that this would be an insufficient number of votes per entity and the necessary alignment. In a situation where we don't have a complete college that can't comply, it would mean that the Law is on hold and without any active treatment until further notice, which is the most unfavourable variant. The far better option is to keep the law alive and try as long as possible by cutting deadlines to get that Law. And for these reasons, we will be against the shortened procedure because it time-consuming means nothing,...the shortened and regular procedures are defacto of the same time procedure. By refusing to shorten procedures, the Law goes into regular procedure automatically according to the Rules of Procedure and it has first reading, second reading, commission phases, possibility of discussion, so the law remains in active life. And of course, it's our thing that we can further cut those deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4336	Thank you. kolega Ivanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4337	I have to make a joke, but really as soon as I knew I was looking for a break, I knew that the master of the procedure with, of course, advisors who helped him get there, made sure that no definitive decision was made today. But I ask all the structures to let me and Mr. Tadić go a little bit in peace, and to call the ruling structures in the next 15 days until I assume they will plead on this topic. So, I'm going to stay with that attitude that I said before, and it doesn't occur to me to be more Catholic than the Pope, to have a ruling talk with them, and as far as I'm concerned, 28 at least in my own name I can say there's no need for anyone to call me for the next 15 days, concentrate on the ruling structure of the RS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4338	Okay, you're the one, my colleague Ivanic. I don't know who you're talking to right now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm guessing the ambience around us.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4340	Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4341	True, this three times you said ruling, I was going to ask you who are ruling, but the last one you said in RS, so you were very clear so I don't have to ask any more questions about it. Do we have any other comments, because we don't have an application? I don't see any interest in applying to this kind of collegiate environment around us, which is good. I suggest we initiate the voting procedure. So we're voting on the procedure of whether or not we're going to consider the bill by a brief procedure, in accordance with Article 121 of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We have interesting colors on display, at least at my place. Present 13 - for 2, versus 9, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 2 for, 6 against, 1 abstention, RS 3 against, 1 abstention. We don't have a general majority. I agree, the request for a review of the Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH has not been adopted under the shortened procedure We are moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Border Control (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH. The commission accepted the text of the bill along with four amendments, the amendment. At the 66th session, held in 1405, the House of Representatives adopted the draft law in a second reading also with the four amendments. I give my word to my colleague, Krišto, if there's any need. kolegica Krišto, you've already agreed with Martin, should anything be added to this?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4343	29 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4344	You don't have to, thank you. Now I give my word to the motionary, if he has a proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone out for a word? No Niko's answering for a word, and I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. Please initiate voting procedure. We're voting on the bill. Thank you. Attending 13 — for 12.1 abstention. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 4 for, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Border Control was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We're going to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4347	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4348	No, thank you very much. Is there a need for the Proposer of the Law? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I don't have a report, I don't see any interest, I'm closing the debate. 30 We vote on the bill. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - for 12.1 abstention. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 4 for, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the Law supplementing the Law on BiH's Defence is passed. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Documents (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4351	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4352	No, thank you very much. Now I give my word to the bill's promoter if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the bill. We don't have a report. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. Please initiate voting procedure. We're voting on the bill. Thank you. Attending 13 - all for. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, the Law on Electronic Documents has been passed. I also find that the Law on the Electronic Document has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that we need to form a Joint Committee on Text Consensus. I will ask you on behalf of the clubs to propose members of this committee. On behalf of the Croatian people, colleague Krišto? 31
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4354	Here, on behalf of the Croatian People's Club, I propose Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4355	Thank you very much. In the name of the Bosniak people? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. On behalf of the Serbian people?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4357	In the name of the Serbian people, Mr. Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4358	Thank you. We are voting on a proposal for members of the Joint Committee to bring the text of the Law into line. Please initiate voting procedure. So, colleague Raguž, Hodžić, Košarac. Thank you. At present 13 - for 12, I guess this is a mistake but here we won't have to do it, okay, we don't have to repeat 1 in abstention. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 abstained by mistake, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, for members of the Committee for Harmonization of the text of the Law of the House of Nations, a colleague of Raguž, a colleague of Hodžić, a colleague of Košarac were appointed. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the preparation of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (second reading) So, we're discussing, we're having a debate on amendments... it's a vote on the Rules of Procedure's proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Committee adopted the text of the Rules of Procedure together with 19 amendments, and proposes to adopt the House together with these amendments. A colleague of Genjac and his colleague Simić, in accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have submitted new amendments. I give my word to my colleague Simić, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Is there a need? 32
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4360	Chairman, as you said, we adopted 19 amendments on the Constitutional Legal Commission, with most of these amendments being aimed at accepting solutions adopted in the House of Representatives and making both Rules of Procedure consistent, simply on the matter that we regulate in the same way and arrange for it to be. However, since there was a lot of work in the Report, one technical error was stolen, it is about Amendment XVII, what was adopted, beyond the word, in Article 184. I've got it written here, so it's just complementing one mistake that was missed when writing at the session itself. And I'll talk about my amendment especially later.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4361	Thank you, fellow Simić. I give the word to the legislators. Is there a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4362	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4363	No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. This means that a colleague of Genjac, who we do not have here, will have to comment on his repairs as well as his colleague Simić. Here comes the turn. ISimić ask my fellow Genjac if we can find him, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4364	My subsequent amendment is also from the field of legal technique, because we are simply at a session, which was really and very high-quality and has raised a lot of questions, we have failed to make a correction after these adopted amendments, so you have the amendment on the table. In Article 180, which became a member of 186. - number 189 is changed by 185. And nothing more. So there's no point, technically it's just a question we missed about it. And when it comes to Mr. Genjac's amendment, we have to wait for him, because he's opening up a serious and fundamental question that we need to resolve here.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4365	All right, by the time my fellow Genjac gets here, we can handle the procedure further. Since you have made your amendment, we are opening a debate on this amendment and we will have to make a statement on the proposal for your amendment. Do we have any comments? I can't see, colleague Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4366	Thank you. 33 Behold, I have understood, there is also an open discussion of the Rules of Procedure, meaning the amendments, and regardless of the fact that there is no fellow Genjac I will also take the opportunity to say something about this Rules of Procedure and this work, even though we remembered it in short lines at the last session when we adopted this Rules of Procedure of the People's House in the first reading. Now, as my colleague said, we have, have I been one of the members of our Interim Joint Committee on the Making of Rules of Procedure, and indeed we have made a great deal of effort and effort to reach some text that we have had. And I'd like to remind everyone here of the honourable envoys and envoys that actually what was the product of these amendments to these Rules of Procedures, there were some around 24, actually it was something that was and actually controversial in the Joint Committee on the Making of Rules of Procedure. And of course, I expected we wouldn't have this number of amendments, but here's really about a number of amendments, that's 19, we tried to come up with some kind of compromise. The truth and in one way for this compromise was that this kind of amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives, when it came to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, so we tried somehow to be legally consistent and consistent, so that even the solutions in the Rules of Procedure of the House of People were in some way so, yes. We were particularly concerned about the provisions regulated by the Rules of Procedure which concern, I don't know, joint commissions, the procedure concerning the reading of the law and the very procedure for the adoption of the law. However, there are some things, here and among other things, that is also the situation when it comes to authentic interpretation of the law is the same and it would concern one and the other home, but we had this one situation that we had at the beginning, so to say, the unique view that we should delete authentic interpretation, because authentic interpretation itself is one great legal uncertainty, and we have a lot of that legal uncertainty and from the aspect of the regulations and from the aspect, let me say, the institution, so I can freely state BiH itself, and we have in some way concluded even in our public debates, which were conducted in the Rules here in the Parliamentary Assembly, one of the conclusions was to abolish this authentic interpretation of the law, because we believe that the only legal certainty can be ensured through the amendments to the law. And even through the practice that we had, here and as a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, we are everywhere, letters and requests that we have received and related to authentic interpretation, we have seen that they are not actually a matter of authentic interpretation, norm would be clear and accurate, etc., so that we did not engage, to say, in such things. I am expressing my position here and I will say it, and my position on the Committee was that, too, that we should delete authentic interpretation, so in the sense of that, I would pray once again, although there is no fellow Genjac, that he would withdraw his amendment, as he did yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, because we had such a situation on the Constitutional Commission that we could come into a situation that in some way neither of the other positions, when it comes to authentic interpretation, because we had one member in the Committee, means from every nation except the Srbin were two. So we tried to come up with some kind of compromise, so we said that a colleague would withdraw to pass the amendment of counterpart Simić on the erasure. Of course, this morning, I say, I was surprised to see that this amendment was tabled on the House itself, to stay. He is indeed in some sense in relation to the existing text a little in another way accessing this authentic interpretation, but here, I say, I would also like to ask everyone to do anything to get to the Rules of Procedure as we have with the adopted amendments, these 19, and of course this one, what fellow Simić suggests, and it refers to the technical part that is of course necessary. I think that this way we're going to come up with a little more efficient procedures, to simpler, sort of harmonised things and procedures regarding the Rules of Procedure of each and the other home, and that this request for authentic interpretation from this Rules of Procedure is being deleted. And that in no way will we raise the question of whether another House's Rules of Procedure works, in one way or another 34 will do so in their home, or not, because even though it is not deleted, it cannot be interpreted or applied for authentic interpretation in one House, or in one constitutional committee. Here, in terms of that, I would say once again, I will support the amendment and I would ask my colleagues, Krstan Simić, and my fellow Genjac, would beg either to withdraw or not to support it, although we should go to one legal certainty as it is in the whole environment. There is no requirement anywhere for authentic interpretation except BiH, or even beyond. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4367	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just spoke on behalf of the Commission, and now I'm going to say a few words on my own behalf. The Institute of Law interpretation since World War II did not exist in any country of Europe or country that had far, far greater democratic standards built, far higher standards of rule of law and protection and citizens in each segment. Unfortunately, this institute only existed in Stalin's Russia in '45. and those later years when we were much under the influence of Russia, we also transferred the institute to our legislation, the former Yugoslavia, and then, by the inert, it remained in some countries. We, when dealing with this issue on the Commission that was supposed to make a proposal, then we checked and the only state that kept that institute was Montenegro. However, Montenegro also abolished afterwards. Today, there is no state in the world, no modern legal system that has an institution to interpret the law. Our old people used to say, "Don't just walk past the world." Often Bosnia goes beyond the world, often by the world Bosnia offers solutions that do not exist in its legal or other system. And I really don't see any reason for this one, I'm going to say now, legally... the age of Stalinism to remain here. Mrs. Krišto was talking about our practice that we had, almost never used this institute, but practice doesn't matter, it's far more important here that this becomes a domain of law. The interpretation of the law, if we accept and give some interpretation, improve, it's a change of law, it's a change of law beyond the procedure that changes the law. And I really don't have any reservations that this institute shouldn't have been before, but if it was, and that's why I think this amendment should also be supported and supported by the Rules of Procedure. I must say that there are often problems in this House with the harmonisation of certain issues. And this Rules of Procedure, working on the Rules of Procedure, with a tremendous effort and work carried in it one energy that was necessary to come to a compromise. There are a lot more things to change here, there are a lot of things that need to be improved, there are a lot of things that can make this Parliament's work and the House of Representatives more efficient, but we think it was maximum at this point. And it would indeed be very, very unfavourable, bad, if this job did not end in this term with this Rules of Procedure, which has nevertheless improved many things both in language and in technical and even organisational terms. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4369	Thank you, colleague Simić. Comrade Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4370	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to say a few words, because I have the impression that if I didn't say so, first of all as a member of the Commission who worked on these Rules of Procedure, as a member of the Constitutional Commission who yesterday made his decision on the amendments made to the Rules of Procedure, and I think that we have done both one big job and one big step forward and continued, i.e. we have created the conditions to adopt an act that many things in this House have not been very well solved by this Rules of Procedure. The competencies of committees, certain legal gaps that have not been resolved and answered certain questions which we have addressed in this mandate, and I will say that when there has been a shift and certain ministers, compliance with the Council of Ministers Act and many other solutions which are in this text and the Rules of Procedure proposal that we have now completely resolved. I think that this Rules of Procedure has provided answers from decision-making in the College, in committees, in power, I think that many solutions are more rational and clearer and that conditions have been created to reach the Rules of Procedure today, which, as far as it seems, despite the huge work done in the previous term, has not resulted in success. What we've brought here today in, I think, certain dilemmas, although we haven't had a dilemma, and I wouldn't say, even though my colleagues on the Constitutional Commission yesterday have exhausted all the time dealing with this Rules of Procedure, we have left one question that has been left at the end and in the finals of this decision, meaning the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, the rest still unclear. A whole series of round tables talked about authentic interpretation. A good part of the Commission's work is dedicated to authentic interpretation and we have heard many arguments for and against. We came to the Commission yesterday and we had and as far as I know, the House of Representatives in its Rules of Procedure left that institution with authentic interpretation. My opinion was, and I will not repeat myself, as colleagues Simić and Krišto, that it is an institute that has been overcome, which, by the very use of this institute, we are passing laws, etc. After all, experiencedly, what we were doing on constitutional law commissions when we had authentic interpretations was largely ending that the norm was clear and that was all so far. Why did I answer that? In addition to saying that this Rules of Procedure has been well improved, that it has answered many questions, I think we should, here, resolve this question, not to go to the voting stage, simply try to come up with some solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4371	Thank you, fellow Rodić. My fellow Genjac, there have been a lot of questions referred to you, I hope you've managed to hear them somehow.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4372	I'll assume those questions even though I haven't heard them and I'll answer them all.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4373	It's a skill. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4374	That's the answer. So it absolutely says that we've been discussing this issue for a long time and it absolutely says that it's a pretty out-of-date institute. What sort of premeditated me to put this amendment in, in a way, maybe even publicly here, to say what this means now. The House of Representatives adopted some version of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure on authentic interpretation and there it remained. On our commission of constitutional law, it was decided that this part of the authentic interpretation should be cast out. This defacto means that if there is no authentic interpretation in the House of Nations, there is no authentic interpretation in the Parliamentary Assembly. So it can't just be one home that provides authentic interpretation. And that's how it is. In light of what has been happening so far, I would say and I would say, productively, and on the Constitutional Commission, by making these amendments and by contributing in some way through the Commission, and even today here to finally adopt this Rules of Procedure, I will withdraw this amendment. If it turns out in practice that we have problems we can find a solution in the Rules of Procedure and add some kind of solution, but I think it would be far more important that we finally adopt this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4375	There are no more reports for discussion. Shall we vote for the proposed amendments? Mr. Simić has an amendment. Here you go. /Shortly interrupted video/ So we have two amendments to Mr Simić in total, right? _________(?) One is technical.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4380	Thank you very much. My apologies. Since the Law was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples appointed representatives Krišto, Rodić and his colleague Genjac at the 37th session, held on 29th of April in the Joint Commission. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the law reached agreement at the session held on 27th of this year on the same text of the Law and the report on which we are to be made known today. The Joint Commission proposes to the House to adopt the Report and adopt the single text of the Law on the Completion of the Penal Code of BiH with amendments adopted by the Joint Commission. At the 67th session, held on 28.05 this year, the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of the same text. I give my word to my fellow Genjac if there's any need. There's no fellow Genjac. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We are voting on the Report of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on achieving the same text of the Law on the Completion of the Penal Code of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 — for 12, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 8 for, RS 4 for, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the report adopted by the Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on the achievement of the same text of the law supplementing the BiH Penal Code was adopted. Moving to the next, 12th agenda, 38rd Ad. 12. Information on the analysis of the results and effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 02-50-6-16-34/14 and 02-50-19-218/14, of 07.02.2014, 02-50-7-17-34/13 and 02-50-6-16-30/13, of 11.11.2013; 02-50-7-7-7-34,4/13 and 02-50-6-16-30/13, of 16.09.2013, 02-50-6-16-30/13 and 02-50-7-17-34/13, of 16.09.2013. At its 34th session, held on 17 July and 2013 respectively, the National College decided and requested from the Office of the High Representative in BiH, the Court of BiH, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Ministry of Justice to provide information on the analysis of the results and effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Information on the analysis of the results and effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in BiH was provided by the BiH Ministry of Justice, the BiH Court of Justice, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Office of the High Representative in BiH. The constitutional committee discussed the information on the analysis of the results and effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges delivered by the BiH Justice Ministry. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission did not receive knowledge of the Information, and suggests that the House take a thorough look at the Information from all aspects in order to create conditions for the quality work of BiH prosecutors and judges. I give my word to my colleague Simić, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4382	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4383	No need, thank you very much. I give the word to the applicants. Since I don't see them around most of the time, if I'm not mistaken, is there any need? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? We have every time, just as our colleague Ivanić stands up, we have last taken off the agenda and promised, regardless of whether or not we will get the Report, whether or not there will be any submissions to the Report, that we will conduct the debate. For that reason, we discussed it that way today. My colleague Ivanic, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4385	As much as this is a joke, it's not a joke, but it wasn't the first one, you weren't well informed. I'm glad we finally have a chance to talk about this. Although some of the holders of these judicial functions have even publicly accused me of acting against the court for insisting on this subject being discussed, I think it was quite the other way around, that my insistence on discussing this topic in the function of affirmation. First of all, domestic prosecutors, domestic judges and the removal of a large taboo that existed that international judges and 39 prosecutors were the only powerful and only ones who knew how to do something in this area. It turned out to be the other way around. I don't think I'm going to say anything, but in many cases, international judges and prosecutors were an instrument of politics, not knowledge or profession. And it came from these very superficial analyses that we had a chance to get, but from character... you still see fear of grades. No Niko actually had the courage to give a grade. Serious institutions are calling for some NGOs, putting in references without a bet on whether it was useful for BiH to have international judges and prosecutors or not. To what extent it was useful and what were the problems. This should one day, someone will probably have the courage to do it, not because of BiH, but because of similar activities and elsewhere in the world. I am convinced and I have my information from international institutions that they know that at one stage, after the initial period when people who truly wanted to help the judiciary came, this turned into a mechanism of hiring officials from international institutions here who, with the prosecution, had nothing and who, apart from supporting bureaucratic structures within the particularly former OHR, had no other reference. And a lot of cases like that, and we all know that just because nobody says it. Of course... and what I'm talking about today is dangerous, but I feel a kind of obligation to say my position, to say that there have been a lot of people who have been trying to affirm themselves to a very strange, I would say a little, I often know, I'm convinced of that, a way that reminds me of the constant processes created. And time will show once, when things could be said, what was happening and why, and that very often it could be paid the price of a political attitude that someone didn't like with similar moves. I was the prime minister, and Mr. Simić tells me you got what you asked, who asked the foreign judges and prosecutors to come, convinced that we would get knowledge, quality and affirmation. And when I became a very good foreign minister who knew exactly what an empty story was, and what is a concrete move and interest. BiH was a mechanism for affirming people through these institutions that could not have been anything in their countries, and we here were able to do such difficult things that no one was responsible for afterwards. I am convinced that there are cases in which some of these people have committed crimes themselves. Unfortunately, we can't go after them because they had protection and they still have diplomatic protection. I know that there have been people who have abused their positions for the affirmation of certain companies, and I have evidence of that, but I repeat, I am aware that there is nothing that can be done, and there is no environment for these things to talk about, so I'm not going to do any concrete things... This country needs a truly neutral judiciary. Many of our prosecutors and judges have paid the price of their position. Many were not chosen because they had an attitude and did not listen blindly. Many had to go and be lawyers today, very respectable people, because they had an attitude and did not bend, many of these people did not bend their heads. I must say that I also admire many current prosecutors and judges who had the courage to in one repression, and I know what that building looked like where no one should have said anything, who had the courage to have their own attitude and to hold it to the end firmly and clearly. And don't get me wrong, I don't think all the international judges and prosecutors were like that. I distinguish people who did professional work, who didn't go out in the media, I distinguish people who did their job responsibly, and there were plenty of them, from those who used the media for their promotion, who abused the media and privileged journalists by giving them information, semi-information, quasi-states, and organizing around them the whole kind of structure that actually worked for them, for their affirmation and attempt at their own identity. I hope it'll come for a while that someone really serious, not me, I'm not a man who can give an analysis of this kind, but someone really serious comes in and makes a real analysis of how much money has been spent, how many cases have been completed and if it's all worth it. Without it, sooner or later, 40 will be nothing. The fact that we've been dragging this out for three or four years, what, three, three, it seems to me, three, that we're getting memos where everyone's fenced that it's not theirs to give a grade. And the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that transfers to OHR, the OHR who appointed judges and then transfers it to some NGOs to read their analysis and evaluations, the chief prosecutor who says I neither set up nor analyzed, the court too. It actually shows that everyone is running away from it, and here I am going to have the courage to say they're afraid to give their own assessment and their own attitude. I guess at some point there will be conditions that can be talked about perfectly normally without the pretense that any of us are affecting this decision or that decision. But that lesson that officials, instead of true judges, experienced, who had very good salaries, will be the ones who will teach our judges how to conduct processes, people who are thousands of times more experienced than them, is something that was actually the only real failure of this reform, and that positive part that was particularly present at first, I think that later completely lost and broke. And that is what is the final message: not to give absolute authority to anyone, nor to the OHR. It doesn't give anyone absolute authority, nor does the Democrats from the most democratic countries, because all of this is being unloaded and then, like every dictator, a man begins to use both the court, and the prosecution, and Parliament and all the other instruments for the realization of his own ideas, and there is a complete deformation of good desire at the beginning. I'm sorry, and this concludes my future comment on any foreign judges and prosecutors in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4386	Thank you, fellow Ivanic. My kolegica Krišto, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4387	Here, on the agenda, we have a long-awaited analysis of the work and effects of foreign judges and prosecutors. Well, in the end, no matter how long we've waited for such information, actually what we've got in the material, in a way we almost have no basis to discuss anything. In fact, what we got in this information is some statistical figures, that's something that is organisationally within the jurisdiction of VSTV, the prosecution or the Ministry of Justice, which has provided us and introduced us to what kind of departments there are, how many departments people are employed by, how many cases have been solved and so on. What the Ministry of Justice, through which we have sought this sort of complete information, has delivered to us, is also no surprise since it is not available and has no jurisdiction to collect data and reports and to analyse these judicial institutions and holders of justice functions, thus neither foreign judges nor prosecutors. But what we all know, here's what my colleague said, we're asking a lot of questions and I think it's normal to say here that a lot of things are familiar to us when it comes to the work of judicial institutions, not only, I would say, from the media, but from concrete things and we're following, because it's one institution or pillar of government in BiH, so it's right to set certain things up when it comes to the effects of foreign judges and prosecutors, because we know that many of the charges they've been making just to get people out of certain positions, and to be a direct blow to certain people and their families. We are asking in this regard the question of the jurisdiction of the judges. I don't know if anyone here said that, and I mentioned it on our commission, we also had a deputy chief prosecutor present here who also confirmed things to us that those in the prosecution never have any information and that they don't know who the people who are employees are, whether they meet the basic conditions for working in the judicial institutions. In my knowledge, we know that people who weren't even graduate lawyers worked in such institutions, let alone that they had a certain 41 experiences, etc., may have been chefs, waiters, etc. You know, that's what they decided about our fates, so, of course, it's not surprising the outcome of such actions. But the question of the victim again arises, who are all victims of this kind of procedure, what about these people, what about their families? The chief prosecutor means he didn't have any authority, and he wrote it, and he didn't evaluate it, and there were neither certain contacts nor any co-operation, nor any suggestions to make from other institutions. So in that sense, let's ask ourselves, what about the cases both Jelavić and Branković, Ivanić, Šarović, and Čović and others, what about these cases today, and they are actually the victim of BiH institutions. Because whatever you're telling me, whatever you're saying about foreign judges and prosecutors, this goes to the address of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I am only saying this because it really is a blow to the institutions and to all other citizens, and we stand for an independent judiciary and equality before the law, because indeed there are people who are moral and who have certainly based their decisions in such institutions on the Constitution, the law and morals. When we add to this everything and the fact that these actions are so expensive, then we see that these damages are far greater, even though I first put damage in the sense of each individual's sacrifice, and then his family, and then we must not ignore that financial effect. In fact, this debate of mine in this sense is such that BiH institutions really have to do something about the judicial system. In fact, I think we should make one thorough reorganisation of the judiciary that will have a responsibility. We know everything and we're talking about what these are, what these are, because justice institutions don't respond to anyone. So far, we've had at least some judicial administration through a certain portfolio, and that was the Department of Justice, so we could at least ask some of these things, call someone, hold someone responsible. Today these institutions are not responding to anyone. We have information today either this one or someone else we receive to know or not, I don't know what that means to us. So, in the sense of this too, my proposal will be in the context and the proposals that we have on the Constitutional Court, considering this information, and we believe that this institution may need to make one thorough and perhaps a special debate at home within the framework of the judiciary, and in the context of a particular reorganisation that would involve, above all, the responsibility of these institutions, as well as of course of all others, and in the sense that it is truly independent in every respect and independent in terms of making its decisions and only dependent on the Constitution, law and morality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4388	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am pleased that this report was in the process, which we are considering, but from the aspect of each other. I see no reason for the judicial institutions doing a certain job with their reports to come to Parliament. There's always a fight to be fought whether they should come or not. Here, this report is the reason that it's basically a painless process, if we approach it in a serious way. 42 I didn’t expect any more of this report, because this is simply a report on the work or the unhappiness of a segment of our society, which was a classical alienated center of power. If the D.A. tells you that he had no information or what they were doing, or how they're doing, and I was personally told by one of the chief prosecutors that they were afraid to even listen to him, it's not the state of this report, it's the state of the state. The state of the country is also that we took off asking for foreign judges and prosecutors to come to us by persistently denying our own quality, our own value, our own ability to carry our own burden. Where it exists already in banana states. I never wanted to accept that BiH, in addition to all the injuries it has suffered, should accept the status of the banana state. Simply, I was here when I told Mr. Ivanic, I said more in a joke but now he's given me a creamword, I resent the institutions, there were members of the SNSD who have accepted, that prosecutors or judges are coming to us and that we really have no idea who it is, what way it works and how it works and to be excluded under the control of the attorney general's institution. That was the first mistake. One of my good friends says they're modern dogs of war. They used to say they were honest, so they took guns and went to the Foreign Legion, these nice challenges of conflict, they created anarchy, they created a need and came as gentlemen in suits, they took huge wages and did their job. This report contains enough elements for us to conclude that it was very, largely very small work both, and I don't know if the Centre of Civil Initiatives will make a calculation of how much it cost their subject, and I'd like to see what it looks like. But what is most painful about this report is that we really have one period that we reasonably suspect was the period in which political processes were conducted in the 21st century in BiH. That's the key question here. It is a key question whether certain persons, certain holders of functions, certain representatives of the people, were at some point the victims of some alienated centres of power who felt that they were the brakes to hold someone and something. That's what we have to face. We have to get a report one day, as we do today in the books of Abdulah Sidran and Antoni Isaković and Rajko Grlić's mother, which was Goli Island. We're going to have to get an answer to this question very quickly from society, not from the chief prosecutor, that we don't tie this to the chief prosecutor's work, whether the processes were installed here. I recently had the opportunity to read one of the decisions that was released and the last one from Ivanić's affair, may Mladen excuse me for mentioning him, where the prosecutor himself wrote in the paragraph that he stated, and this prosecutor who is a little bit this star in the prosecutor's system on sound cases, that he had absolutely no influence on the case. It's paragraph 35. It's about Miri Jurišić. When you read that you have to be concerned, you have to ask yourself a question – is it possible that simply the prosecutor in the process that ends, and says, I had no influence. So who was chasing these people? 13 people are either meant to be 12, 13 and they're all set free. When I spoke to an international expert and mentioned it to him, he said about the following – so listen, you have a good side. I said that's the good side. He says, well, you have a good court that had the strength and the courage to free these people. Great, and what if it was part of that directorship that people were removed because of political persecution, removed? If anyone, of those who assess this work as positive, asks what those people's families have survived, they have survived mothers, children, wives, themselves, coming to that gate 30 times. And in this case that I was talking about, I'm now going to tell you absolutely the prosecutor who conducted this procedure, the party, who was no longer here, far away from his house, was coming to the Prosecutor's Office of the District of Banja Luka and asked the prosecutor to prosecute these people in a criminal and legal sense. When the people in the D.A. said -- there's nothing, the BiH Prosecutor's Office took over, that foreign factor, to call it that, took over the case and set up a big hall, that it was a public secret that this judge was a consultant to the firm, help me Mladen, the Balkans... Balkan America. People, when we hear it, it's very dangerous, very dangerous to even think about what's been happening to us. So the key question here is that someone, whether Parliament will insist on it, will come into a position, whether there have been political persecutions. The second question, Mrs. Krišto, has been mentioned, and it is related to an independent judiciary. I agree that the standard of independent justice and professional, of course, is the foundation of every 43 societies, whether they are prosecutors, whether they are judges. However, I must ask one question – whether we MPs of public words, public action, public work, accept it, because there are very frequent media comments, which largely question the independence of the judiciary, because it can be seen as pressure. Do politicians often declare certain items, certain faces guilty or liberating by their trips? And that, you'll agree, is pressure on the judiciary. If we are to cultivate an independent judiciary, if we are to cultivate an independent judiciary, a free judiciary, we must also make a very, very significant contribution to that, but I see no reason and that the judiciary is so far away from control that it has no insight into these matters. You have further certain phenomena where the judiciary, that's what I said last time, shows a significant cowardice. Now I'm gonna talk about the D.A.'s office. You have a report against Mr. Atif Dudaković. Of course I'm neither a prosecutor nor a lawyer, but for five years, no, nine years, that's about 2005, '06, no application, no decision. Do you know how much media talk about it, how much... that's been spent on? Please, the prosecution must have the power to come out and say – Mr. Dudaković has the elements to be charged or not, no. The items that destabilize this country must in a certain way be a priority to the prosecution, must be a priority to things, but it must be courageously released and prevented. You saw what happened to the Hague tribunal. People spoke of the verdicts that never read the UN tribunal's verdicts. These were analyses, they were, I don't know, people who don't do this profession or even semi-literate. But the simple attitude was dependent on whose member was tried, if it was a Srbin, an injustice, if the Bošnjak was a little convicted or vice versa,... And that's why I want to send a message, in the end with another digression, that it is necessary to resolve these issues, and that we, on our part, have to support the independence of the judiciary, that the responsibility they have in selecting the staff, that often very, very problematic people from the aspect of the profession are elected. There is still one rooted opinion that today cannot be elected a judge if there is no one, according to our jargon, damage, that cannot be chosen a prosecutor who has no harm. On the other hand, it's worrying if the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council says - so people don't have better ones. Because now it's a question of society, that we've come to a position, 20 years after the war, that we can't produce quality young people who are willing to face this job, or we're going to introduce a system of partocracies. I failed to say earlier that the inscriptions of our media and in the environment, in the practice of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, are something that violates the right to a fair trial and that Strazbur punishes countries where various newspapers happen, through various ordered articles, spit, condemn, before the proceedings begin. I hope that this report will open many doors and that, in the future, we discuss the problems of the judiciary honestly openly, without fear. I don't see what needs to be created tension can't come. They may and should come, but we must be the ones who will be subtle in our actions, the approaches not to hurt what we all stand for. Eh, there's one more thing I have to say. How many heads of state are we, yesterday I ran into this data, is there anywhere in the world of the state in which the court abolishes the immunity of an MP? Yes, BiH. For God's sakes, that's an emergency provision coming from the international community. The court abolishes the immunity of the elected representative, directly elected. Change that, the Minister of Justice is not here, change that provision. We can't let anyone humiliate us, and we keep doing it, we keep doing it. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4390	Thank you, Mr Simić. 44 The word has Mr. Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4391	Here I am, distinguished colleagues, dear guests, a few words just to say and avoid the absolute possibility of being personal about this, but since this topic marks three years and a fourth year of our work as a call, and I am sure that today we will not end anything about this, and that is why I said this comment because this morning at the College, when we discussed whether this was even going on the agenda, we felt that we should not, and then, first of all, we put the debates so far, on the agenda, and at least one part of it to paint, because it would also be said, if you will, and about us, and the functioning of the BiH rule of law, that in this whole session we have failed to discuss, the truth just one little detail of the functioning of BiH judicial institutions. We talk exclusively about foreign judges and prosecutors, we don't touch anything else and then it's hard to talk about the BiH judicial system. I can express one of my views that, on the trail of your 4.5 debates that you have said here, and everything that will be silenced here and many others, would say that today we are not even from a close state, that indeed many of us need to be concerned about what we have on the ground, and that is so. Not only do we appreciate the fact, which has been said here several times, that in the last 12, 13 years of action, regardless of how promoted, brought, ensued representatives of prosecutors and courts within BiH, and not just the judicial system in the classical sense of BiH, we still have a representative of the international community, in the BiH Constitutional Court. What's more, there's still the possibility that, here we're going to say it under quotes, some pack, someone's packing, and it's done in continuity. And in the end, even someone says, well, eventually the judiciary won, because eventually some judicial institution freed someone or did not release them. It just says where we live, where we work, etc. But I said I wouldn't be personal, so I won't get into it any deeper. The question arises whether or not we got rid of it. If there is no physical person today who is not allowed to show his judgment and attitude, and these people have made decisions and influenced decisions, to what extent do they do so today, both in what way and through what instruments? Did we get rid of that? And I'm saying this all together because it's probably 5 or 6 here to comment on this, and the other gentlemen, for these or those reasons, won't feel the need to say anything. And that's still good. Bog forbid we dare to draw any conclusions about this. Then you would see how much harder it is to do than at that previous point when we talked about the BiH Penal Code, so when we asked for business maneuvers how to leave something in life, because we are aware that it will fail. Imagine how we would manage here, of all the possible business techniques we have. Now, that's something that gives a little bit of fear and discourages the one who comes. I am sure that for some 2 or 3 we will call a home in the BiH Parliament to talk openly about this and that it will not be considered to interfere in the independence of BiH's judicial institutions, because if the BiH legislature discusses such things, then it cannot be treated that way. Ali. my request to you, that, at least through what we can do and as representatives of this House and where we can influence through elements of the executive government, and even our political action, we try to understand that BiH does not have its Euro-Atlantic future or the European future, to facilitate some debate here again, until it becomes a real and legal state. To do so, we need to copy the EU justice systems that we want to get close to. Because there can be no principle that applies there at the level of high European, democratic standards, and that someone in our community is trying to establish some completely different standards and completely different principles. No matter who it's about or what the problem is. 45 So here's the call, because I know there might be another or two discussions on this subject today, and I went out to say something about this anyway, because I could write about this one dozen novels. Probably someone will write about these topics sometime, but let's at least pave the way for some new, future politicians, just because politicians are not thrown out into some mockery, not only to be processed for it, etc. It is a contribution that we would have to make today through our discussions and through what we will do in this seven, eight months, and in the next session, to build BiH institutions in which we will be able to say that BiH functions as a normal rule of law. It is unfortunate that today, as a representative of this BiH High House of Legislative Authorities, I must say today with such another belief that BiH is not a legal state. And I want her to become all my heart, and that's why I've been commenting on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4392	Thank Mr. Čović. Mr. Tadić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4393	Thank you, Mr. Košarac, thank the chairman as well. I wouldn't say it, but I heard how unhappy it was with the work of foreign judges and prosecutors Mr. Simić, whose none of the SNSD's executives were either accused or at trial, then there's no point in me, whose words I can't count anymore, not saying a word, and they were at these trials. Now, says Mr. Simić to be subtle and here I am going to be less subtle. In a political sense, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office had these foreign judges and prosecutors to work against HDZ and the SDS, because the PDP was collateral damage, with all due respect to Mr Ivanić and his party. And that's how it is. Whoever brought them, lured them, called, hired other things, we don't get into it. What they couldn't find better than they found, as Mrs. Krišto says, waiters and chefs, that's their problem, but today when I hear about some dissatisfied with the work of that court and that prosecution in the part where the foreigners did it, I don't see that there's a willingness to say that they were accused innocent people. That these people who were, this Šarović, this Čović, etc., that they were innocent, but they said they weren't doing their job. Whoever feels called by these words, so it's his business. I didn't call anyone, and this isn't a question of inter-party struggle, this is a matter of attitude towards the country, and until the end of what I intend to say, you'll understand that, even though it may not look like that right now. So, if we're going to be subtle, and subtle means thin, sensitive, pure, etc., then we're going to call things a real name. Political processes were led against HDZ and SDS people and were intended to break the political and national interests of the Croatian and Serbian people, in order to implement political decisions revising the Dayton Peace Agreement. Whether they're some pickpockets with their ignorance or someone who's been laundering money while they're still damaged, it's a collateral thing, but these two parties were victims of that order. Who claims it's different to make arguments, because the arguments I make are quite clear. Now, we're looking for a report on their work. Well, I'm sure they gave that report to those who hired them, that we're not joking right now. So what we got, these papers, numbers, etc., that's completely meaningless, don't tell us anything. They filed a report to whoever stepped on them and got paid for it, and it's all good, and they went their way and that episode was over. 46 The rule of law taught by Mr. Čović is what I want to talk about. What did we understand as a legal state? We understood as a legal state that after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement we had a round in which everyone had their own steps. And that's not bad if those steps don't mean that one's turning left, the other's turning right. We have come to the conclusion that what is called BiH, seen as something that needs a guardian and not only in the image of a high representative who interprets what is written, but in the image of a high representative who makes laws, makes regulations, edits everything that needs to be arranged and constantly has in mind a laternativ – break the SDS and HDZ will appear someone who will take over, who will do the job as is right for those who are in favour of changing the Dayton Peace Agreement. And that's why it's the D.A.'s office, and that's why this court had foreign prosecutors and foreign judges. I'll compare Croatia and BiH to you. We spent here, or whoever was doing it, I didn't but here, the institutions spent judicial reform, fired the judges, fired the prosecutors, brought in other people, lost a great deal of time in all this. The question is what quality we've got. There's no judicial authority, the judges themselves go around talking about how they didn't make the decision, but someone asked them to. Because they have no integrity in a society that can stand up to some bastard who stops them in the middle of the road and says, "Is it, why did you decide one way or another?" And it is considered a successful reform of the judiciary. What's... the criminal people who were driven away. Well, they were as old as they were, they had law school, they had a judicial exam, and they were engaged somewhere in one of the cities during that damn war. Someone was a judge, someone was a prosecutor, doing people their job. Last war, remove everything. Even such BiH, as Mr Čović says, is not ready for the European path, even so. And we have Croatia, I don't know if I've said it here, if I'm sorry to say it again, Mladen Bajić, the state's attorney-in-chief yesterday, is what's called in Croatia, the man who was in that position when Croatia entered both NATO and the EU, was the military prosecutor who was the prosecutor in my case in the middle of the war in Split. And I was sentenced to six years without any evidence, no matter, doing a man his job. No Niko asked him where he was in the war, what was wearing a uniform and what was the prosecutor for the people who were trapped in Lori, and what was happening in Split's Lori during the war. Niko one asked him. It's a country. A prosecutor like that here, so... us here, to prove ourselves politically to strangers, would beat us with a stick. It's not just an example in the judiciary. Ante Kotromanović, who is now the defence minister, is a man whose office they brought me to when I was captured. As I've spent my time, you can think, but the Minister of Defence of Croatia. ... bothered to enter either NATO or the EU. We declared here all those people who participated in the war by interference. They say there was no lustration in this country. There has been a lot of lustration compared to those who have defended their peoples in this past war. They were not compared to those who were servants of the totalitarian order, which was called the Union of Communists. And compared to them, there was no lustration, and there was lustration compared to those who were forced, most of them wouldn't have chosen it if they could choose. But they were forced to be there, to fight to survive. They're chandeliers, and they know who changled them. So the foreigners were brought in, so now we have what we have. This is a long and sad story. It will not end in this term, as Mr Čović says. They've taken a two-time stand against this building in this term to set it on fire, haven't they, Mr. Čović? We're witnesses. Unfortunately for these floods, they say 900,000 people moved out of their homes within 5, 6 days. We got the Minister's advice after a year and a half, I don't know how many we are, if we've passed 20 laws that we've passed. I'm not sure. On the European path, here's Mr. Genjac, he's the head of the Commission, as far as we've come and what our status is. Our better status was Mr Genjac in 2011 than in 2014 compared to the European Parliament. Do you agree? We're moving on, aren't we? We're going backwards, yes, I agree. That's how it is. 47 Neither of this, nor of any other problem will we escape until we realize that we are each other's most important allies. Whether our alliance will be in doing things one way or another is the matter of our choice and our decision. But any stranger who gets involved in our domestic lives might say he's come to help, possibly really wants to help, but he doesn't bear the consequences of his or our mistakes, because he doesn't live here and share our fate. If we learn that, no matter what this report says, we have learned much from this example. It is an alliance that is certainly offered to you by each of these people from the Club of Delegates of the Serbian People, and in particular, so to speak, I as president of the SDS all together here, although it often knows to be marked as not knowing what kind of epithets etc., which are again misunderstandings of the process in which we want to help, to get things started from a dead spot. So if we just learn that, we've learned enough. And to accuse judges, foreigners, and prosecutors, they came to do what they were going to do. That's what they did and went and reported to those who brought them. Be assured of that, all of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4394	Thank you, fellow Tadić. kolega Simić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4395	I took this report as a reason that we are just dealing with those issues that Mr. Čović has abstracted, and most of them, that this should be one lesson about how to defend and build a legal state, a legal state as an element and a path to Europe, but above all as an element of the needs of these citizens, to live. If we are passing laws that will provide the rule of law, democracy for Europe's sake, let's not even pass them. We need to do this for our citizens' sake. But Mr. Tadić, having realized four years ago that he's... an election campaign, he can't help but mention that there's no SNSD that's been screwed up like SDS and HDZ. Well, I have to say for that reason, for the sake of full information – only Mr. Šarović was tried from the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4396	And Kalinić, Cicko Bjelica,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4397	Wait, they weren't meant to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4398	Please, please, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4399	Please, it was the decision to take down a high representative. _____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, they're not meant to be at all. Mr. Cicko Bjelica was tried for war crimes, not this story. To finish, Mr. Tadić, I listened very carefully. SDA, Fazlić, Šahimpašić, Bičakčić, Branković, for God's sake, let's not create one here, the key question here is – did 48 BiH allow itself to have mounted political processes? That's what someone needs to give us an answer. I agree with Mr. Čović that we can't get that answer today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but that answer will have to come, as the answer has come about gol Island, as will come about many other things that have happened in this country. I doubt it was political persecution. Someone will have to answer - who was behind these political persecutions, what was their goal, whether the goals were decapitated or brought about this question. The other thing I want to make right is that it's not entirely true that the judges or prosecutors who participated in the war were immediately removed. No, I don't. Mr. Salem Miso, one of the biggest judges we had in these areas, had courage, and the heart, and the profession and morals, were judges, accusing him in the RS, in the Victor Bubanj Court. I know two prosecutors, military prosecutors, I'm talking about military prosecutors, and Mr. Miso was doing something for the Military Court, one today is the judge of the Supreme Court of RS, the second is the ambassador. Therefore, this general claim that whoever participated in the war is not true that it was not done. I can say, when it comes to judicial reform, that many of us have entered that reform believing that it will deliver results. I still believe today that the things that were done at the initial stage were good. But we simply do whatever we do very quickly begin to tear ourselves down. It's one process, judicial reform is not a day. The independent judiciary has been built for years, independent justice is being built by the overall state of society. However, we are far from having an independent judiciary, far from having a professional frame, far from having a free frame, far from having an unscrupulous bar in the judiciary. It's a public secret that there's a mythology in the judiciary, in public. Even such information came to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. There were no adequate checks, running away from the reality that had to be dealt with. So, this report, I had to say, not to create here one picture of how it was privileged by SNSD and how SNSD might have even directed those processes, which is an allusion that remains, were all victims of this process. Well, I've only listed four and five people from the U.S.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4401	Thank you, fellow Simić. Correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4402	It is wrong to conclude on the basis of my discussion that I have accused any party. I never say in political discussions that it's not good this party or that party in, I don't know in the RS SNSD, or the Socialists, or, I don't know, DNS, or PDP, or SDS, or, I don't know, in the Federation of the SDA, or this or that. I never said that in my life. I, please, make it very, very clear I always focus on, if the political decision on the authority that made that decision in some party, if the individual is an individual, if it is a little cloudy then on the top of the party etc. So I take care of these things because the party is made up by all those people who are party members who often do not participate in these decisions. It never occurred to me to hurt one of them, and it's not good to bring that kind of connotation into those things. Now, my thesis, I will say this: Dragan Kalinić, party president, accused, tried, the case of the Business Bank of Serbia, you forgot Mr. Simić, Cicko Bjelica, the case of Privredna banka, the director of the party, Govedarica, the same case of Privredna Banka, was the deputy director of the party. 49 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, I'm talking about who's been forced and how groomed he is. Mirko Šarović, vice president of the party. In his set, Momčilo Mandić, who was not in the party leadership but was the director of the bank that was involved. Then you are, the Business Bank of Serbia... and not to count further. HDZ – former President Ante Jelavić, is that so, Borjan, was then president of the party when he was tried, HDZ President Dragan Čović, so I don't know, that I don't list all other people. So it's a political blow. Whether or not a member of the SDA was meant for him, Bičakčić was not the party president whether or not, none of these people, I do not know if he was at all active in the party's authority at the moment when this was happening to them. _________(?) Šahinpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4405	You've managed to have another replica or correct the wrong quote. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4406	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4407	Mr. Tadić, you've said very precisely, don't play words now... comma, no one from SNSD has... For God's sake, get a transcript, get a record, and you'll see that you said that, the victims were already HDZ. [[You don't understand.]] And that was a cause for my reaction. Find it. So, 50 for that reason, I reacted. I just don't think we should be opening those questions about who it is. Here, I just wanted to show that this finding of the victim, further Mr. Kalinić was not tried, was not tried nor Cicko Bjelica, were tried for the bank of Mr. Govedarica, was tried Momo Mandić yet, I don't know, were released, convicted of Govedarica, convicted, and even all instances passed... One person in that case has been convicted. Mirko Šarović, I repeat, after I started defending him, was one victim of nonsense. The one who started the sentence said it was a political process to... I say it publicly. But let's not open that story now in the way you're trying to open it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4408	Okay. If I may ask you personally to put aside and I don't think there's any reason why we're taking any items out here through these processes. But here, we continue the debate. kolegica Kapetanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4409	... When persons of very envious judicial experience, such as Mr Simić, express such qualifications about the fact that there is no independent judiciary in BiH, which I fully agree with, when a person of his capacity, therefore as an expert... science says that the BiH judiciary is not depolitised, I must react here and say that there are those of us who want to participate even though we have never been prosecuted so far, to say that I agree with him. [[Disable microphone]] I really think so. I think the exact claim made by Mr. Krstan Simić in which he says it is worrying when asked about the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council about the quality of the judicial staff that is in BiH courts and their response that they do not have any better, I think that is true,... Mr. Simić. And that in addition to this, the fact that certain very high functions in courts are being placed without prior, necessary previous experience that may be delegated by political parties and perhaps also by some relatives and relatives or other private ties are being appointed as someone's wife and members of a rope or family. In the context of this reverse story that Mr Genjac and Mr Tadić spoke about, about BiH's path to the EU, I, along with my colleagues who, here I have a colleague who is together with me a delegate at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, who can testify about the fact that the BiH delegation is very often warned about the non-implementation of judgments for the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. And not only is it mentioned in the context of the non-implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, but BiH is regularly, almost every session of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights, whose member I am, a reminder, noted and given a signal, a red signal talking about BiH's inefficient slow justice. So it happened seven days ago in Helsinki at the regular session of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights, when, among other things, it was about preventing corruption in the judiciary and talking about the role of national parliaments and strengthening judicial capacity, I have to say that as a representative of BiH in this Committee, I had to swallow the dump, and that I had a very uncomfortable feeling when BiH was, by the way, highly ranked in the list of the worst countries by a huge number of unsolved court cases and by the fact that BiH is absolutely more and more away from European principles, European traditions and what our goal is, so to join the EU but by accepting these standards that you Mr. Chairman just spoke about. It has been said that... the BiH judiciary is not well. I am glad today that when it comes to judicial reform in the Federation Parliament many, many years ago, I was very restrained and very skeptical. Although I was fully aware of the fact that 51 will create a huge number of unsolved cases by, say, joining courts for violations of other courts, basics or whatever you call them, that there will be... an outdated one, which is being informed by the EU. And then I claimed that the perpetrators would do new crimes knowing they wouldn't be punished for the simple reason that cases are piling up, so they cross a number that's much bigger than a million. So as a doctor, I ask -- what would happen if we had two million patients in BiH, not two million, but one million unsightly patients, and those we didn't provide. I didn't feel well in Helsinki when they called us in the group of the worst-ranked countries that, by violation of human rights, were Azerbejdžan and Turkey. And I must say that I very much appreciate what my colleagues have said and that I believe that this very high home, not waiting for the second or third generation of politicians who will be in one of the next, should open a fair democratic conversation within our state parliament on the role of national parliaments in strengthening judicial capacity within BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4410	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. We've exhausted the debate, or at least I don't see any more applications and I don't see any interest in reporting, and then we'll say, we'll conclude the debate on this agenda point. And there's only one thing left for us, whatever that means, to make sure that we get the information we had here and vote on it as such. So we're voting on whether we're receiving information about the work of foreign prosecutors and judges we've received from the institutions that we've asked for this information. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 13 - for 4, versus 5, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH 4 for, 2 against, 3 abstentions, RS 3 against, 1 abstention. There is no general majority, so we can conclude that the information on the analysis of the results and effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in BiH has not been received. We're moving on to item 13 of today's agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations", delivered by the Office for Auditing BiH institutions You've been given the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. The Committee accepted the Report with recommendations contained in the Report, concluded that the Report could be accepted, and proposed its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at the 66th session, since 14th of this year. I give my word to the Reporter if he is present and if there is a need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4416	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4417	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this. I can't see the application. I can't see any interest in the application either. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Report with proposals and suggestions contained in the Report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 — for 13. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 4 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree with the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period 01.01.2013-31.12.2013 with the proposals and suggestions contained in the report. We're moving on to the point of today's 16th agenda, Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of BiH, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4423	Thank you very much. Here, I see this is going now, what they're saying, like, greased so I can break a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4424	We've still got a lot of material, free...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4425	So I answered for two reasons. First, when you get one of these material, then the least you can do is say it's a systematic and serious analytical report from the Central Election Commission. I am thanking you as an agent and I think this is one of the methodologically better-placed reports that I had in my hands and it is certainly to welcome you. With most assessments, I also agree, I must say, which is very important, but I would also like to say that in this section where it is said about the Central Election 55 goals, so it is said – vision, mission, our values, impartiality, responsibility, transparency, professional integrity, I think that these goals should really be included... one goal that could be called... mechanisms to ensure the full regularity of the BiH elections. So, I'm not criticising, but I'm just saying that this goal must be one of the highest priorities in the work and legislative institutions and all those responsible for the electoral process in that chain, because we see that we have serious demands and objections, and finally, here in this report, you have a series of examples of violations of the electoral law and irregularities from local to general elections. What should also be said now is that here we have the situation that the members of the Central Election Commission and the key people of the Central Election Commission, including only the Central Election Commission, have received the highest international recognitions from London... I also congratulate them, you know we always criticize, and when you see that there are such things, I think you should point that out. But, uh, why did I answer? In essence, to invite us all to use this year to go one step further in the electoral process and its democracy and regularity, not a step back. I will remind us just how many invalid ballots there have been in the last general elections and how that number is actually growing rather than stopping and falling. And I think it would be good here to strengthen one dimension and mutual communication, which is also spoken of here, in terms of transparency to the smallest particles in the election process, which are election committees, observers, mobile teams, counting and final publication of the results, too, that they must be in that chain most transparently observed by all the participants in the process. In any case, I believe that this approach, this report, creates assumptions for us legislators that in those chapters concerning the implementation of the laws adopted by this Parliament, this Parliamentary Assembly is better and more responsible and there is space in all these laws. Finally, we exempt jurisdiction from the Central Election Commission when it comes to the Law of Conflict of Interest, one of the most sensitive laws in every democratic society, and it is up to us now that, not only formally, we are showing that we can deal with the intensities of democratic countries when it comes to such an important law. And here, I expect that this part that we haven't finished, and there's still if I'm right, if I didn't beg to be corrected by the members of the Central Election Commission, there's an option that 90 days before the election, there's still elections for the Mostar City Council. And I don't think we can discuss these reports, talk about law enforcement, the implementation of constitutional court rulings and this passing past us like everything's okay when it comes to elections for Mostar City. Whether we will be smarter than the last few years ago, when we failed to achieve it, I am not very optimistic, but I would like to remind us that there is this possibility that we can come up with some solution that the City of Mostar will not be a hostage to our political inability, to come up with legal solutions that would respect the verdict and from Mostar would not further make the city a hostage of our relations in a political sense. Well, in that context, another card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4426	Thank you, colleague Raguž, for this complete analysis of the report from last year. A fellow Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4427	Thank you. Of course, the report is methodologically supported and it is already... showing details that are very useful and that can evaluate the work of the Election Commission. I would only have one intervention in respect of this act concerning the implementation of the Law on conflict of interest. As is known, we have passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Change, and the Commission has assumed jurisdiction and, of course, responsibility only for appointed, elected and advisers at the level of the institutions of the BiH state. 56 As far as RS is concerned, there is a law and a special commission from earlier, and the Federation and the Brcko District are not in charge of this commission until the Federation and Brcko amend their laws and say so. So this is kind of the latest Central Election Commission report to this Parliamentary Assembly on conflicts of interest, and I think that, since it is the last one, there is one detail missing. We here on page 58 have, where a decision on sanctions is spoken before, point 190 says that 30 procedures have been initiated to determine the existence of conflicts of interest. It is later said that point 192 of the procedure found that there were no elements for the imposition of sanctions and 17 proceedings established a breach of the relevant provisions. 17 and 4 is 21. I think in this report that's the last one that needs to be told what's going on with the others where the procedure is being initiated. Of course, they are not likely under the authority of the Commission dealing with the conflict of interest at BiH level. Since this is the last Report to the Parliamentary Assembly, I do not think that the last report should tell about all the cases for which the procedure was initiated – rejected, sanctioned, not given in the course of the procedure, the nature of the injury, etc. I think that's missing. Because I, just to say, the Commission for the conflict of interest formed by this Parliament was given the following – we have a file for all appointed, elected and advisors, only a file in terms of living files to monitor how the law provides. No object of conflict of interest exists that is open at BiH level. Now, so this is there, but I think the report should tell what's going on with these cases, and they will, of course, be handed over to the competent commissions, but what about these items in this report, what their fate is, what it's about, whether it's in the process, whether it's going to be handed over, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4428	Thank you, Genjac. Comrade Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4429	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to take a brief look at a few details in this report. Of course, if in one of the previous points we talked about the rule of law in BiH now through these reports we can talk about the electoral process and the degree of democratisation of society in BiH and the democracy achieved. I won't, of course, methodologically and all that, I've had the chance to talk about this report on the Human Rights Commission, and here I just want to remind you of one fact. If we have carefully read this report, and we have, then we will eventually come up with a recommendation. The recommendations in this Report, and of course, the report has been delivered much earlier in the procedure, before the election is called and everything that followed here in BiH, I would like to say, by adopting these recommendations, we are once again giving strength to all those needs to bring the election process into line in BiH, and it seems to me regardless of all of our support, both declarative and each other, that without these recommendations standing here, the electoral process will still be at that stage at which it is presently. And in the previous period and in some previous sessions, we talked about amendments to the Election Law, we raced here what and how we propose, and in this report we have a clear understanding of what we should have done. That's all I wanted to say, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4430	Thank you, fellow Rodić. 57 So we've exhausted all the reports, and I'm closing the debate. We are launching a voting procedure on the Report with recommendations from the Report. Please initiate procedure. Thank you. Attendance 11 — 10, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 2 for, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I agree with the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission for the past year, together with the recommendations of the Report, has been adopted. We're moving on to item 18 of today's agenda, Ad. 18. Annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2013. You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, emigration, refugees, asylum and the ethics of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Commission adopted the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman Institute for Human Rights, the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in 2013, and proposes to the House to adopt the above-mentioned Report with a conclusion calling on all entities to implement the recommendations of the Ombudsman Institution referred to in the reports. The House of Representatives at the 67th session, since 28th of this year, adopted reports along with conclusions. I'll give a word to the reporting officer if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the first deputy chairman of the Joint Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Migration, Asylum and Ethics, I would like to congratulate the representatives of the Ombudsman Institution on the fact that they regularly submit very high-quality reports to the BiH Parliament each year. This report shows a poor attitude towards the state of human rights in BiH. The very fact that in 2013 you had more received cases than in 2012, and that you increased your efficiency by almost 12% speaks of your responsible approach to the state of human rights within BiH. As a member of the Sub-Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and the Rights of the Child of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in BiH, I must compliment you on your work for a simple reason, because your work is visible beyond the borders of BiH and recognised as very good and I dare say that even beyond the borders of BiH I can tell you about the number of cases of complaints against BiH citizens, and especially in the segment of violation of the rights of the child that I am personally interested in being one of the defenders along with you. And I sincerely congratulate you for pointing out and trying to solve and pointing to irregularities that occur especially in segments of the child's right to education, rights to health care, because those who declare that in BiH, all children up to 58 18 years of age are entitled to health care are not telling the truth. And I thank you for pointing to this fact, it takes courage to do so. I think it is, I'm sure your claim that children's rights are being violated from the social protection segment, and what particularly bothers me in the child's privacy segment, and the fact that in BiH, unfortunately, sometimes the media is not protecting the child's privacy, and that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and your courage to point out is the fact that I think that the representatives of this high House should accept the fact that you have shown here. And again I say I have an obligation to thank you both as a member of this podkomitet-Committee and as the first deputy chairman of this committee for excellent co-operation and for everything you have really done to try to protect the rights of BiH citizens from the human rights segment. It would be good for you to have the opportunity to express a legal remedy and if the BiH courts worked in the way you work only then would actually be the rights of BiH citizens to, simply to exercise all the fundamental rights guaranteed by all the conventions that BiH has prescribed, signed and agreed with them and ratified them, and not implement them, only then would the rights of citizens in BiH be truly protected that everyone is working in the way you work. I therefore propose to the honourable colleagues, appreciating the fact that we have many more points on the agenda, that, on the basis of the Commission's conclusion on the protection of human rights, this report and I thank you once again as the first deputy for your excellent co-operation with our Joint Commission for Human Rights Protection.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4434	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. We join in these words of yours, at least on my behalf, I see others have not applied for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Report together with the conclusion of the Joint Committee. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 12 - all for. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 3 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I conclude the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Human Rights Institution of BiH and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2013 together with the conclusion of the Joint Commission was adopted. We're moving on to the next point, Ad. 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption Since we are informed that Dr Mirsad Abazovic and Mr Milord Vulić, the professor of Dr Mirsad Abazović and Mr Milord Vulić, are in charge of the mandate in these committees at the end of 30.06. this year, or four years after their appointment, which was in 2010, in accordance with the requirements of Article 17b(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the co-ordination of the fight against corruption initiates the process of appointing six members in the Ad hoc commission, three of which are representatives appointed by the Parliamentary House of Parliament, and three envoys appointed by the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The commission's task will be to carry out the selection process of 59 new representatives of the academic community, representatives of the NGO sector in the Commission, to establish the ranking of the most successful candidates and to deliver it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. The House of Representatives at the 66th session, since 14/05, adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement a procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. In the above, the Commission appointed counterpart Kabil, a colleague of Jurišić, a colleague of Pandurević. I call on the presidents of the clubs of our House's people to make proposals for members of the Interim Joint Commission from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. On behalf of the Croatian people, colleague Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4436	On behalf of the Croatian People's Club in the Joint Committee, I propose Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4437	Thank you very much. In the name of the Bosniak people of fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4438	The Bošnjak Club – Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4439	Thank you. A colleague, Rodić, on behalf of the Serbian people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4440	On behalf of the Serbian people, Mr. Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4441	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Are there any comments regarding these proposals? There isn't. We're voting on the proposal. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. From the 12 - 11 present for, abstention 1. So, Federation of BiH 9 - all for, RS 2 for, 1 abstained by mistake. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, and in that Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, colleagues Raguž, Bradarić and counterpart Ivanić were appointed. 60 We move to the next agenda points. One brief clarification, meaning that today we have a new colleague in our ranks, so we all congratulated him, and as automatism, at least that's how the College proposed, all those commissions that have been filled by a colleague, Bećirović, we suggest that he now fills in his colleague Hodžić, and in that sense I will suggest that we unite the debates on points 20, 21 and 22 because they refer to it if you agree. Well, first we'll have to make a statement about it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let's do both right now. Well, then here's what we heard, so we're uniting the debate by point 20, 21 and 22, and we're going to lead both the debate and the vote in one shift. Ad. 20. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committee of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. 21. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Committees of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Ad. 22. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4445	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4446	We're opening a debate on this proposal. Excuse me. I don't see a report, yet there are, fellow Genjac, here you go. An apology really, this is just a matter of speed.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4447	I thank the chairman. In the course of the debate on the agenda, I have made a certain argument, and I will only repeat, so according to the Law, which we have just adopted, on public procurement, it is the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly that within a month of the withdrawal of the law, and has entered into force, a contest for the appointment of the Office of Appeals. So everything else is contrary to that provision of the Law. That's one thing. And secondly, we refused to join the House of Peoples after the end of the procedure. It repeats the proposal that has been rejected. I'm warning you of this problem that's likely to end up in court. All those who participated in the competition who applied and who see this today will have a basis and, I think, a reason for the judgment in the court to be in their favor. I'm obliged to warn you, and I don't think we need to do this, especially when it's not exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure. The House could conclude that this issue was regulated in some way, as we did, but without any conclusion and without any grounds to repeat the procedure for one issue that was rejected, I think it's very problematic. I'm obliged to warn you. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4448	Thank you, fellow Genjac. We've exhausted the debate, we haven't, colleague Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have another problem here, it's not the only problem right now. That's right, since this is a repeat procedure, right, Mr. Genjac, now has to re-represent the House. So he can't stop here now, this is a new request from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4450	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4451	Well, here's what I'm expecting, someone to say that, no, I think we know what we're voting on. Are we voting now on a final decision or are we voting now on something that is in the re-proceeding process?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4452	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4453	It wasn't a vote. This isn't a re-election, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4454	I'll beg you, just stick to the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4455	I will, I will, I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4456	Here you go, just finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4457	So this is why we have a requisition, says – a proposal for the appointment of members of the Office/Office, does not matter, to consider complaints. It is now repeated, one procedure has been completed and a decision published in the Official Messenger that these people are not... Now it's re-procedure. So, if there's anything else, don't at least make that mistake, so it turns out there's only one home, and it's gotta go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4458	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4459	Shall we take a conclusion about that, Mr. Genjac, what do you say? There's no need, it's only in itself known. Okay... 63
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4460	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4461	So they weren't chosen today.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4462	Thank you very much. I don't see any more debates reported for today's debate, I don't see any interest, and here I am definitely closing the debate. My apologies again for going at such a speed. And now I ask you to vote on the motion for a decision to appoint members of the BiH Appeal Office, as we have already done. Here, run the voting procedure. Thank you very much. At present 13 - 8 for, versus 3, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, 1 abstention, RS 2 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Decision appointing the members of the BiH Appeal Office and appointed Magdalena Papić, Irma Mehić-Jusufbašić-Jusufbašić, Nikolina Silak, Vildana Đurović and Dragan Vukajlović as members of the Board of Appeals. On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement to ratify agreements, protocols, contracts, conventions and memos. I propose to my colleagues, in accordance with current practice, that a joint debate on the granting of consent to ratify the agreements, protocols, contracts, conventions and memos referred to in points 24 to 35, including point 35. I am opening a debate on this proposal, so together we are considering all these points of the agenda. There's no record of a hearing. Voting procedure related to this proposal please. Thank you. At present 13 – for 12, I guess this is a mistake so we won't be going back to... Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 3 for, 1 abstained by mistake. We have a general and entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a motion to unify the debate on all points of the agenda. Ad. 24. - 35. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, protocols, contracts, conventions and memos You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. I give my word to my colleague Krešić if he needs to.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4464	64 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-06-0.u4465	No, thank you very much. I am opening a merger hearing from points 24 to 35, including 35. There's no sign-in. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting in favour of ratifying the agreement, protocol, contract, convention and memorandum referred to in points 24 to 35, including point 35. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - all for. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 4 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree, we agreed to ratify the agreement, protocol, contract, convention and memorandum referred to in points 24 to 35, including point 35. Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the agenda of the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Session completed at 4:35 p.m.
