ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22030	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 68th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the Bureau, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as well as international organisations and embassies who regularly follow our work, media representatives. The meeting also invited representatives of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, the Central Bank, the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity, the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH's police structures, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by two MPs, 32 present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As regards changes to the agenda and additions, I would like to mention the following points are added to the agenda: point 3. A statement by the BiH Council of Ministers on the proposal for conclusions presented at the 67th session of the House of Representatives, held in 28.05.2014, in a debate on the Information of the BiH Presidency Council of Ministers on the consequences of the natural disaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Point 17. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to bring the text of the Electronic Document Act into line. Point 4 and point 5 with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission have been completed, which is negative. The previous agenda was removed from point 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Point 17. Consider Instructions on the use of native sensitive language in PSBiH with annexes. 2 Both points were removed at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, because the session of the Commission was not maintained by the lack of quorum. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22031	First of all, I'd like to say hello to all of you. So, the addition to the agenda. We sent it this morning, so on the basis of Articles 64, paragraphs 1 and 3 of the mandatory agenda and Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives propose an addition of the agenda to the 68th session of the item, which reads: The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Office to discuss complaints. Reason: Here, I may not need to read the explanation. We received some information, which you probably all received, which is that the Council of Ministers reached its conclusion on 12.05.2014 where it said – the Council of Ministers at the 94th session, held on 09.05.2014, considered and adopted information on the need to conduct the selection procedure of members of the Office for the Review of Appeals. In this regard, the Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Justice to submit a proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for members of the Office to discuss complaints established by the Council of Ministers at the 66th session. I think it's clear to all of us that we're not going in, that we're not going in here to say some further explanations, the situation is next, that the House of Peoples chose for the second time in the last session, that is, to propose candidates for the Office of Appeals. I think it's something Parliament should do at this point. That's our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22032	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22033	I propose that the 3rd item of the agenda be removed because it is in fact a matter of all issues in BiH right now. We got the Council of Ministers material yesterday afternoon. The material is more than confusing, without a clear concept and plan. We suggest that this agenda item be removed and a special session is scheduled for the flood situation and the measures to be taken at BiH level on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22034	Thank you. 3 Dear counterpart Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22035	I just need that, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, about this proposal by Mr. Bosić to take point 3 off the agenda and organise a special session of the House of Representatives on this subject, this second part of Mr. Bosić's proposal, I think it stands and that the situation in BiH deserves a special session on this topic. So there's no dilemma, but don't let us miss this opportunity today at least at point 3 analyze the situation from last session to today, to see what's done. So I think it would be good if this point 3 stayed. We have the material that we have, so let's see what we're going to do, I see that the Council of Ministers' activities have intensified since last session of the House of Representatives, and that's good, let's see what we're going to do next, and then let's schedule, when the Council of Ministers' complete material is made, one special session and discuss this situation with her. So, here, please, if we can do that. We wouldn't have the right today to, I mean, turn our heads on this question even if prepared in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22036	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22037	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I warmly welcome you all. The SDP club is against the fact that this item is being removed from the agenda, among other things, because we also concluded at the previous session that we are going to talk about it today. The second thing, I agree absolutely with my colleague Bosić that this is a question of all matters and that it is the most urgent thing and it is just another argument why this point should not be removed from the agenda. We MPs sometimes look little and act spoiled, whether we get, whether, whether all ministers are there or not. Here, now they're here so something else doesn't suit us, when there aren't ministers there, then it's a key question for us whether we got the material in time or not. If it's a question of all the questions, then we must have had the will and the desire to read it. Is the material large or not? If three pages had come, they would have said, take it off, this is not enough, now that we've got 200 pages of material of various, a statement of all conclusions, now it's wrong. So this point should definitely remain on the agenda, we should take advantage of the presence of both the chairman and the other ministers who are here. And as far as the SDP Club is concerned, we also feel that there is a need for a special session, and if, at the point of parliamentary questions and SDS initiatives, the SDS Club is initiating this session, we will, in any case, support it, bearing in mind, in particular, what awaits us all, and this is a donor conference where I believe that, as Parliamentarians, we have not quite engaged in how much executive power has been involved. So, it's not the BiH executive project, it's supposed to be a whole BiH project, we all need to engage in the project to be successfully completed. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22038	Thank you. Replica reply, honourable MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22039	Well, first of all, I think it's unserious to talk about materials that are coming to the tables right now. And right now, from the Foreign Ministry, we've received a response and a contribution to this agenda point. I don't mind Mr. Džaferović's proposal, but I have a feeling that he is just trying to avoid the right debate through this way of quick-opening the issue and to end it through one point in this Parliament's agenda and put an end to it. If we can now ensure that we have in the next period, here next week, an extraordinary session of this occasion, meaning not in 20 days or in a month, we agree that this agenda item is being discussed today and at an extraordinary session. So I'm looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the SDS Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22040	Since it is mandatory for me to give the Rules of Procedure to take a break as soon as he asks for a club, I ask if it is possible to complete the debate on this agenda and then take a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22041	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22042	She needs a break right away. At SDS request, 15 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats, to continue our work. I'm asking the SDS Club if they need to explain the break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22044	So our proposal to take down the third item of the agenda was intended to, in this way, through a debate on one item of the agenda, not end today the story and the role of Parliament to resolve the flood damage. We have been in talks with the other MPs, during the break we have received assurances that they will support further activities in this direction and the appointment of a special session on this issue by the end of June and therefore accept the proposal to remain a point, so we are withdrawing our proposal, with the conclusion that this is not the end of the debate on the role of the common authorities on the recovery of damages. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22045	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22046	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to realize that we've lost valuable time, no need at all. And if there hadn't been a withdrawal of this point, proposed by the SDS club orally, it couldn't have been put to the vote, because read Article 65. A Rules of Procedure which explicitly states that it is not allowed to propose to delete the mandatory point. This became a mandatory point after the Council of Ministers delivered the Report, after the Extended College adopted the agenda at yesterday's session, so we held a debate, took a break and talked here about things that could not come to the vote. On the other hand, the proposal that came, the second proposal from the SDS, and the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the BiH Appeals Office, I must say that we have also considered this proposal at the Extended College, that the Extended College did not agree that this was on the agenda today, but it also suggested that according to the Rules of Procedure it could be repeated at today's session in the debate on the agenda. The situation here is not daily and the Constitutional Commission, I will remind you, has considered a similar situation, and it concerns the amandman to the BiH Constitution concerning the removal of members, which concerns wages, which cannot be reduced. And the Constitutional Commission gave the interpretation that I have in front of me, that the issue said that the amendment with the same content was adopted at the 64th session of the House of Representatives, held on 30.08.2005, and that the House of Representatives should resolve this issue before deciding on this Amendment II proposal to the BiH Constitution, which proposed to the Council of Ministers. Namely, the Constitutional Commission found that it was the same member. However, the renumberation, given that a member of the Constitution, for Brcko, was no longer a member of the 1st but a member of the 2nd, and asked the Constitutional Commission to only find that the House of Representatives had been renumbered. Otherwise, as far as I'm aware, the lawyers have, in the meantime, given the interpretation that decisions taken by the same House cannot be subject to re-election. I would like to remind the people's House of the Decision, which is mentioned in the SDS' explanation, voted on this Decision and did not give a positive opinion on it on 5.11.2013. More specifically, he rejected the decision and the Council of Ministers referred the same decision to reconsider the House of Peoples. The legal question opens, whether the House of Representatives needs a decision that he gave a positive opinion on, again to be declared, means the House of Representatives gave a positive opinion on that Decision on 5.12.2013. It's a purely legal question. I think it would help us here and Minister Bariša Čolak who sent her, not to the House of Representatives, not to the House of Peoples, but to the Parliamentary Assembly. In the College, we interpreted that it was the House of Nations who did not finish its job because in the first proposal he rejected that decision, and then the same decision was put to the vote again and he accepted that it could not be the subject of voting here in the House of Representatives, because this House also made a confirmatory decision for the first time. But the minister is here and since his ministry has come again, let me say, the request I think it would be good to get involved in this discussion and tell us if we can put this as a point of order, to consider whether we should even vote on it again and not make it a nonsensical legal issue, because we are coming in a position that someone, and the decisions that have already been six, will put on the re-election here. I don't know how then Parliament will function in a way that all decisions that have been made and that have passed are re-determined. Thank you. Dear colleague, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22047	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I think that this situation that we have now is a rather clear situation from the aspect of the Rules of Procedure of both home and law that regulates this area and is not identical to that of amandman i, or Amendment II, now on the Constitution of BiH. So this House has approved the composition of this Office. It passed in this House, and then the House of the Peoples at the session that followed it refused, so he didn't accept it. And that's how the procedure ended. One of the homes did not finish it, the procedure was completed, the decision was not taken and renewed and the procedure was renewed. The home of the people does one unusual thing, that after he refused the Decision at one session, again at the second session the same rejected Decision puts it on the agenda and adopts it. It's something the Rules of Procedure doesn't know and it can get us into what you were talking about, Mr. Chairman. So here we need to repeat the full procedure, because the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, since one dom did not approve this, did not approve this appointment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22048	Replica's first vice-president, distinguished colleague, Božo Ljubič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22049	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. So this is an unusual situation for us here in Parliament, but for me there is no dilemma actually how to get out of this situation. Namely, colleague Džaferović, we cannot repeat this procedure here now. Why? Because we made the decision at the end of the 12th month or at the 12th month last year here on the basis of a proposal from the Council of Ministers following a competitive procedure. The re-competition procedure has not been implemented, so that we can now again, so to speak, vote on this proposal or any other proposal. So, the fact that the House of Peoples, after it seemed to me to be an unsolved result, did not adopt that approach that passed here at the House of Representatives, put it back on the agenda and voted, so to speak, the composition of this commission as it was already voted here at 12 months last year, for me, it was actually questionable whether the House of Nations had made a mistake. So I'm not competent, nor am I in charge of interpreting it, but I'm absolutely convinced that if the House of Nations has made a mistake, and I repeat, I don't know if he's wrong, we can't get out of the situation right now so we can make a mistake too. So I believe that we cannot vote again on what we voted for, because we cannot now interpret it as repeating the procedure, because the procedure has not been repeated. In fact, we should re-open the tender and then we should get a new proposal from the Council of Ministers and vote, so to speak, to repeat the procedure. So there's no dilemma for me, then. We can't vote on this again, and 7 will be the outcome of this, whether the Court will have to deal with this tomorrow or not, I don't know. Anything's possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22050	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22051	Well, I'm very sorry that we got into this situation, that we're wasting our time on this, too, but my vision is the next one. We have here a proposal for a agenda point in which we could discuss what Mr. Božo Ljubić is talking about, etc., and if we didn't classify this as a part of the agenda, there would be some status quo, some unresolved state. My vision is next. So, the House of the People by its decision of rejection, etc. has completed the process. So the process is completely over, including the competition that's being discussed here. And the thing is, in my opinion, very simple. The thing had to happen again, because the whole procedure had an inconsistencies. What's the alternative? Repeat the competition. And so we need to discuss it when we get to this point of the agenda, if we adopt it today. And otherwise, it's not a practice for the people's home to first consider things even though it's a business or anything else not arranged, but we didn't have the practice of having the House of Nations first consider a matter, then to the House of Representatives. And the same thing happened, and here it slowly turns into a habit, and with our amendments to the Constitution of BiH that stayed somewhere, so no procedure was completed, the House of Representatives adopted, came to the House of Peoples and some explanations, etc. But here's to not taking the time, I think we should put this item on the agenda and figure out how to get out of this situation, and I think it's obvious that this thing has to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22052	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22053	I don't have any more replicas, Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I just need to say for a moment that this is an amazing thing. So I can't believe that we've experienced this, that according to the Rules of Procedure in one House we vote on some things, and that the same thing is put to the vote again at the next or another session. It's a question of analysis and it's a question of analysis of those who need to deal with this analysis. The decision was not made after the People's House first refused this and that's what stands for the Rules of Procedure. Now the question arises, will you, as chairman, because it is necessary to sign whether, both at home and at home, sign it and put it on the announcement in "The Official Messenger". There's no conditions for that. This is the thing that was rejected and the procedure has to be repeated. Don't play Parliament, don't play with Parliament and don't play with it, especially with some randomities, when the procedures are clear and strict. 8 I stood up to say this for a warning. As it will be decided, so I don't know, it doesn't depend on me, but I was obliged to stand up and warn.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22054	Thank you. I don't know who's playing. Obviously, we all want to take this matter seriously and clean it up to the end. Dear colleagues, Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22055	Thank you, Chairman. I also share my view of the occasion as well as my colleague Džaferović. In fact, the Council of Nations cannot decide twice the same thing. It could decide the same thing, that the Rules of Procedure foresee it. So, if the Rules of Procedure provided that a decision could be reconsidered, of course, there would probably be a deadline within which a decision could be reconsidered, then that would be possible. This isn't possible, it's really not possible. I think it's quite legal, even pure, that the procedure must be repeated as a whole, so there's no dilemma here. Well, with Home, we get things from the House, the Council of the People, we get similar things, we get similar things. Apparently, there are lawyers out there who think very carefully when legal matters are a little more complicated. As for the Council of Ministers and the proposal to amend the Constitution, in terms of pay, I think about wages, is also problematic. There's a rule that everyone has to uphold the law that he's brought himself. So there is a Constitution, but it cannot propose a Council of Ministers law that does not comply with that Constitution, it can give an initiative to change the Constitution, and only then propose a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22056	Replica, the first deputy chairman, distinguished colleague, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22057	So my replica is on, so to speak, a replica or a debate I don't know what it was, from my colleague Belkić. So, I am not slowing down the evaluations of the esteemed lawyers, colleagues of Džaferović, colleagues of Kunić, that a possible exit from this situation is a complete repetition of the procedure. However, I argue, so to speak, putting this item on the agenda today, because the item on the agenda is, I remind you, the SDS Club proposal – Proposal for a decision in the appointment of members of the BiH Board of Appeals. So, we do not have a proposal for a decision which is therefore valid, which took place in a valid procedure after the competition, following a proposal from the Council of Ministers. That's totally controversial for me. Therefore, such a point cannot be classified. That's what I wanted to tell you, and I don't want to say, to be a bigger lawyer than a lawyer and say now that this matter doesn't need to be discussed and that it needs to be determined one way or another. But we can't put a point like this on today, because we don't have decisions, we don't have suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22058	Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22059	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So as usual, we like to discuss what we have no right to discuss, or this, which is not in the jurisdiction of this House. I want to remind you of one fact which is a constitutional fact, that all those who are calling for the Constitution and I want to appeal to the Constitution, this and the Rules of Procedure. There are two homes in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. One's called Representative, that's the one where we sit, the other's called the House of Peoples, that's the one we don't sit in, that's exactly two equal homes. No provision of this Constitution, nor this Rules of Procedure of this House, gives us jurisdiction to question, evaluate, evaluate, or in any other way give judgments on how the House of People works. If it is, then let's know, and we'll open it up as a topic in the future debate. So we don't have a right here, we're discussing whether the House of the Peoples had anything to do, whether he should have done something wrong, whether he was wrong, I don't care. I don't care because I'm not in charge of assessing whether they were right or what they did. That's one thing. The second thing, if we are talking about a concrete proposal, we have a proposal to include the item of the agenda already done in this House, voted in this House. So this, it's past all the procedures in force and beyond any practice that we've had so far since this House existed, that the decisions made in any way are put back on the agenda, so let me just say so and question them. Those who comment that it was the House of the Peoples, at the same time suggest that we do the same. Give me some principle, give me some consistency. So we're the decision that's being proposed today, made whatever it is. We made that decision. We don't have any new decisions, so we don't have any new decisions that know how to come to the agenda, etc. And I don't see any excuse why we're even dealing with this. So I have to say it's possible that this is a void in our business, so to speak, part of it, but this one we need to remove through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. So I repeat once again, so there's no business, no constitutional, no one you want to resist that decision we've already made, I repeat, in this House, we're back on the agenda. It's simple, then we can open the debate so that all the laws we've passed so far, and there's a lot of them that I don't like, we can put them back on the agenda, so we can vote them again, see if we've made a mistake, when we voted last time. So I think and I don't think but simply this one here is a very clear Rules of Procedure. It means we don't have, we don't have legal opportunities or business, we have to discuss the issue again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22060	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22061	Well, first of all, does that mean we don't have to do anything if the House of Peoples is wrong? Here I think the House of the Peoples has made no mistake. The procedure was in December. We have made the Decision as a House of Representatives, as we have made it. Legally, at a session of the People's House that followed our decision, a decision was made, the one who liked it or didn't like it. On the list of successful candidates of five people elected, there were 15. The Home of 10 peoples on 06.06. makes a decision. How do I know it's the same as it was in the House of Representatives, which we brought. Maybe they're other names. If those are other names, I guess we should get to the bottom of those names. If these are identical names that they had previously refused, then I guess we need to realize that this is not in accordance with the law and that we as a House of Representatives are asking for the procedure to be annulled and to call a contest. I mean, what Mr. Kunić said, which is a gentleman, actually, what we all said, is that this is political violence at the House of Peoples. Let's make it right, I'm not saying we need a proposal we don't have, we don't have a name proposal. And what you said, Mr. Chairman, I would like an explanation from Mr. Justice Minister, who sent an inquiry to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22062	Replica, chairman of the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22063	It's not a replica, it's more like thinking that's at the end of this session. In fact, we're wasting our time on the agenda, and we could go to the agenda points. So the debate about... The Council of Ministers on Floods, we could open as a item of the agenda and then be the conclusion that we are having this special session, that it will be held again at the next session. We shouldn't even be taking a break, nor should we be having this debate. The proposal that my colleague Babalj made was discussed at the Extended College and proposed by all members of the Extended College, reshape the agenda, discuss the decision to appoint members by the House of Nations, and discuss whether the House of Peoples had done what was right, whether this House should make the same mistake. You have repeated what you did at the Expansive College, without any feeling that we need to discuss it together here and that we care about it too. So you're putting us in an impossible position to vote here, something we're not essentially dealing with. The Council of Ministers does not help us either, in a way that does not hold a session, to conclude that decisions are being put to the vote again and that they are doing so in the House of Peoples and that they will not come out to explain their proposal. They are not helping us, as they will not help us at the next session, because in this session, at a business opportunity, the SBB could not come, not because the College did not give it, not because Živković did not give it, but because he was not able to do business on the agenda. The next session, which we will discuss, is that one of the ministers or two ministers will not be in the Council of Ministers again, because the majority of the assembly is lost, and we are now discussing this item of the agenda proposed by the SDS, because there has been a redistribution at the previous session, when it comes to the appointment and when it comes to the loss of the assembly majority. If there has been a redistribution of a dear colleague, then change the Council of Ministers, change the College, and then here with the congregation majority that is new, make the personnel solutions. It is not possible for a College that was in the parliamentary majority, the Council of Ministers, who was in the parliamentary majority, to be responsible for things in BiH, and you to only deal with human resources. It is an impossible situation in BiH. Or the chairman of the Council of Ministers at the next session to resign and the entire Council of Ministers will be in a technical mandate, which would be a real new situation. Don't waste time on the agenda, and we all know what this is about. There's no congregation majority, it's just that everyone wants to frame in this country and someone else is responsible for this situation. Thank you. 11 Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22064	I thank the chairman. I didn't think there would be any need, since I was involved yesterday in this debate and I think we're done, but I'm assuming that the good part of our colleagues in confusion is, of course, listening to all of this and it's hard to say a lot and I'm not saying that any of it is true. So it's probably being asked, as I understand it, to ask everyone out, with all the dilemmas they've been having, and right now I've just been taken away from this idea to try to make a suggestion, because here all the time, you've been trying to get things straight, and I can see that everyone's trying, but you have more sides of who's the authorized proposer. So, can tomorrow on the agenda be found, the MP proposes the Council of Ministers. I mean, either I don't know if the MP can propose a term of office. He can vote for it, but he can't propose it like that in the rules. We're trying to get it right, not questioning that we have a problem, not bringing it up. We definitely are a colleague of Lozančić's when he says we can't, but we have a right to say, we definitely have a problem with the House of Peoples. We're waiting for a donor conference and we're asking for money from neighbors with the highest salary in the region. And we'll welcome those people and say, "Here we are, we're not ready." That's our problem, that's a fact. The fact is that the Joint College doesn't function as one of the institutions, it doesn't function, definitely, and that's the problem someone wants or won't face. But here's to not spreading the story, yesterday we tried to hurry, since Brazil fans are already gathering, I guess these others will come, too, to try to bring the debate to an end. I'd like that if the Council of Ministers could at least help them say, this part of the ambiguity, if we can resolve this, because this is definitely a problem and I'm certainly not capable of proposing a complete solution right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22065	Thank you. I conclude the debate and practically, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have only this one point to give the agenda. The debate was held, meaning the newly proposed one, which is – a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the BiH Office to discuss BiH's complaints, by the SDS. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 13, versus 17, abstention 8. I'm konstatuj this point hasn't been supported. And, please, for a little patience, because of the stenogram, I have to read literally the agenda, adopted. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 67th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 12 3. A statement by the BiH Council of Ministers on the proposal for conclusions presented at the 67th session of the Representative's House of Representatives held in 28.05.2014 in the debate on the Information of the BiH Presidency of the Council of Ministers on the consequences of the natural disaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1-15-67/14, dated 10.06.2014; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-60/13, dated 30/04.2014, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 5. Proposal for a law on non-working days during religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mato Franjičević, Law No: 01-02-1-21/14, from 08.05.2014, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-22/14, of 15.05.2014 (first reading); 7. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-26/14, of 26.05.2014; 8. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the constitutional basis of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Public Radio-Television System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-18/14, of 14 April 2014; 9. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communication on the principles of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Public Radio-Television System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-18/14, of 14 April 2014; 10. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a draft law on international legal aid in civil matters – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-19/14, since 17/04 (the law in first reading); 11. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliament's Beriz Belkić's initiative from the 65th session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.04.2014, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I propose that at one of the next meetings in the agenda of the Parliamentary House of BiH be placed on the agenda – Reviewing the eligibility and existence of administrative and supervisory committees in public institutions and enterprises", issue: 01-50-1526/14, since 15.04.2014; 12. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2013, issue: 05/8-50-19-307/14, of 04.03.2014; 13. Annual Report and Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2013, issue: 01-50-19-480/14, from 03.04.2014; 14. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2013, issue: 01,02-29-592/14, of 07.05.2014; 15. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2013 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-649/14, of 22.05.2014 16. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2013, issue: 01,02-09-638/14, since 20.05.2014; 13 17. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the alignment of the text of the Law on Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-5/14, since 05.02.2014 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the extradition contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Morocco, number: 01,02-05-2-651/14, of 22.05.2014; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Financial Co-operation – Exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for the project – Vjetropark podveležje, No: 01,02-05-2-673/14, since 29.05.2014; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for 2013, issue: 01.02-05-2-682/14, since 30.05.2014; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Debt Exchange Agreement of 27.02.2012, between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) as well as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and Republika Srpska, represented by the RS Ministry of Finance, amounting to 12.821.343,85 euros – "Replacement of Debt 3", number: 01.02-05-2-674/14, of 29.05.2014; 22. Providing consent to ratification of Additional Protocol 3 with the Agreement amending and joining the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006), number: 01,02-05-2-672/14, since 29.05.2014. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 67th session You've got the record. Any objections? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22068	I thank the esteemed chairman and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, guests, media, all together. I would like to brief a few remarks on the answers I received to the questions previously asked by the Board of Appeals in the past period from which I wanted to know which companies, or institutions in BiH, of which the Office for the Review of Appeal, practically through the procedure, determined that they had committed them to settle fines in several tens or hundreds of thousands of marks, as many as 1,115,000 marks, but also certain companies against which criminal charges were filed by prosecutors for the crimes committed. In response, it is evident that 8 companies, first of all in the public sector, who committed certain crimes against which the practical case went to the prosecution, and it concerns, let me just say, the Zvornik General Hospital for 60,000 marks, then the Elektroprivreda Federation of BiH and BiH, then the contract body of the Health Insurance and Security Office in the Federation of BiH, the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH, the Basic School "Vuk Karadzic" Omarska, then the Directorate for indirect taxation, and the "Official Journal of BiH". Through these companies, it is obvious that these are extremely large amounts, but what we must be concerned about, that is, all those who have appointed responsible persons in these legal entities would do well to make sure that this is a good selection of personnel, whether this is a good choice for such system management, and I believe that, from this answer, it is clearly visible where we are. However, in the second answer, I also asked the question – Is it acceptable that public operators, telecom operators who, under the Communications Act, are obliged to collect a RTV tax from all users who are connected to a public, fixed, telecommunications network? However, there is the fact that public telecom operators are practically looking through their fingers, i.e. by introducing new packages, they do not account for the billing of tv fees, thus bringing their responsibilities to the Law on Communications in Article 37 where they are obliged to pay, and they do not. And I got a good answer from the D.A.'s office that they're sure to look at this case, that's what this information will do if it's confirmed, and that's certainly how it is. I got a third question from the Central Bank that I wouldn't particularly like to comment on since we're going to have a agenda today. I've prepared the details, and I think there's a lot in the Central Bank that we should be more specific about... and a little bit different about their business reports in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22069	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22070	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. My parliamentary question referred to a judicial decision that was taken since 2006 and one of my clients, i.e. citizens, asked me to address it and the decision became a force in 2006 and could not come to its realization. In a response said that the court, the General Court in Sarajevo is not initiating an official procedure, but should do so by the party itself. And now I see the problem and the torment of those people who are struggling with these decisions, and the distinguished judge, who signed here, Jovanović Janja says – MP Boško Tomić has the possibility of legal assistance to address services dealing with legal assistance for the implementation of a judicial verdict, the municipal court does not provide legal assistance. I didn't address you for legal aid, Mr. President of the Court, but you are in the service of these citizens, and you would have to help them, not build on anything. If this is the answer to the MP, then you can imagine how these people who aren't sent are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22071	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22072	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome my colleagues and colleagues and all those present in the O.R. I have an answer here, I practically have two answers to the IRS, and here I'm going to try to comment briefly on both of them. One in terms of issuing a VAT number where I asked the question - is it possible that the procedure is shorter than 15 days? And I got an answer that I couldn't possibly agree with, because really here justice is with some four regional centres where every one has to be registered, so later in the Central Office, this one, that one. I didn't ask this question for 15 days, the deadlines are much longer. Here I call upon the gentlemen of the Department of Direct Taxation to look at when, to look at their average when they have been sent a request to issue a VAT number and when they have issued it, so let them say if it's really 15 days, and I mean completely incomprehensible, now there are some checks and this, what, I think it's very ugly here and in response write that some bonds that have already made 50,000 marks are taking priority. So someone has to make a certain amount of money just like that, and only then take it as a priority and only then that he, of course, does not take into account those 50 or more thousand return marks and so on, etc. I think there's a lot of discrimination here, and I call on the Department of Direct Taxation to look at this again, this is definitely not an office, and the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, primarily from the Ministry of Finance, please look at this answer, so definitely as far as VAT numbers are concerned, here's the answer, and there's discrimination. And I'm inviting you to look at what your deadlines really are, the legal deadline is 15 days, but in practice it's far, far more. The second answer is – How much does the Directorate for indirect taxation pay on the basis of the rent? So here I've got exactly who and how much is this and this is how you add it, so that's one of the opportunities of the monthly commitment is 95,263 on the annual level I calculated that 16 is 1,143,167,28 marks. I think it's a lot of money. My next question, so as soon as we start with questions, will go towards the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. In this context, I don't think it's just here the Directorate for indirect taxation, all of these BiH institutions need to be examined, and in what way, to be determined accordingly, because it's really incomprehensible that the Directorate for indirect taxation pays something less than 1,150.000 a year. In fact, it's nothing less, because there's no livestock and meat storage here, because it's calculated per day, it's not calculated per month, so practically we don't have that information, so definitely, here's the answer, please, and look at this answer, which means that it's passed on to me, and you'll see how and in what way, we care about some savings like this, so I think there's a lot of space here when it comes to these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22073	Thank you. Two reported, colleagues Vrankić and counterpart Dervoz are not on the list, but it's probably from previous sessions, right? Here you go. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22074	Thank you very much. I asked the parliamentary question about it, meanwhile it came from the previous session – How much is the Federation's external debt and is it at peace? For a reason I asked the question, the external debt is 4,671,000,000. However, the end-users, who are the end-users of the loan, what I feared most, are in fact and true, they do not settle, and now the total debt unsettled by which the deadline is over 150,000 marks. This is the creation of a new dubiosis within the Federation, and we know that a federal budget in the settlement, i.e. discharge from the Single Account pays in advance of that obligation, is an internal dubiosis within the Federation that can be felt especially at lower levels of government, because it lacks... for distribution, and great individence is created and is becoming more and more and is jeopardizing the efficiency and functioning of the Federation. I think there's a special attention to this and try to reduce this internal, internal liquidity of a federal budget that could further endanger it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22075	Thank you. The word has Ismet Dervoz's emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, following the agreement at the beginning of the previous session, we agreed that we would postpone our comments on the responses received for this session, which is why I am reporting today to comment on the response given by the Committee on Gender Equality of the Parliamentary House of BiH from the Council of Ministers. 17 I would like to remind you that, as the Commission, by following the application of the Law on Gender Equality in BiH, which, in Article 32(2), provides for the obligation to comply with all laws and regulations with that law, has initiated the harmonisation of three media laws. The amendments to the Law on the Radio-Television System, Service and the Communication Act were thus agreed. We tried to prepare a thematic session in which we wanted to discuss the application of these laws, at our 10th session we made a decision on 23.01.2013, so on the organisation of this thematic session and we asked the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH to submit reports within 2 months on the application of these laws which should include numerical, or statistical data, as well as a comparison with the situation before the entry into force of these laws. We had to repeat this initiative twice, and we both lost our answers, and then we asked and received the support of the House of Representatives, which reached a conclusion on the 52nd session of 28.09.2013 which we asked the Council of Ministers to provide the delivery of this Report within 30 days. The Council of Ministers established its response at the 91st meeting of the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2014 and was therefore made up by the Ministry of Transport and Communications delivered in form of tables containing everything but not answering the questions that we as the Commission have asked and asked for
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22077	The estimated time for comment expired.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22078	Thank you very much. So, we reiterate our request that the Council of Ministers act on the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the 52nd session held on 29/082013 and that the requested data be delivered. It's offensive that federal television delivered a table that was concluded with, let me just say, 31.12.2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22079	A comment on the parliamentary question has also been made by MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22080	I'm sorry, I have a new parliamentary question. I may have pressed at the wrong time. If I can set it up or wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22081	Go ahead. So, a new parliamentary question and then let the other MPs apply for new questions. ( b) New questions Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22083	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I received a group of dissatisfied Hidrograding workers a few days ago, and you know the hidrogradnja case. Unfortunately, it's a sad and sad picture of our economy in the last two decades. Very much, for an hour and a half, a conversation with them took place, and a very sad impression leaves everything we've heard. There are many malfeasances, many very ugly and sad things, as such a respected company is being destroyed, not only in BiH as a whole. And this time I ask, I can only promise you, the question to the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH – Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to commit yourself to solving the problem of such a respected construction company with a very strong operational and very good people experienced who have celebrated us all over the world with their construction ventures. They demand very little regardless of all the Hidrogradnja affairs, they are looking for a simple new job, to start paying off self-independence, pardon contributions to pension-inhabitation insurance and health insurance, and to simply make these people live and work from their work and their family. It's not much, I think this one more appeal than any pressure, that someone doesn't think it's really helping these people, because such a giant didn't deserve to end so sadly. Well, thank you very much. I delivered all of this in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22084	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22085	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I mean, here's our mandate coming to an end, but I won't be able to finish one important thing that's related to the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets on the military range at Glamoch. In that sense, a letter came yesterday to the defence minister and to me as the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission asking the Ministry of Defence to prepare, do and carry out a professional analysis of the adverse effects of detonation, ammunition and mine-explosive assets on the military range and estimate the damage caused by construction facilities in the Municipality of Glamoc. In this regard, my question also comes, given that 178 citizens of Glamoc municipality have filed claims of damage done to their construction facilities due to inadequate destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive funds. So if nothing is done, unless the Ministry of Defence takes some measures, we will be in a position to be sued by citizens of the Municipality of Glamoc and sanctioned and put on the burden of the BiH budget. That's why in this sense, it is my question again that the Ministry of Defence responds as soon as possible to this initiative as directed by the head of Glamoch Municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22086	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22087	Thank you. I have a few questions and one initiative, but since there are colleagues and colleagues who want to ask the same thing, I will cut short, just read the parliamentary initiative I am directing to the Federation of BiH Banking Agency, the RS Banking Agency, and the Central Bank of BiH, which I am initiating that BiH's payment tariffs be reduced by 50% to the existing ones. Given that this initiative is based on the fact that BiH or bank payment institutions are constantly earning enormous profits, that the commissions on most of the payment orders are extremely high, especially at this time when the financial operations of most legal and natural persons are difficult, I think this initiative would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22088	Thank you. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22089	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So at the last session, we reached a conclusion that about 45 conclusions were made to the Council of Ministers, but my conclusion had nothing to do with the Council of Ministers, and so today I will renew it as an initiative and ask for the vote to be declared by the Administrative Commission of our House, which is the only one in charge, and it refers to - Representatives of the House of Representatives, by the end of the term of office, to waive the fee for permanent and other ad hoc temporary commissions of the BiH House of Representatives. The funds collected in this way are paid to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury's special account to help affected populations affected by floods, etc. So, I haven't made an analysis of how many MPs are taking money from these ad hoc commissions and how much funds they are, but listening to many politicians that there will be a much smaller inflow in the budget and from direct and indirect taxes due to these floods, any savings is useful. And one more thing, I can't influence or appeal, but people are incomprehensible from serving these NGOs, I've been giving and everyone here is getting to know the greatest support of the Centre of Civil Initiatives. And they came to Banja Luka, and said,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22090	Is that a question or an initiative?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22091	I ask a question to be discussed once, which is to review the work of these NGOs. And I use constitutional bilingualism, God Bog someone else tells me that now they come out and say, "These workers down there have spent 428,000 in parentheses and do nothing." And I've told them at least 20 times, it's easy to pass the law in Serbia when Vučić says about the bill's proposal, which will report, the law ends. It's easy to pass the law in Germany when Merkelov says, this law has most, it will bring. Who here will pass the law when he proposes chairing Bećirović, when we Srbin from 20 clubs say he cannot do that law. Or suggest Mr. Živković, and the Bošnjak say he can't do that law. Or suggest one of the Croatian people, these other clubs say they can't. This is a specific state, and it doesn't look anything compared to other countries. And of course I'm surprised that these Transparencys don't join, and I have a problem with people for days I can't live, every third day some mailman comes and brings, sued those MPs for not delivering their property records. So how am I supposed to deliver when I own a big plot of land with my sister? I don't know if it's hers or mine. And how am I supposed to deliver it now that it belongs to her or to me and that they have that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22092	Time's up, thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22093	This is where the time's up, everybody's just not us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22094	I thank my colleague Jovičić, and I believe he agrees that this is a specific, beautiful and existential state. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I have one parliamentary initiative, and it is related to the introduction of temporary measures in the area of agricultural and food products for a certain period of time, and the initiative refers, therefore, to the Council of Ministers for the Introduction of Seasonal Customs in the period 15.06. – 31.08., pepper – 1 km, tomato – 1 km, cucumber – 0.5 km and young potatoes – 0.5 km. The initiatives that have come from this Parliament, including Bolitko, have not produced fruit in this direction because it has always been said that the contracts signed cannot be introduced because there has been no market disturbance. It was usually an explanation. But I think, because of the natural accident that it is, it is now certainly evident that there has been a market disturbance and that this measure can be introduced to save what is being saved from that in BiH, and it is certainly one very important branch, village and agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22096	Thank you. Ambassador Saša Bursać has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22097	Thank you very much. 21 So here, as I have announced in a comment of the answer that I received from the Direct Taxation Authority, here it will now turn out that I am something, just based on management, no. I would like to say that I am not exempt from any BiH institution and, as I said, I will first of all refer my question to the Council of Ministers, and then to all ministers, to see if there can be done on the lease of anything. We were almost on the Commission discussing the same thing about a single agency and we came up with one frantic data when at a monthly level per employee in that agency 640 rent marks are paid, meaning on a monthly basis. It's one salary in BiH, it's no secret, so there's a lot of salaries that aren't that big, and pensions that we don't even talk about, and that's very, very much. So, I want to ask a question, so here you'll get it in writing – is it possible to do, then, a serious one-view roundup? See what the situation is, we know that BHRT here when it comes, people say they have 400 employees, 200 on maintenance means space and 200 on security, it's a very big space, we're their founders here, so let's see if these things can be coordinated. I'm asking you, so in this part, you can make very, very serious savings and these are multimillion-dollar savings on an annual basis and you don't have to just ignore it. I ask you to pay attention to this question of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22098	The word has an MP, Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22099	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have 6 questions, 3 for the Ministry of Civil Affairs and 3 for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and I will just forward them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22100	Thank you. Ambassador Nermin Purić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22101	I thank the chairman. I'll also send questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22102	Thank you. Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22103	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a quick question for the Council of Ministers. We have all received a letter from the Council of Ministers today, a letter from the Police Officers' Trade Union in three 22 state agencies. They are concerned about the announced Council of Ministers' decision that the Council of Ministers will, by its decision, abolish the regress for the use of the annual vacation, and in this respect, I am asking the Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Finance – is this information correct? Number one. Second – Can the Council of Ministers put aside its decisions by law the rights of employees in state institutions? And third - If this is to save, why not make decisions that will ensure savings in areas to which the Police Officers' Union also warns? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22104	Last reported within this point, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22105	I thank the chairman. I have one parliamentary initiative, which is that the Council of Ministers prepares and delivers information on the export of Skaut rifles from the Technical Remont Bratunac through the Republic Directorate for the Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. I expect that, in addition to the competent ministries in charge of granting consent, information from security agencies on this weapon, and information from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, was there an investigation into this weapon being conducted and conducted? For years, the media and competent agencies in BiH have reported suspected arms sales by former entity defence ministries whose buyer is Skout and a very discreet reputation in the world, which has been claimed by the investigative authorities to have investigated and claimed that there is an investigation in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I know that the RS prosecutor's office is in charge of the investigation on the application of the Technical Remont workers. Since during the flood last week, this weapon came out of the country and the export licence reads on the Republic Directorate for the Transport of Weapons and Military Equipment of Austria, I am interested in how this could have happened and I am looking for complete information on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22106	Thank you. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. We're moving to the third item of the Ad agenda. 3. A statement by the BiH Council of Ministers on the proposal for the conclusions presented at the 67th session of the House of Representatives held in 28.05.2014 in the debate on the Information of the BiH Presidency Council of Ministers on the consequences of the natural disaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1-15-67/14 of 10.06.2014 I remind you, the BiH Council of Ministers delivered its statement by way of conclusions from the 67th session of the House of Representatives. The foreign ministry also provided a review of the ministry's 23 activities during the May 2014 flood. All these materials you got. I'm opening a debate. The word has been given by the Prime Minister of BiH, Prime Minister Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22108	Presidents and distinguished representatives, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very, very short only in the water, because I think the materials you've got are relevant and correspond to what was asked of us at the last session. In fact, the catastrophic floods that hit our country in half of May this year caused significant losses in human lives, moved a large number of people out of their homes, and with a large number of slides and side effects caused huge material damage. The extent of this disaster in terms of exact indicators at this point is impossible, so I would say irresponsiblely, because there are domestic and international experts in the field under assessment for this area. However, it is clear to all of us that the damages are huge and that the restoration of family housing, economic facilities, infrastructure and other damages will be a long-standing process that will no doubt exceed the real possibilities of our BiH. That's why we're going to need international help. Given the generally known indicators of the obligations of all levels of government in BiH, it was a pro-promising response and putting all available resources into the function of saving people and property, and eliminating the consequences of this elemental disaster under constitutional and legal jurisdiction. Acting in accordance with its powers, the BiH Council of Ministers has held 10 meetings to date, continuously following the current situation, and at 7 sessions, it has made the necessary decisions and conclusions from its jurisdiction, which have been presented to you through the information and minutes provided from all these sessions. As it can be concluded from the material, the current situation in BiH has always been discussed at these sessions, the promiscuous conclusions of the BiH Presidency with the 68th extraordinary session of the 25th session, on which I submitted a report to the members of the BiH presidency on 04.06.2014, as well as the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from the 67th session that you received the Report. I note that we received these conclusions on 30.05. and you have there in the information about how the hodograms went and we were meant to go through these conclusions at the meeting on 10.06. and only then was the lack of information and, as the chairman, Mr Bećirović said, came and forwarded immediately during yesterday from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So, the evidence provided by all of your conclusions, which refers to the mandates of the Council of Ministers' work and all those organisations, the administrations that are at BiH level in charge of certain resolutions. The BiH Council of Ministers had an active relationship in a given situation and despite certain efforts to minimise it and to give these efforts a second role and character, we acted within constitutional and legal jurisdiction. When we have compiled the Council of Ministers' conclusions, the BiH presidency and the conclusions of this esteemed House, the conclusion is that they are complementary and that all aim to seek the best solutions to overcome such a difficult situation. In this respect, the Council of Ministers will continue its activities in cooperation with all institutions and will act to find appropriate solutions based on the law, as only this can ensure the rule of law and prevent possible adverse consequences. All 24 other activities that are not on this basis will not give the expected results, are a populist world surveillance, and unnecessarily disabling the public about real parameters and possibilities. In this way, the public also creates a distorted perception of the functioning of BiH institutions and trust against them, as well as the competences of certain levels of government. At this very moment, we are being overestimated to build mutual trust in order to restore our country. Of course, this is not only the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, but also of all other institutions, and therefore, as an executive body of government, we expect both support and useful suggestions in this regard. Since you have been provided with all reports according to the conclusions of this House, as well as other materials, answers to any questions will be given to you by members of the Council of Ministers and competent organisations and institutions. In addition to the material and my personal order to which I have obliged all those who are in charge to give an answer and refer to the resolutions to attend the mandatory session or in case of prevention to send a man who has the authority to answer your comments. I will only finally point out that the following materials have been delivered to your home, with statements from your home, and all in one goal to create a complete picture of work, not work, I don't know what everything, but to simply know what we've been doing. There is my report on the Council of Ministers' activities in the period from 15.05 to 30.06. We also submitted a report that I presented to the BiH presidency on 04.06. Also, because I have heard that you have not all been distributed to you, there has been a report from the previous session, a report that was in the opening of the presentation at the previous session of this House, and we have attached the minutes from all meetings of the Council of Ministers from 15.05 to 10.06. This is just for clarification. Thank you for your attention and attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22109	I thank Prime Minister Bevanda. The first one was applied for by Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22110	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, first of all allow me to make a few comments on the Council of Ministers' statement, according to the conclusions proposed by my colleague Belkić and I. First, to thank the Council of Ministers for the attention it has given to MPs' initiatives, which are not quite as common by the Council of Ministers, but here I would like to mention perhaps especially the attention given to the conclusions, i.e. the 6 conclusions proposed by my colleague Belkić and me and the 4 conclusions, I will also comment on these two later. I will only remind you that, among other things, we have suggested that the Council of Ministers all activities in the new borrowing focus on the resolution of the consequences caused by the elemental disasters. The response followed by the Council of Ministers concerns the activity of new borrowing in the context of these events, which means that all these other borrowing activities go their course. I would just like to remind myself, among other things, that it is a priority, the initiative was to make a new debt in the new borrowing a new debt aimed at the resolution of the consequences of the natural disaster. I am more surprised by the answer to the question, i.e. a comment by the Council of Ministers under number 3 where the Council of Ministers is in charge, I apologize, under number 2, where, among other things, it says that, let's say, the assumption that these areas will be priority areas, which are traffic, energy, residential and other infrastructures, etc., that these areas will be a priority when it comes to new borrowing, but in any case, the entity and Brcko District governments make a decision on external borrowing. I just want to remind you 25 that this Parliament is giving the final word. We always have, we're the ultimate instance of debt. And we've even had a few stops in the process of giving consent to ratification, which would practically mean suspending the entire procedure that led to lower levels of government. So we're not without a role, and that's even a very important role when it comes to external debt. Mr. Bevanda, I'll just remind you, this comment that you made under number 3. Your initiative was to keep all existing laws in place, for example. contain criminal provisions of 50 marks. Or any laws, so to make one revision, to increase penalties, for example. It is certain that in this way additional funds could be raised that could be directed in that direction, so here if this initiative could possibly help in that direction. And finally, your comment on the 4th regular initiative where we, among other things, have initiated that in co-operation, it is in coordination with competent institutions at all levels of government in BiH to provide a transparent way of managing aid. Among other things, we thought we didn't have a million bills, we had different levels of government to the local community opening donation accounts, political parties opening donation accounts and so on. We didn't think that you were doing a transparent insight, but that you were doing a transparent management. And it would be good if the Council of Ministers, I apologize to you, Mr. Bevanda, even though it is known to refer to the entire Council of Ministers, so a transparent insight in this regard to reducing risk opportunities and so on. What remained in the set of the 6 BiH Party's initiatives concerned among other things and the duties involved, whether the Fiscal Council. I know this has not been addressed directly to the Council of Ministers, but the Fiscal Council also acts as ministers from the Council of Ministers, which is to consider the needs of amending the budget and prepare a new medium-term fiscal framework. You didn't comment on this, but in the meantime I registered that the Fiscal Council had initiative and activity in that direction. However, what I did not expect, of course, from the Council of Ministers directly, but there was the possibility of being indirectly apparent, which is to repeat that we have called on all political parties to fund the pre-election campaign, especially for the printing of billboards, posters and other advertising materials, to be deposited at the expense of collecting funds to help the population killed in floods and slides in BiH. So here's an opportunity to remind you of this proposal and this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22111	Ambassador Šefik Džaferović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22112	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I was very critical of the Council of Ministers during last debate, because in the absence of the Council of Ministers' kind of activity that I imagined should be, in fact, recognised something that I then defined as putting the state and its executive institutions in some inferior position relative to other levels of government in BiH. And as I said then, so that was my view, which is still today, it is fair to say today, and I have already been in the opening part of the debate on the agenda to say in some way, that since last session of the House of Representatives, I have seen one more intense activity of the Council of Ministers on this plan. 26 I do not ask the Council of Ministers to deal with the smallest details of this issue, which is a multidimensional issue, a multi-institutional issue, I ask the Council of Ministers and the Parliament of BiH and the Presidency, so the key institutions of BiH, to give the highway directions to which BiH and all its institutions respect all levels of government in BiH and all competences need to move in order to resolve this issue. The state must answer the question of consequences to the smallest detail, starting with deaths and to the concrete damage we have on the ground. It must provide answers to sources of funds to reparate these damages, therefore compensate for damages and must give answers to the question of deadlines. Last time, when deadlines will be done, I suggested that the Council of Ministers draw up detailed information on what was happening and that the Council of Ministers offer us a proposal for measures to address this situation. I repeat, respecting jurisdiction, because this is not the time when we need to talk about jurisdiction at all, let everyone do their job, but just let him do his job. And if everyone does as much as they have jurisdiction and as much as they need to do in this situation, I hope that we can do the good part, we'll never be able to do it all, but in a good way to mitigate these consequences and eliminate the negative consequences. In this context, I call on the Council of Ministers to continue at this intense pace of activity, there must be no suspension in this field, and that is why I am, for example, pleased to hear the fact that we will have at least the first preliminary report in BiH this month. So the estimates are on the ground and that's what we need, because we need to know exactly what happened, what are the consequences so we can react. I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has noticed that the Operational Communication Centre, not the Operational Communication Centre, is definitely a problem, and that the Council of Ministers has therefore pointed to the problem. That should have been pointed out now. I am pleased that BiH will have a donor conference at the beginning of this month and should be seriously prepared for the donor, without donor funding, we will not resolve this issue. So I followed up in detail every day of the media, reports on the Council of Ministers' activities, and let's say when it will and when it sits down, then you see that it is possible to reroute 50m euros from European funds at one session, so 100m marks and reroute 100m dollars, so 150m marks from world funds for these needs. So it's done, and I think there's more of these sources and it's possible to get to that number that I was talking about at the last session of about half a billion marks. Certainly, therefore, support for the Armed Forces must continue to be and I pray that this, this is not a matter of pre-election campaign, this must not be a matter of politicisation, this must be in the focus of all of us and must be the subject of objective analysis only. So we have to say what it is and what we really think without any last intentions. That's why I think Mr. Bosić was right this morning, we're going to need a special session by the end of this month. I ask the College to organise this session and the Council of Ministers to prepare with that date when it prepares the information, information on the most recent data on the consequences and at least the projection of the proposal for measures and deadlines to come out of this situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22113	The word has an MP, Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22114	So I'm also going to try to say a few sentences, of course, that we should discuss this issue continuously, but in any case we should pay particular attention to this issue. First of all, I see from the introduction that the Council of Ministers, or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers itself, has committed ministers to attend this session itself through a number of conclusions, but I see that a number of MPs obviously have no interest in discussing this session, so a special session on this issue would give special importance. And in any case, I think that the proposal coming from the SDS with some minor remarks is therefore something that should be supported in any case, not because it comes from the SDS, but because there is a need for us to consider these issues at a special session. I really tried, I got this material this morning, I'd like to know how many of us MPs, elected representatives here, read this material. I'm asking you to be honest with yourself. Now it doesn't matter what we say in the cameras anymore than to be honest with ourselves how many of us have succeeded, I've surfaced this material and I'm going to make superficial comments, because it's impossible to make too many comments based on it, and I got this material this morning. That is why we believe that a special session should be held, whether the debate on this item of the agenda should be postponed, and we will say that we will continue the debate next week, so that you gentlemen read the material so that you can discuss it too much. I have to say I'm not prepared enough to discuss this material. And I hope, first of all, that those views expressed by colleagues from other political parties, which support the holding of a special session, will firstly establish accurate timing, thus practically preparing the Council of Ministers for the sitting itself, and we, as the people's elected representatives, could therefore specifically consider this issue. I'm reviewing this material superficially noticed the following. Let's say for example. When you look at the first page where they give us the answers from the Ministry of Defense in which, let's say, it answers the question of fellow Mešić about helicopters, the Armed Forces, and so on, there's a descriptive answer here that there's no concrete stuff. In addition to the specific things you have in response to the Ministry of Finance which, for example, on the same issue, on this site which has not been numbered, gives an answer saying that in connection with the proposal for a conclusion, it can be found by the Council of Ministers that the decision on a multiannual helicopter remonting project for the period 2013-2014 is a matter of "Official Messenger" No 103/13, which is provided with funds in the amount which, in my view, is quite sufficient to carry out a remont helicopter. The question is, who didn't actually do the job? Either I was misinformed by an MP or he didn't write well by the finance minister or something doesn't say the Secretary of Defense is right. So something's not right here, at least I'm noticing it, I'm repeating it superficially because I can't get into the details simply and it's not possible because I got the material this morning. In this regard, I would like to say that there is a need to form a committee of inquiry, there is no answer here at all to any of the conclusions put forward by the MPs, or not by the MPs, but by the parliamentary parties, and of course by the MPs who asked for one another, and we have asked for the formation of a committee of inquiry. With this in mind, I have repeatedly spoken here in the Parliamentary Assembly on several occasions that there is a need for the adoption of laws that we would define, in particular the legislative procedure of the Committee's work, because there have been actions and procedures that should have been carried out by the competent institutions at BiH level in relation to their legal jurisdiction and have not been implemented. It's simple, as time goes by, we'll be paying less and less attention to, therefore, the failures that have been made. Of course, by looking at these failures, we're going to create conditions so that you don't miss them in the future and simply sanction those who haven't done what the law says, start with 28 notifications, from the engagement of the Armed Forces. Who says we should commend the Armed Forces without a single full analysis, primarily those who can properly assess the issue of engagement of the Armed Forces. I don't argue that the picture on TV was, let me say, good when you see the minister doing the job on the spot. Was he supposed to do it like that or was he supposed to do something else? It's really professionally well-evaluated whether that's the only way the Ministry should function. And since there was at all a handling by the Armed Forces and what capacities were engaged and in which place, I have no such data. I don't need this kind of descriptive grade, it's smut and incomplete. If this is to be done by our committees resolutely, I have no objection to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security being discussed with regard to the involvement of the Armed Forces, as well as the issues of other institutions, and we will discuss this on our respective resolution committees, and then we will have a full debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and this would, in my opinion, improve the activities in the Parliamentary Assembly itself. So I agree with my colleagues who talked about the transparency of donor management. So I invite you not to let what has happened to us in the past happen to us, so that the donations that come to BiH end up where we don't need them, and that's what's written and talked about. If we do not follow the realisation of everything that is coming to BiH, and I am grateful to the Council of Ministers, which is listed in the tables where the help comes from, that means that the amounts of assistance are also known. The question arises, "Who is the way in which this aid is distributed?" What are the priorities and what are the cities in priority for that help? Who sets those priorities? How are they directed? Is that a Maglaj or is that a Shamaac? I don't know, and that's why I'm asking. In what way is this type of aid actually directed? So, that kind of information interests me, of course, and I believe that, I'm sure by completely judging by what the Council of Ministers has delivered to us that he is interested, too, that he wants to follow such an activity. If so, the establishment of a polling committee by the Parliamentary Assembly is necessary for us to take responsibility for what will happen later if the work is not done as expected by those who are threatened by the flood. Therefore, this proposal proposed by the SDS regarding the establishment of a survey committee makes sense and not only in the section to form just such a polling committee, but to access the adoption of laws on jurisdiction and the rights of the survey committee to simply have a legal basis. After all, I've said this before, and we need to do a comparative analysis of how survey committees in other countries do so, so we can hire a part of the expert staff from the Council of Ministers themselves, and in the end why we wouldn't hire a part of the expert staff that will help us to do this job primarily quality because we're not experts in the conduct of such species, in particular research, investigation or investigation, or whatever you want to do. I don't mean to turn into a courtroom, but I think we're just following the realization of what we're sure will be credited in the future as someone who hasn't taken enough measures and activities to ensure that those funds that aren't small and come to BiH come into the right hands to simplify the matter. So I would like to prepare for the next, if a special session happens, the Council of Ministers, above all, in the content itself and the part that was decided, in which direction it would be, therefore, targeted the funds that have already come in the way that it has already been shown in these tables that we have received here. I have to say, I repeat this the fifth time, I haven't really been able to get on and read this, I don't know who it is from the MPs, I'm taking off his hat who's got to do it, I haven't and I admit that I haven't and I don't think that I can talk about concrete things. 29 Of course, like our colleagues, we thank those resolute ministers who gave answers to the questions asked, I noticed, for example. that it is from the resolution ministry, don't make a mistake to think of traffic, the SDS's proposal to extend this team that will be dealt with by the Council of Ministers, by the chairman, that is, not by the chairman but by the people who come from the community of municipalities and cities. Whether and when it is realised and whether that kind of decision has been made, we will simply know, and finally, that the public knows that from, I don't know, the Community of the municipalities and cities of the Federation and of the RS is involved, and that person has a certain kind of responsibility to help those municipalities that need it. It seems to me that it's the minister of traffic or someone else, from that resistor it seems to me, I'm not sure it's possible, but I've noticed so many clicks I could see, simply put, there's a need to be first of all familiar with this material. I also don't know who's here to meet the material that was delivered to our benches this morning by a minister who hasn't arrived. The only one who was late is Zlatko Lagumdžija, probably because of his work, I don't think he's responsible, certainly because of his work, but his material arrived at the MP bench this morning. So let me conclude, therefore, that the time at the end, for discussion, of course, I think it makes sense that we organise a special session of the Parliamentary Assembly, thus showing a much greater interest for those of us who are talking about these issues are we sitting in these benches, as well as for ministers who came at the beginning, so that they must have other obligations, to form a committee of inquiry, to approach a law that will define the rights and obligations of our elected national representatives in order to monitor that donations do not go into the wrong hands. For a start so much, it just couldn't be more because there wasn't enough time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22115	Thank you. Since it has been mentioned several times today that it is necessary to schedule an emergency session and so on, for those present in the hall, and for the media, to remind us that our Rules of Procedure does not know the concept of an extraordinary session. Everything we can do is contained in article 62, 63, which describes who, when, and how he convenes the sessions. Just so we're clear. Replica, MP Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22116	A short replica of my colleague Bojić. I'm impressed that someone who five times says he hasn't read the material for 10 minutes is talking about the same material. And just for the sake of truth and for the public who has the right to that truth, it is not true that the material was delivered this morning, on each of the materials you have a date, so the Council of Ministers delivered its material two days ago, and the addition of the material came yesterday. So it's not true that we got the material this morning, but it's true that you came to work this morning and found the materials. So there was enough time for everyone to get to know this and tell him what he thinks, here you took advantage of your right, 10 minutes you were talking about material that you didn't read, here's a word and colleagues about this material that they had a chance to read. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22117	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22118	You see, colleague Magazinović, I think it's more important that I spoke too much, and as far as I was saying, it's less important now. I hope I didn't miss the subject. I was in the Parliamentary Assembly yesterday and in the committee session and I didn't have that material, maybe someone made a mistake, it doesn't matter now, and in the end, if I got it thoroughly yesterday, I couldn't have worked it out in such a short time. So this morning I got a hundred reports that, if someone had given it before, if it had an exact date written on it, at the end of the day it was quite clear when it was what material it was, I couldn't collect materials from various institutions, I was already sitting in one place, I guess someone would add these materials to me to deliver them to me in total and that material to have an introduction, to have content and to have some conclusions so that I could easily look at that material. That's how I think it should be prepared to be superfluous. So, as for the discussion on issues, so simply sitting in the bench I read the first page, I commented on what concerns the Ministry of Defence because I read a political statement by the defence minister that has nothing to do with the essence of the question asked by fellow Mešić who asked him if he had enough funds to get spare parts for the helicopter. I turned the next page on which the Ministry of Finance says the funds were provided, and that conclusion was realized. Well, that's how much I've read the material, that's all I've ever talked about. And after all, I won't lie to myself that I read when I didn't and I'm not ashamed that I didn't read this material to my colleague Magazinoviću, and whoever read it from you colleagues, I say hello, you understand. I assume that you will also make a significant contribution to discuss this material in detail, in order to deliver too many conclusions based on this material and I will listen very carefully to what you have prepared for my colleague Magazinoviću.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22119	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22120	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's to these materials we got yesterday, today, tomorrow, but I think it doesn't matter even when we got them, I want to figure out a few things. In two days, it will be about a month, not from an opportunity but exactly a month, as a significant number of residents of this country have been forced to flee their homes due to a natural disaster. According to these papers we got somewhere is about 50,000, 49,822 I think I read that information from these materials. We have 50,000 new refugees in BiH, and we didn't take care of them 20 years ago, and as we set out to take care of these, I'm afraid it will take them 20 years to return to their homes. I want to say today, no matter what it says in the materials, no matter if 31 is the Council of Ministers, no matter if this Parliament has discussed it, no one in this country, responsiblely argues, today has any program to take care of these new 50,000 refugees, along with all the institutions, state, entity, cantonal and municipal authorities, and everyone is waiting for someone. And I say this responsibly, because these days I've been asked by a few of these new homeless people, trying to look for interventions, ways, modality, because in this space the house was never made at 12 months, houses are made in summer, and the summer is short. Today, right now, at least for a part of them, someone had to provide material for people to start making their own houses that could possibly be covered by the first winter. And today, not just today here, we're sitting here once a month, and we're talking about the urgency of the problem. So once a month, we sit, we appreciate it so much that there's a need to sit down and then show concern, pour crocodile tears, and so forth. I have to say, let no one mind me, but I'm saying this with a significant amount of anger, we're already hearing arguments, which was expected, accusations among entities who would steal, steal, cheat in the distribution of collected humanitarian aid. Very good introduction to the donor conference. Who'll give you gentlemen the money? Well, I wouldn't give it to you first. You've already come to blame yourself. I'm not talking to you here who is, so those of whom the citizens of this country expect, expect that material, that log, that cement, that road to home, the jobs that are destroyed, so I'm talking about all of them. Now, they're going to argue who's going to cheat on who, because obviously that's the only way we know how to operate. I'm going to import this debate with some of the information that's been mentioned here. Yesterday, I was amazed by the age of information from a journalist who asked me – How do you comment on Mr. Lozančić's fact that the Council of Minsitarians considered the report on the implementation of the 2013 budget, that the funds of 7.5 million marks from 2013 were transferred to 2014 as unrealised and intended for the remont of helicopters? I said, I don't know, I don't know if it's true information, I'm paraphrasing this question right now. So, apparently, I'm saying, that's the question I've been given, members of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance certainly knows and the Minister of Defense is here, knows if it's true. If that's true, then I really don't know what to comment on, I mean, I don't know, I don't know, I'm just not that smart. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I guess we'll hear the truth, I think here's a lot of speculation about it, and the well-intentioned initiative of the MPs is set up, so we need to secure the funds, because we agents heard that we need money to remount the helicopter, so. And then it's said and this is in your materials that the request has already been realised. How, I don't know. Here's my colleague Bojić. He said the same thing. We heard there were 10 or 15 thousand people out of work. I've heard the data, I'm saying this, media, I haven't been able to find it here, I may have, but I haven't been able to find it, I've been quick to read this and I've been listening to the request, the appeal of the mayor of a municipality, I can say which Maglaj, who is looking for help in the labour force to clear the community. And only in Maglai, according to the real information, are 4,000 people out of work. Who's gonna clean up the Maglaj, the Japanc, the Amerikanac? So is it possible that there are no living people in Maglai who can clean up, in Kaknja, in Shamac, in Doboj, so is that possible? What are those people doing out there, homey? The guy on the third floor doesn't care, he needs to get to the one on the first floor, I don't know, or I don't know where he came from. 32 Hello, what are we talking about? We have 600,000 unemployed, let's hire these unemployed to work on clearing up, let's give them some pay or some kind of, I don't know, I don't know, that I don't remind you already here I've proposed the law, so I hope it will finally come to the agenda, because here it is, I don't know why, the procedure to come on the agenda at all for three months, about hiring young people. Here's our chance to hire young people. Watch out, there everyone who works in the field, the army does the pay, the police do the pay, the sanitary workers get paid, the healthcare workers do the work. And then someone remembers to pick up the students in the shoes and take them to the endangered area, and the epidemiologists say the possibility of contagion in the shoes, it's a disgrace to people. Don't make circuses. No one can enter that area without their boots. They need to be equipped, protected, guaranteed such security. And why everyone's getting paid, that's just that omaldin we don't let work for otherwise, and now she's got to work for nothing. Let's give them wages, let's pay them what they're doing, because everyone else is getting paid, and ministers, and presidents, and MPs, and so forth, everyone who's dealing with it, only those we expect to do again, and I don't know, on some basis, come and help those who are in danger, if they're the only ones who need to work for nothing. Next, it's me, I'm going to tie this debate to a question I asked the Council of Ministers. I am in favour of reviewing the division of many resources, many positions, and all of which are directed to help these people right now, but right now. But I'm not very selective, so let's not abuse it, so it can't go unselective. We're here, I'm not about to cut the salary to the cops in the state agencies, or any other donations, but I did, and that's what I suggested in the law that my colleagues in the last session refused to do anything, to cut the luxury, to eliminate, the luxury that there are in this country hundreds of millions and to give to the poor. That's what I am for. So let's not take it from the poor and give it to the poor again. It's not fair. Here, my law is not accepted because I'm involved in jurisdiction, and I hear that even dusting wasn't possible because of the entity line. I mean, it's so nice, it's morbid, it's morbid, I have to say this. And I ask you all, here's the Council of Ministers here, and you see how much you can do with other entity governments. I know it's not easy for you at all, give concrete measures. I heard in a statement last night about the Council of Ministers' television that a state account, to call it, was collected about 700,000 KM. So less than what you've given off the Council of Ministers' budget. But if we're thinking about emotion again, so to speak, the fatate world that's going to rush in here and give us money for our poor girl, and we're not ready to do anything about it, if we're wrong, we'd better not even organize that donor conference so we don't get in the way. So if we're not able, and I'm responsible here in front of the whole public, in front of all of you, and you know it as well as I do, only in the positions where I've been proposing restrictions, and here I see and the Union agrees with that, interestingly, I haven't agreed with them to tell you, so I see that they agree, in those positions we can save dozens, not to say hundreds of millions of marks in this country, and then tell these friends from the world, you see we've given up for our people, we expect you to help us too, we can't do it alone. And we've collected 700,000 marks, I don't know if it's all of our kind of donations or if I don't know it and part of our donations, and then we expect you to help us, so don't do that, it's not right. So, even if I don't forget, I'm not going to make any conclusions, I mean the conclusion is too much, we should, we're missing, we're missing a lot of operational concrete measures here. My proposal for a conclusion was not realised, as far as I was able to conclude, I may not have concluded well, because not that within 24 hours the Coordination Body was established, I think only the other day the Council of Ministers reached the conclusion that it was looking again, I don't know how to comment on it, I just don't know... 33
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22122	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22123	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. I appeal to all officials in this country to give up potentially planned travel to Brazil under the pretext of some patriotism, to show patriotism towards the poor in this country, to give funds for their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22124	Thank you. Discuss, esteemed colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. I would like to begin my presentation with the assessment that there is indeed a significantly greater intensity of the Council of Ministers' work on implementation and conclusions from the debate at the House of Representatives, and otherwise on the implementation and initiation of other tasks and activities that impose the changed situation. However, what I want to point out as a general lack of these activities is that there are no integrated activities. We see here the measures of individual ministries, but we don't see a picture of activities that are integrated, coordinated towards the same goal. I'm only going to take an example of one economy ministry, is it, that's the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. In this proposal, the measures referred to in point 2. General measures, proposed, say - the maximum exploitation of domestic raw materials and, among other things, in the case of inevitable imports of missing quantities of raw materials provide for certain relief on imports, and to ensure strict control of the end-use of imported goods. I don't even understand what's going on here, it's known that the processing industry is highly dependent on imports and that importing is a normal thing, that there's a normal regulation and I don't know how some extraordinary measures in that area are now, what are they actually supposed to do? Many measures are of a formal nature, so there is no assessment that the effect can be achieved, nor who will implement them. And the crown of all is the assessment, i.e. the proposal to hold a donor conference organised by the Council of Ministers of BiH, where participants would be familiar with flood damages caused in order to allocate certain funds for the recovery of damages, since the state does not have sufficient financial resources for that purpose and so on. So we settle into the role of an powerless subject who will say what the damages were and ask for financial resources. So where is the proposal that we will present our concept of restoration and that we will at all access economic governance under the current conditions of removal of the effects of floods. So, at the last session of the House of Representatives, I made a proposal, I don't know how he didn't come to the Council of Ministers, which is a proposal to make up the concept of flood recovery in the context of economic reforms and economic policy objectives this year. So we can't run a flood recovery independently of other activities that are needed to create an environment for these consequences to be as effective as 34 removals. For example. Well, we can't go out to a donor conference and ask for money, and we haven't solved a package of laws that ensure that this country isn't a haven of money laundering and that we have a complete package guaranteeing that it is so, so it won't be a haven of money, that we won't be an oasis of dirty money and that it won't be sanctioned. So I'm not sure that it's about underestimating this problem, I just think it's the result that this integrated approach to action to eliminate the effects of the flood is not prepared. We have an open question, donors offer us goods that our industry can produce, what will the Council of Ministers have on this? The furniture from Turkey is being offered. Our furniture manufacturers are probably complaining about that fact. White technique, the Bureau, and I don't know who, they're asking what they can expect in this situation? So, a series of questions are asking for answers, and this concept of renewal with policies that the Council of Ministers will lead would help us to have this clear idea, i.e. a clear picture of how things will be coordinated, so reform, the achievement of our economic policy goals and reconstruction. So I think, therefore, that perhaps, in line with what my colleague Lozančić was saying, I suggest that the conclusion we had, which we discussed at the last session, be complemented by the conclusions that the Council of Ministers suggest the adoption of the concept of a document that will be addressed to the concept of renewal and action programme in the implementation of activities on the renewal. In addition to the donor conference, it is an area of a number of reforms, measures that we need to take so that the recovery itself from the consequences of the flood could be more successful. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22126	Thank you. Two replicas, esteemed counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22127	Very short. We have already expressed our views on this, counterpart Hadžiahmetović said so, but Mr. Domazet's discussion invited me to sort of complete what he did not say. I fully agree with your findings and you've opened the right subject, but you've left out to say the following. So if you're saying that the state is an powerless entity in this whole thing, which has been given the opportunity to assess the damage, and to make a donor conference. And then you said, what should you – so, reform, package of laws, you mentioned state policies, etc., but you had to say the following, you also mentioned this package of laws that brought us into the blacklist situation, etc. And then you should have said the following: as things stand now, there is no political will for this. And so, we can't forget that. I'd be the luckiest Mr. Domazet if we were to realize this now and make these conclusions. But we won't agree here. Entities, the RS entity will seek its concept. You heard what Mr. Lozančić said, what we all saw. But not to open that story, for me it's the smartest thing that we can do right now, to move within what we're keeping under control, so our government budget, to see what we can give, to see what we can give, our institutions that have material resources, resources, etc. Let's see what we can give, and everything else needs to be seen and not counted on. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22128	Thank you. 35 And another replica, the esteemed colleague of Zijad Jagodić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22129	Thank you. I'd also like to replicate my fellow Domazet. This isn't an analyst MP, this is Parliament. You were facing that side, I think you'd like to address the criticisms to the Council of Ministers, Ministers, etc. I think it was still good that everything you've brought us, I fully agree, but as a member of the position, you should write it all down and really be analytically prepared and agreed and that the Council of Ministers has a good orientation, and that as an opposition we don't listen to, but rather to hear that you did something in your term, even at such a difficult time. I think that well, we've graduated long ago, we understand, and we didn't need such an elevated tone, because if someone needs to raise their voice and voice, it's what we need from the opposition, not you who in some way are making economic policies in BiH for not five years, I mean far, far longer. But I think that you should have writtenly agreed and sent it to the Council of Ministers, so that they could prepare for today or for the next period the best possible plan for the proper schedule of the total assistance to be collected, both in the country and outside. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22130	Thank you. I don't think anyone should raise a tone, because raising a ton means lack of arguments. In any case, the reply to the replica is an esteemed colleague, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, my colleague, Belkić, I would like to congratulate you on your high visibility. He was estimating what I said, what I should have said. Well, here, thank you, there's probably an extra light on what I was saying. And my colleague Jagodić, I don't know that I've raised my voice, because this is how I speak whenever I answer. So, and it's probably a subjective impression, probably driven by some other reasons. The reason I signed up for the replica is that I believe that this project is primarily a national project, where national, I consider it a state whether it is,.... Therefore, a project in which it is difficult to divide into a position and opposition, because this situation, the complexity of the situation, does not tolerate, or does not allow. On the other hand, I believe that the Council of Ministers has the capacity to also address these measures, in a certain way within the powers of the Council of Ministers, within the competence of the BiH state, that when it comes to these issues, we can obtain a very important document. And besides, so will those who, of whom we ask for help in a very clear way. So I think Mr. Jagodić, you don't need to score here and draw those stories about running economic policies. It is known who has led economic policies over the past 18 years, that your party has given the greatest pain there, both in good and bad 36 sides. But I don't think that's at all the place and the moment that we're talking about it right now, but we need to be focused on what's possible, and I think the Council of Ministers can achieve what I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22132	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22133	Maybe just an explanation. Here's this, so I had absolutely no intention of estimating what he meant, I said I wish that the thing itself had been reduced into real frames. As for access to the whole opposition thing – position, I think we have shown that there is absolutely no difference when it comes to the interests of general nature etc. I, my colleague Domazet, expressed concern that this situation where we really are, which requires the synergy of a high degree, will not lead to that. And only the Council of Ministers face these problems all the time and so on. And so I say, I will support all that, here you are in the Council of Ministers, in power, etc. Everything that goes in the direction of creating economic policy or concept, the concept of reconstruction, I will absolutely support it, but I'm afraid that such a state document will not be able to win. And I was just saying on that subject, that we are now spending our strengths and resources in the way that we are practically deciding about it. And try through coordination, recommendations, etc. things to solve. We launched the initiative last time, of course it is no longer spoken of, because we will insist that the Presidency initiates the co-ordination process in accordance with the BiH Constitution and invite the entities to take the Sava system, the Sava River System, protection, etc. Between the entity and the Brcko District, it coordinates. Not that the Brcko District doesn't know what Shamac or Nuts is doing, etc. So that's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22134	Thank you. Replica, the first deputy chairman, respected colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22135	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. So, at the last session, we debated for 12 hours, and almost all the MPs, including myself, spoke here and presented certain suggestions and conclusions. I can't take the impression in fact, and nothing has happened or changed, I can't take the impression that we're actually talking here for different reasons, among other things, that no one should be offended, for reasons and self-promotion, for reasons of carrying out their own frustrations, etc. I don't think anyone could benefit from that. And that's when I suggested and re-proposed. So we have a lot of material that can serve the Council of Ministers as a recommendation and crack for their action. We have a lot of conclusions. What we can actually do, what the Council can do, is propose to us as Parliament a programme of measures. Let's not put it this way today, so to speak, we're not presenting who's going to make better conclusions, a better discussion, a better friend to the victims. Actually, my colleague Lozančić said a few essential things. We can, if we want dozens, maybe a hundred million reroute, so to speak, from the funds at the BiH institutions to help the flooded, if we will. We can make donations that are already available, Chinese donations of motor saws, tractors, motocultivator etc. Reroute to 37 areas, if we will. We can pass a law and it can be a proposal from the Council of Ministers which can, as I say, make sense to discuss, so the Law amending and supplementing the Budget Law, where we can reroute all those funds that are not necessary, as regards capital procurement and all those things that are not necessary to be implemented in this year, if we want to. And now this one, talking about some things about the position - the opposition, after all, we are all somewhere in position, not opposition. In fact, this fellow Jagodić, you are the position in the Federation entity, where the largest funds are available, etc. So, uh, I'm asking what's been done here? So, here, that's my appeal, and we can talk for another 12 hours and finally figure out that we didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22136	Dear colleague Nermin Purić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22137	I thank the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I also absolutely respect these remarks by my colleague from the club, Mr Ljubić, when it comes to the discussion at this point in the agenda that was discussed at the last session. I'm probably the only one who didn't discuss this subject at the time, of course not that I didn't think it was irrelevant, but at that point I simply felt there was not enough information to be adequately talked about. Today, following a statement by the Council of Ministers on the conclusions that were then proposed, I believe that there is much more and more information and opportunities for this story to be directed in the right direction, for the reason that this is likely to continue, discussions on this topic will continue. I sincerely hope that the people affected by this accident will benefit more from our discussions today and in the future. Of course, the scales of disasters that hit BiH and a far more orderly state would lead to trouble, and in order not to do so, for example, with BiH, in which, unfortunately, there is no clear indication of who is responsible for what, or when certain merits are collected, they are all responsible, and when it comes to responsibility and when a response is needed, of course, there is always room for eskicipation. I don't think the Council of Ministers has adequately responded to its mission, or any level of government. I repeat, the scales of this disaster are extremely large and very difficult to react in the right way. Of course, within the Council of Ministers, certain ministries have been better equipped, some ministries are working better, some ministries are now proposing better, more concrete solutions, some ministries are being held back on some of the flat-rate proposals, speeches should do so, etc. instead of me, I did it and I did it. But it's up to us, then, in the next period to make this whole story concrete. In this sense, I have in some way the need to single out the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, which, in its statement to fellow Đuguma's conclusions, said very specifically, therefore, the ministry on that day and that, did so too. I think it would be good for the rest of the ministries, i.e. the Council of Ministers to go to Parliament with one plan of action, with concrete duties and with concrete deadlines, when what will be done. And I believe that this way of working, so where there is a serious debate and serious communication between Parliament and the Council of Ministers, can only be used, therefore, to get out of this situation as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible. The 38 Floods in BiH are definitely a new moment, and in this context I support the Ministry of Refugees' views, which it believes are the current projects, hence the current funds that are designed to address refugees and displaced persons' problems, that they cannot be engaged in this flood story. We absolutely support this because floods are a new moment, and refugees and displaced faces are the problem BiH has. The new moment does not exclude the problem we already have and therefore, I do not think that we should take from one group of those in need and give to another group, because that is not how we solve the problem. What has particularly concerned me throughout this story, I have not seen a reaction in the Bosnian Herzegovina public in any way is a lack of trust, not only by citizens in terms of how funds will be used, donors, how this recovery process will be carried out, but also in some way a lack of trust by something we like to call an international community. In fact, in some ways a lack of trust by the EU, the World Bank and the UN has taken responsibility to determine the damages in BiH. Of course, thanks to their engagement, this job will be done quickly and efficiently, but from that, at least in my personal opinion which may be wrong, radiates one dose of mistrust towards us who are in power in BiH, because we are all in power in some way and we all carry part of responsibility. So, this one dose of mistrust, that we can do this job or that we can do it right. And even certain comments from representatives, or officials of the international community in BiH, go in the sense that we will not allow local authorities, so the BiH authorities to allocate these funds, but we have our control mechanisms, etc. I think it's very worrying about the government in BiH and I think it's a good guideline for those who will come after these elections, who will create power, so how to act, because I agree that building trust in BiH is something that we all have to work on together. I support the initiatives that are heading for Parliament's thematic session to be scheduled on this subject, but I also expect the Council of Ministers to come to this thematic session with one plan of activities that will have concrete deadlines, concrete carriers, therefore, certain jobs, so that we can bring this story into one as soon as possible, because my colleague Lozančić noticed it well. So, the summer takes a very short time, and it is necessary to react quickly, so that all those people or at least those who are in the most critical situation, so to feel some benefit from this whole story that is happening today in our House and also in the premises of all BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22138	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22139	Thank you. Obviously, the law that defines these things, and in it, the coordination body that is crucial, does not work. So Mr. Ante Domazet was talking and then there's no integrated activity because he's not running the roof body co-ordinated. And then the question is, all of this is done, is it abuse of position and authority, when the coordinating body doesn't exactly do what it is. So much for the introduction, about the whole situation. And as for specifically my proposal, which I last put in place, regarding the establishment of a payment system. Here, among other things, I've examined the materials, it's listed 39 which wants to mitigate the consequences of agriculture. I think we're looking for a donor conference and looking for funds in the area of agriculture and rural development, not to set up a paying system agency in agriculture and rural development, but since 2008, which precisely defines how these funds are being deployed, we have already got about 30 million euros at our disposal. I think there's our credibility falling to raise funds. That's why I appeal again in that direction, when it comes to this segment. And when it comes to the general economic policy that needs to be led, I'm in favour, so now these damages that have taken place, this one economic one, let's just say it, a chance for economic momentum to rebuild this whole thing, that right now we don't have to make another mistake, that we have more imports, that we have more foreigners here, we just need to activate our domestic forces, because that's our chance to do it. And today I have proposed here an initiative that goes in that direction. And I agree as quickly as possible to secure a session of the House of Representatives, where even more specifically and concretely we could draw conclusions, the normal conclusions that the Council of Ministers would draw for us and support them in all this, as regards the law and certain operational matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22140	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22141	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome you and everyone present. Much has already been said about this subject, and I would like to base myself on this report on the situation in BiH, an updated text sent by the Ministry of Security. At first, I would really like to express my gratitude to the Council of Ministers and to intensify their activities, as well as to certain ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Security, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Indeed, they all did a lot of work. What I would notice here in these acts that we have received, that indeed the data that the headquarters delivered, certain headquarters are not complete and did not cover all affected areas. Here in this table I can notice that the canton from which I come, the Un-San canton number evacuated, the number of slides, flooded objects, flooded land, we don't have any figures. So this one, in any case, whatever this is a source of data from the Federal Staff of the Civil Protection Federation of BiH, we need to have this data. I understand and understand that expert damage assessment committees in entities and Brcko District are still assessing the damage in the flooded area, and it will take days. But this one, I also noticed that there is no harmonised methodology for data collection, data processing and data presentations from the field. In this context, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers, whether we are working on and on what methodology we are working on and whether the need for the creation of a unique methodology for collecting, processing and presenting data from flooded areas, which should be applied, should certainly be applied by the Federal Civil Protection Staff and the Republic Staff for emergency situations of the RS and the Staff of Civil Protection of the Brcko District, and all logically, in order to update and pool data on damage and needs assessments. Mr. Domazet really said something that, normally, I agree with all of his exposure, but especially what he said about the Council of Ministers having the capacity in 40 solving this trouble that has hit us and that this project is indeed a national project. If we consider that a third of BiH's territory is affected by floods and slides, that 50,000 people have been evacuated, and that over a million people have actually been affected by all this trouble, then we should really all be concerned and engaged. And indeed, this time I welcome many of the MPs I have spoken with, who have visited the territory of flooded areas and it may be good for the media to hear about this information, because many of them here have not taken pictures and appeared on television, because it is still a feeling of the advantage of the executive authority. Let the media know that many of us, many of us sitting here, have been in these affected areas. What I would point out is what we could react to, we couldn't do this, we couldn't know there was going to be a flood. But here's the Ministry of Security pointed out one thing that I'd put an accent on, and that's the possibility of triggering new rinks and the possibility of stronger earthquakes, stronger earthquakes. And what does this matter? It is important to stress that the entity's competent institutions do not have formed structures that should provide the first response in those first 12 hours, 10-12 hours, in the rescue beneath the ruins. And also the Ministry of Security, through the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue in BiH, has no possibility of forming such structures at the state level. And this time, I would really point out to the Council of Ministers, that we need to bring as soon as possible the additions to this Framework Act on the protection and rescue and this misunderstanding that we have, as soon as possible, solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22142	Thank you. Next respected colleague, Boško Tomić, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22143	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here's because last time we had all the space and opportunity to say the problems we've faced and in what way to solve it, there's no need to praise the Council of Ministers, nor to criticize it, but I think certain things have been effective and quality at least given information. Practical results will certainly need to be done through the program. First of all, what should be done in a quality way, which in this report is to see different figures, it is to do according to the EU criteria exactly according to the description of what needs to be done, so that the world recognises us, not that we are doing it in a way that the commissions will do it, so that as much damage as possible to individuals, for possibly some compensation. It needs to be done in a good way. Then you can also make quality decisions when it comes to where you point those funds. Here with full respect for the work of all donor conferences, we here must rely on our own forces. It's to stimulate the production of the building material needed at this point in time for reconstruction and to do so by their own factories. Why would furniture make anyone else, except for the factories in BiH, why would a brick, a log or, import from anyone, if we could produce it in our own environments and not say other things? This will help our economy, thus stopping the number of employees, because there has been a fall, and thus create conditions that can be reacted quickly and efficiently. I suggested last time, I think the Council of Ministers should make such a decision that grenades that have not begun, are realised and are directed at these funds. I don't think 41 should change the law there, but if it is necessary and it may need to be predicted, but Article 17 seems to me that these funds can be redistributed within the existing budget. We know that last year some funds were transferred that weren't used,...now, we're looking for donations, we haven't used the funds at all, we've had that opportunity and we've had that chance, and this one, we haven't even started the activity on their realisation, and here we have factories that have stopped, because their machines have been destroyed, and because they've had both their re-production and finished products died. Therefore, once again, the Council of Ministers should consider the situation which of these grenades can be established. If we look at it, the RS government will come out tomorrow with a proposal to the National Assembly and have proposed a series of concrete measures, of which for a reduction, i.e. a refusal to pay 1.5%, etc. Not to mention other cost cuts, where it is predicted that in various ways there will be savings, close to 90 million. That way, the Council of Ministers should do a project with which they will be taken from these funds and from grenades that have not begun to be realized. The first thing to do is to solve the issues, what the colleagues said, that they could rebuild the people of the house, that they could go back there. It is something that is a priority, and immediately afterwards turn to business operators and train them, so that they can start working as soon as possible. An initiative should be launched at the level of BiH, i.e. the Employment Service of both entities and the District, that unemployed workers go into public works, that those who are unemployed, means there is no need for additional allocation of funds, but in each of these municipalities there are at least 1,000 on the bureau, unemployed. To start public works, to pay for some of their resources and to help you with their work, and especially at the restoration of these dikes, because we now have a situation that in a few, in several places the dikes have been breached and God forbid a new flood to come into the situation. For these reasons, I mean to run public works at BiH level, provide a part of the funds, some of the funds can also be used for employment, and in such a way we can hire people to work, and we can make certain benefits for all of this. I think that, in the end, I should just say that the Council of Ministers should adopt a programme of measures and those that are short-term that should work immediately and those who are long-term, in such a way that this problem is immediately approached by its realization and resolution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22144	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a little while, since I discussed it last time. What happened happened, reactions to all levels of government followed, citizens engaged on various grounds, NGOs and what Professor Domazet was talking about, perhaps in that part there is still a need for some coordinated action, so that all of the situations we found ourselves in, easier this, these problems are resolved more easily.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22146	Wait a minute, please. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22147	And here are some of these global things that we're talking about, first of all, people's accommodations, seed restoration, etc. But what I came forward for was also through Mr. Domazet's statement, I was distracted by a sentence that the state was powerless. The state is powerful, the state is strong, the state can't be powerless, so everyone fights to have a state. However, I will say that they are powerless or incompetent or disorganised people who at this point are in charge of the state, so they cannot solve all these problems or they do not want to prevent any problems. I Ponović what I said last time, the SDA was expelled from this government, to be part of the possible, let me say solutions, because it asked that in the budget of the BiH state we have more resources, so that we can solve these problems among other things. Well, then you could've waved us out of this power. Why? Because we said we needed those funds to run a helicopter, that we needed funds to buy a new helicopter. Here's the problem with the dust today. Well, we suggested, these are cheap air tractors that put out the fire and ask, now they're destroying mosquitoes, etc. It's soldiers' equipment. So, at the moment something happened, if we had been trained at least in this division of the ministry, armed forces or security, we'd have less damage today. That's why we suggested it then. Now either it's obvious that some future governments need someone who's psychic, to predict whether something's going to happen or if this is going to be a warning that for the next Council of Ministers or all levels of government, there's a possibility in the subconscious that some elemental disaster might happen. I was then speaking perhaps burdened by the problems of the fires we had in the last 2-3 years in space, mostly this, southern Bosnia, down from Trebinje towards Mostar or in some other areas, but then we saw that we could not have an existing operation, with an existing way of organising to be in service and in this part of BiH citizens. And that's when we paid that price, we were simply eliminated from power. But today it is and I agree with the said, by all the speakers here, indifference in position and opposition, we all have to be in office, that in one appropriate way we solve the situation, meaning for the better, especially when it comes to citizens. But then again, we need to build a system where everyone doesn't get involved in everyone's business, where they'll know who's supposed to do what. It needs to be activated in the next period, and it has to be the task of future authorities, to provide certain resources, and then move on to these activities as they restore them, which they were built 40-50 years ago, and everyone forgot they needed them. The question is whether we need to continue to build highways at this time or restore homes for people who have been killed in this period. And what I disagree with, and that's what I said last time, and please don't get into that story, don't make donations, and this is about a Chinese donation that's already in phase, let's say realisation, reroute, don't take from one poor girl and give to another poor girl. Let us through this donor conference provide what is needed, and that for today's problem, and that which is the subject of Annex VII and this, the return and that we have defined through this Return Strategy, that we do not disrupt and that these funds that are already planned and that know where they need to be focused, be focused there and that I read these people get what they're promised and that they can continue to exist further. Here's what I'm saying. There's not much to talk about. What has happened, lessons are to be learned for future work, especially if one of us is part of that parliamentary majority since the 43 elections in October 2014, it should be strictly kept in mind that in the mandate in which this works, these things can happen. And then I'm sure we'll be in one piece more ready to wait. Come on, this isn't the subject of this, we can't at the state level solve this problem, but it certainly needs to be suggested to entities, that these civil protection bosses are capable of human beings, not to say, people who have come out of some military system, who know what the commanding process is from top to bottom, by verticals and horizontals, so that they can easily target tasks on the ground, recognize those who are performers in the realization of these tasks, and obviously that didn't work well now. I followed, and I saw how people did or didn't manage in this situation. That's it, thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22148	Thank you. The following came to the discussion by a distinguished colleague, Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22149	I thank the chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present. So what just to realize that unfortunately this is a human tragedy. The human tragedy that has gripped nearly a million people inside BiH and we are not allowed here, nor can we share in opposition and position when it comes to such things. Here we must, whether or not, human thought, do the human part to do as much as possible, what can be done as quickly and as quickly as possible and as intensively to help people who are at risk at this point. This situation will certainly leave indirect clues and act indirectly on every man within BiH. And surely opposition or positional action will not do anyone any good if we attack or if we just criticize what has not been done so far in the way that it may have been done. Let us leave analysis of what was not done to the authorities to say what was not done, what could not, knew or at the end of the day what could not be done in the subordination. I hope no one will think to count how flooded the Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian or other houses are. I hope we don't need that, but we need every citizen to help, and ultimately we won't count how flooded the houses of the SBB, HDZ, SNSD, SDS or anyone else are. The same approach to every citizen because they died in this process, and that is our duty, our duty, ours, at the end of this moment positions in this Parliament to work together on a situation where people are in tragedy. We are aware that it has been difficult to make plans and programmes for those who could affect this disaster in BiH. We are aware that it is a short period of time that plans could be made if we do not yet have an assessment of the damage itself, but we must work on emergency plans, on, what they say, making immediately plans of those that are possible, plans or plans. If possible, any national part in which it will be established, if not, will then be divided into several plans that, if we deploy municipalities, cantons, entities etc. Okay, but let each of you take your responsibility at that level if you are unable to create a common plan that will go, if nothing, in the coordination process to help every endangered citizen. I am also aware of the fact that the Rules of Procedure cannot and has no extraordinary session, but we have a situation that requires perhaps a continuous session of Parliament, whether it is daily, weekly or in 10 days. To help the Council of Ministers, too, to be with such talks as the mass of colleagues today tabled certain proposals that will help to adopt certain 44 activities and the Council of Ministers or other entity governments and others to help create a common concept at a given time and a better sychronised action to help. And that is why I think it is necessary, that we may even think about it being a weekly or ten-day session of this Parliament, so as long as we have the material to discuss them and to work to help the proposals as much as we can. It's our duty, it's our duty, and after all, we can't stay in one month's sessions. No, I think everyone will resent us and ask us how much we'll be directed at everything that's done at certain levels to help and do in the recovery of all this. For a donor conference we have to be prepared, we have to sort things out how to do them. Whether to do it by the programs, who will be responsible for individual programs, who will offer certain programs, because we must be aware that the war traces and after the war have left a bitter pill in the throats with donors. In the end, we discussed here how much donor funds have come and how inadequately distributed and I think that this opportunity, this crisis opportunity to fix the situation within BiH, must be used to make all investments, all the funds that come to BiH must be as transparent and monitored as any structure, which is both the prosecution and the SIPA, or police structures in the event of any non-transparent or spending of the funds that was in the war and after the war. And I would ask only the Council of Ministers that in this part, and aware of the fact that it was not prepared for a complete process or could not be done, regardless of what caused the Coordination Body which had to react urgently in the processes, follow the responsibilities, follow the levels of all the authorities who were responsible for, from Civil Protection to all other structures and have feedback that where it is wrong, if it is already clear that some things in the Coordination Body are not understood, that together with entities, the District of Brcko, agree if necessary and change persons. To propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Federation and the Brcko District be activated and continuously this Coordination Body is working to help Parliament, citizens and the Council of Ministers to do together what is our duty and human obligation. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22150	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22151	Thank you, Mr. President. I've reported that I'm replicating one of these statements from an esteemed colleague of Đugum, and several times already brought out by many in this country. We can't make plans because we still don't have the damage assessment. Tomorrow we'll probably, here we're told that the damage assessment could be done by 18, that it should be by 18.06. The Donor Conference was originally announced this month and was extended next month. I'm afraid we'll say until it's donor time and then we'll see what we're gonna do, so I'm afraid there's gonna be a season of vacations, so until we get back from vacation, we'll see what we're gonna do. We know from this information that the Council of Ministers has delivered to us that we have 50,000 new refugees, we know that, and we know that we have two categories of objects - flooded and destroyed, and we know that. So, what else do we need? I don't know which concept, but we can determine the concept – for a flooded house, a family whose house is flooded this country will give so much. How much? Let us evaluate here in this House, at both houses of Parliament, how much we will give to the families for the flooded house and to repair the house. We'll give that much for a broken house, whether or not we get 45 from a donor conference. So, don't let us project much of the help to make sure we can get some money out of it. So let's make a commitment to ourselves. This country will give people, so specifically, we can do it. And we have a list of names and names of people, and we already have that today. For the flooded so much, for the collapsed objects so much and we can do it right now. And it's time to work right now. And I just replicated this, not more to you than to develop a consciousness -- while this is what we're going to be, and we're looking for some alibis that, here we are not doing, so let's look for ways to do something right now, so in that sense. There are things we can do today and we can plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22152	Thank you. I remind you once again, it is a statement by the Council of Ministers on the concrete conclusions we delivered at last session of the House. It would be good to focus really on what's on the agenda. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22153	My colleagues, Đugum, would like to say one sentence that he didn't say and could be added to all the series he's been using. The Council of Ministers told us in one place that a working team was formed to deal with the way in which the distribution of assistance arrived on the basis of donations would be carried out. And I think it's a question of all the questions. And as we are not able, and each time we have problems with different distributions in this country, so that will be a key issue, because we have already seen certain political parties that have come out with clear views that can't be done according to how many people have been killed by entities but everyone has a proposal to make it look. And we'll trip right on the first step. No matter how much money they get from donations, what, it'll send an even worse message when it's seen that we can't agree on it. It would be very good if, no, no vacation, if within 15 days we had that deal, but as we know the elections are coming, we should get some cheap point on it, and we won't accept any argumentary reason why someone should get as much or as much. And that's where all our stories of good intentions fall, none of it. So all that we get will be collected into one account, there's no way we're going to deploy it, nor are we going to agree on it. And another thing, the RS government has made a decision to form a special fund that should be financed from its own reserves, from donations, from international loans. So we already know that any man who has suffered damage, whose home has suffered damage, will receive 5,000 marks for it. Entities governments can make suggestions on how and on what money will be spent. Is the Federation Government working? Are we going to wait until after that because it wasn't a plan that couldn't be used? We're not the first to hit, entity governments are the first to strike, they have to do their job right. So, please, we do our job, which is to put pressure on the Council of Ministers to, as soon as possible, solve the issue of the distribution of money that we get based on donations. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22154	I will ask MPs indeed not to abuse the possibility of replicas, especially not to replicate unspeakable words. The Republic has an MP, Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22155	I think that we fully understand each other, Mrs. Majkić, I'm just saying in this concept whether one or more plans are going to be made, whether each entity is going to make its own plan, it's important not to make confusion, not to make negative energy because we have no right at this point. I fully agree with what you have said – let the proposal be made. But that's why I'm just saying that we need to sit here more, and we can't sit here once a month, that we need to discuss with one normal atmosphere because it's only more active and better to help the citizens. I fully support it, we can't do it in one piece, no. They have things they can't and can't find political consent in certain times. Let's be aware of some things and accept that. And this is to say that there are some things in the material delivered, Mr. Chairman, that I can say that there are also materials that are referred to entities again, the entity must be declared. We can't say about these things about what the Council of Ministers has delivered, about some proposals, I'm talking specifically from mine, going to entity ministries or governments to make them known, and then when we get their answer, whether or not we should do something and at what level then we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22156	Thank you. The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't repeat what was said. I'm afraid these views of the Council of Ministers speak more about trusting in others, relying on donations and relying much less on ourselves and what we can really do. I will ask only one specific question to the foreign trade minister, namely the CEFTA agreement, its 27th member allows BiH to raise customs duties on imports of goods into BiH from other CEFTA signatories. Those funds, if we had done it, and it could have lasted up to 200 days, so we could have raised customs during that period, we could have collected those funds and sent them where necessary. I am interested – Will this be too late and why this is not done, why is this measure from the CEFTA agreement not applied? Unfortunately, I don't see a lot of concrete things here except what entities are going to suggest to do, which is still not exactly an excessive jurisdiction of this ministry, but I'm not going to get into it. Here, I just want that concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22158	MP Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, has a word. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Well, I won't be much longer than this, either. I want to say that first of all I want to welcome the idea of a special session about the catastrophic floods in BiH. It is indeed a question burdening these days by a huge number of our citizens, the whole country has been hit. This isn't a disaster anymore, this is one cataclysm, and I think we all really need to give it a maximum of ourselves, of course I don't want to repeat it all. As far as the Council of Ministers' reply is concerned, I would like to say that it is a good idea from the Council of Ministers that they sent, means the answers to the individual conclusions of all of us who have been making suggestions about the situation. So, they give concrete answers to the conclusions, which is very good, no matter what the material may have come up a little later, so it's a little confusing, we couldn't really study it very well, but I think it's given, so by points, by conclusions, which I like very much. Last time I discussed the coordination of certain BiH aids, that is, the performance to ask for assistance from relevant international institutions, when I spoke about health care, of course and the protection of human environment, I said that this coordination would be very good, so between the countries of the region, these are countries, so Serbia, Croatia, BiH. This way, we, it is quite clear, means that we do not have the same status with regard to European integration, does not have the same BiH status, means on its own, as does Croatia or as does Serbia. So, we have different treatments regarding the withdrawal of IPA funds and similar material costs, but I think that maybe, from this material, I haven't seen enough, to make such co-ordination meetings in relation to certain expert aids, especially expertise in relation to health care and human environmental protection. So, as far as donor funding goes, she'll go her own way. I have seen from this report of the Directorate for European Integration, meaning that certain IPA funds, of course, cannot be withdrawn as we thought we could and that there will be certain difficulties compared to Serbia, right, which is also affected by these floods. As for the distribution of this aid coming into our country and the transparency and distribution of aid, I think we really all have a very good experience here in this country in the post-war period when we were all witnessing that such a kind of humanitarian aid, which this country, or its citizens, almost ended up in very suspicious flows. It wasn't one, so one case, two, five or a hundred, it was hundreds of such cases, maybe thousands, where in very suspicious transactions humanitarian aid ended, so we had people who got rich in such troubles for people, meaning one after-hour situation. I think we've all had enough experience getting out of such a terrible situation that we've had in the afterlife. This experience gives us the right now to not allow any abuse of the distribution of humanitarian aid at all levels of government, to start on entity, state and all other means and to have ways, means to fight such a phenomenon. We can and will mean it. Simply through different coordination teams at all levels of government, simply to see the transparency of this process, that people simply feel that they can't do what they did. Because if there's a phenomenon like what happened in this past period, you know what's going to defile the people and our government and our so-called. The desire to help them will turn out to be something that shouldn't quite turn out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22160	Ambassador Dragan Vrankić. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22161	Thank you very much. I'll try for a while because I think it's all said, not to repeat myself, although some of the debaters took what I wanted to say. In fact, I want to welcome here the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his fellow ministers because we are a little impotent when people sit here like this and we all give them liftness as if they have all the power and everything stands up to them and that everything is in their hands, and we all know that it is not like that and that the situation in BiH is different. And here we've heard that our own agreement or the coordination of the allocation of funds that can't happen, thus talking about the overall role of the Council of Ministers that could have been. But here, at least it's good to hear in a story if it's not real like that. What I think played a great role was on the Council of Ministers, i.e. through the Coordination Body, I would like to have the chairman of the Coordination Body there to tell us about these things and to tell us if he had fulfilled his role as he should have had, and I would like to know that the Resort Ministry was in full capacity to make this look different. I'm sure it would look different. What's left of the Council of Ministers is that she does her part that's left, and that's that. to co-ordinate primarily international assistance, to analyse the situation that has so far been the failures that have been for the next period that will be and to work together with other BiH institutions to make assistance as effective as possible. I think we should do a standard assessment so we don't deal with ourselves tomorrow, she has a folk curse – if you want to entertain someone about yourself then... [[It is not understood because Mr Beqirović also speaks at the same time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22162	I'd ask a little... to keep it quiet.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22163	Because it certainly won't work for anyone. No matter how much anyone gets, they'll be small, and it'll be everyone's fault. And you would support this initiative that was said in the end, I think my colleague Lozančić spoke of it, the greatest help he will give himself to our endangered citizens. They'll feel the most about themselves, they'll do the most, they'll be honest with themselves because they don't have a choice. And if we make one gesture, and it's called to cut short the time, and they're in a hurry most, to help them urgently, they'll do the work themselves. And I mean, here's a quick one calculation -- if we have 30,000 people who, I don't know, are threatened, immersed, if we give 10 thousand marks, and we already have as much as I can see, and the redistributed funds almost in that amount, means by 10,000 marks, they can at least paint a good part of their apartments, paint, get to some new phase, and then over the next period, through these standards, we go with another phase to see how much we can do with the real basis to help them, i think that's going to be the time. And what I particularly want to point out is that this second part, when it comes to economic aid and economic activity in a particular area, is that what we call industry and garden should be shared well. A large number of our people build their own personal standards in the garden by villages, and if we help him plant something, something that will feed him over the winter, I think it's very important that we take care of it. But there's also the power to make this kind of help that's going to be effective. And I think we should focus on this. 49 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22164	Thank you. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, come in. I hope you'll be specific and clear, too, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I'll start, not with praise, but with the real state given by the Council of Ministers, chairing my associates, and I'll do a digression. Last session we've been discussing here for almost 10 hours... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm not gonna criticize them to write what they want. But in 70% of the information funds, I also read my statement that I said no one had seen the chairman, that he had hidden somewhere, that the foreign minister had escaped. There's a stenogram of what I was saying, people publicly thanked me that it wasn't, and I said objectively that people were engaged. But let's move on. So, first I'll start with the donor conference. Don't expect much money, there wasn't a flood in BiH, it was in Serbia and Croatia. And I can confirm right now, and you'll find that out later, more money will get Serbia than we will. They have such a position and is now the most popular politician in Europe, Vučić. If Vučić says 70% to Serbia, 10% to Croatia, 20% to BiH will. And if it were up to me, I'd say 70% of BiH and what's left of it, but I'm not asking myself. So don't expect much from donor funds. Furthermore, I do not agree with this figure on the allocation of funds arriving at BiH level. This is like the Dayton Agreement – 49% Republika Srpska, 51% Federation. Well, the flood didn't choose how much territory it would destroy. I'm happy that the flood didn't destroy the Federation's larger territory, but I'm unhappy, as you all know your colleagues, that the greater damage caused by the RS, that's what all the parameters say, that then 45% of RS falls to someone's mind, 45% of the Federation. Let's help people out there where it's more destroyed. If you want to, and this is an opportunity to create a unique BiH in the sense that you view it equally, both entities and Brcko District. No, but someone dropped 45% of these, 45% of these. It's impossible for people, let's help out there who's more at risk, that's the point. Secondly, we had a chance, and I think we have a right now, why the Direct Taxation Authority didn't come out with the proposal right now,... Council of Ministers, here's what he's proposing, looking for... I don't care if anyone accepts it or doesn't increase the excise duty on cigarettes, alcohol, luxury goods, and that, from these means, they help these people and endangered areas. [[isn't understood because someone keeps getting into the word]] And if someone doesn't think of increasing the excise on fuel, people have to sow what's left of the surface where something can be sown, it needs to be reduced on the contrary. We have never succeeded in promoting and reducing the green diesel, and here is the opportunity to tell these people who have experienced it – here is the fuel, some of the subsidies will be. No Niko has such a program or initiative. Besides countries that are much stronger than us and more financially and organised, which are one-national, would not have endured this disaster. And now what it means for that man out there who has nothing to say today -- these parliamentarians down there were really, having a debate, but today he wants 10 or 50,000 marks to do the house because the season is coming when it's possible to do it in two, three months, it's not possible to work in December and January. So that's what we need to do. Since I don't want to make a contribution and I won't make a contribution, of course I will listen to everyone, but I won't accept that someone here honors me as some party or MP individual promotes his political option and party through his own discussion. What a party to this misery and accidents and options. Here's an option to help the people. We have options, but I'm telling you now, I've heard the statements of many officials that no one will be left without a house until the beginning of winter. I wish I could thank Bog, go every day, one day go to church, one at the mosque, one at the cathedral to say thank Bog that this helped. But it won't be people, I tell you, we don't have that kind of resources. There's been a huge accident. We don't know the scales yet. There's data gathering. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22168	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22169	So here I am finishing up, so, chairing whether it's possible for the Directorate for indirect taxation tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, to provide you with an increase in excise duties on cigarettes, alcohol, luxury, this, this, that, and that, and that's why we always have money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22170	Thank you. Does the Council of Ministers have a need to speak to us? The debate is closed, so there are no more registered deputies. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22171	Here, me and my colleagues listened to your comments and everything. I, to me, am truly glad that, with all the criticism and the rest, we gave one relevant material, and it was thematically related to your conclusions. I understand that it may have taken more time for them to read and the rest, but I told you that we got your conclusions in 30.05. and fortunately, we simply considered it in two official sessions and collected it, and when we got to you. All of this we have additionally delivered is simply for one reason to avoid any manipulation of how many sessions, if anything has been done, we have delivered the records and see what we have done. 52 I would speak only of something, and Mr. Jovičić spoke a moment ago, and the introduction, and also of the materials it stands: the Council of Ministers did not speak of any percentages by any means. We said 18 ends the evaluation and I think it's the most fair and correct, this data... An interresor working group was formed, there was one question whether it would be complemented and it was known to be complemented by representatives of municipalities and cities, but that is in our 9 conclusions, a working group was formed to establish criteria, but again the basis will be all tied to what the assessment will show. When it comes to saying, I said one thing about a single account, we made a decision in the ministry, the Ministry of Finance opened an account and he was one, but we also asked everyone else to deliver, on the Fiscal Council, to deliver the rest to us so that they could coordinate the information on the help that comes in, I mean the money part of the story. In the Council of Ministers, there are 42 million, it's not in one session, it's been negotiated with Brussels and then it's come to us that we get a 42 million relocation for these purposes. It wasn't our decision that the Development Agency approved 100 million, it was difficult negotiations with the World Bank, and the rest of us had to re-enter the IDE programme and have those interest-free assets and everything. It's perfectly normal to have no division like that, and neither can we, nor can you even make a decision on something that isn't finally verified, I think we're clear to the end. It has been shown, and this has been established, that the koordinacijski Body, in accordance with the Framework Law, and the rest simply does not work in that part so that, within the framework of the law, what might work. But the same thing we'll pass on to you when we get an official attitude with the records why it didn't work, who didn't respond, who did the obstruction and the rest. That is then, that is what we have concluded and I do not want to express my position, but we will get a simple official indication that we will forward to you as well. We tried, I said, in our approach and appearance to deliver to you what we can and to honor today's deadline, because if we hadn't done that, it would probably be a question and what they're doing, that they haven't delivered to us. My apology, I say, because we've come to time and we've been trying to do what we're doing in time, and through these reports, the records and the rest you can see transparently what we've been doing. And quite normal to give both dissatisfaction and doubt, I consider it all to be one normal thing. Thank you all for the discussions you've given, I've come to understand them really well-intentioned, and certainly also a guideline to all of us how to set ourselves up and the rest. Some things ad want us to make and make decisions today, that is, to propose decisions and other things, we cannot do so without certain bases. And one more thing, and I wrote it there and we put it there, if we play law and make improvisation, that's the way to anarchy. We need to stick to the law, what we can and cannot do, not always consume those legal opportunities that we have, all the effort is aimed at doing everything according to the law. With all these good ideas, I will understand, we will ask that we deliver both the conclusions and these discussions of yours, and those things that were not related to the answers and the previous questions we will normally use and respect in everyday work. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22172	Thank you. We're out of press releases. I'm closing the agenda. I'm giving a half hour for lunch, and the college has a meeting. Thank you very much. /
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22173	Here comes fellow Bojić, which makes us a quorum so we can continue the session. Thank you. And we're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01- 02-1-60/13, of 30.04.2014, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 30.04. with a request for an urgent examination in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. At the 66th session held on 14 May, the emergency procedure application was not accepted, and the House decided to consider the bill in the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional Foundation and Principles Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered to 11.06. The opinion is negative. The Commission has not established that the bill has been suspended with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22175	It's not a replica, it's a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22177	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. We today, you've already said in your introduction, so I and that part will try to comment. At the last session, this House did not accept the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion, because we discussed the Opinion and returned the subject to the Constitutional Commission, with a warrant to deliver a new opinion. You are, and I will quote what it says in this opinion that I have. The opinion states that the Constitutional Commission has not established, I will not read any further, so it has not established. Me now, you said it was a negative opinion. For me, this is not a negative opinion, this is no opinion to me. And I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, propose that we do not treat this at all today because it is not negative opinion, it is not positive, that we understand ourselves, but that we ignore that we are today, that the Constitutional Commission has considered this at all, that today we take this off the agenda, and that the Constitutional Commission determines in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and its powers of opinion on the bill proposal, however it is, positive or negative. Because the Constitutional Commission here is notifying us that she hasn't determined, so. Furthermore, here we are not interested in the duties of any committee in charge, to say what it has not determined. The commissions exist to tell us what they've determined. It has a constitutional basis – it does. No constitutional basis, no constitutional basis, and okay. And I think hiding behind this, playing words, we haven't established, I don't know, maybe they haven't even discussed it. I mean, we can ask 54 hypothetically now countless possible and impossible questions. And in order not to do that, to treat this as if we didn't even get this and to call upon the Constitutional Commission, to carry out its business task, in accordance with the conclusion of this House, with the last session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22178	Thank you. Namely, so there is an open debate on this agenda point, you have made a business complaint, that only Opinion does not correspond to the business way of writing opinions. Constitutional Commission President, distinguished counterpart Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22179	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Everything that's been written has been done by the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, it is a decision of the Constitutional Legal Commission which is in accordance with the Statute. So we plead when it comes to two things. We declare the compliance of the Law with the Constitution and the legal system of BiH and discuss the principles of this Law. We, as the Constitutional Commission, have dealt with both things. Therefore, we have not established that the Law is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system and that is what is written and is derived from the Rules of Procedure. And we didn't support the principles of this law. So the principles of this Law are not supported either. This is a double negative opinion on both the constitutional basis and the principle. I don't remember the Constitutional Commission on this Act having had a chance to discuss it before. I don't know, you're probably confused, thinking of something else. We discussed this law, if you remember, last time, as a law being discussed by an emergency procedure here at the House of Representatives. And we turned down an ambulance, refused a shortened procedure, and he came into a regular procedure, and this is the first opinion of the Constitutional Commission on this matter. You did talk about some other questions at times, and we gave the usual opinion, as we give. And when I answer for the discussion, I'll tell you why it's negative. This is just an answer to you. Therefore, continue the procedure as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22180	Thank you. I must confirm that this is actually the first negative opinion on this Law and I must also confirm that this is a common way of delivering opinions by the Constitutional Commission in the work of this Parliament so far. This is the first time a parliamentary intervention is put in the form of an opinion, i.e. a business intervention, and we would now have to discuss this proposal of yours, whether this is the right business or not, if this House said so. But as chairman, I must accept that so far, the Constitutional Commission has written its opinions. Dear colleague, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22181	The clarification is back to business. 55 Page 41, where they prescribe the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission. Under point (e) consider proposals for laws to be adopted by the House in relation to their compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system as well as with regard to legal processing, and submits a report to the House with opinions and proposals and legal corrections, etc. So, we're ustavnopravni legal, I apologize here, this isn't the second time, it's the first time, but anyway, it means to me today basically, if we accept the fact that the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, we're discussing opinions, not the law. Because when it's negative, we're only discussing opinions. Now, what's negative? You also said in your reminder, in the introduction, etc. that's a negative opinion. Where does it say it's a negative opinion? Who said it was a negative opinion? The chairman of the Constitutional Commission says he finds the opinion negative. I happen to know here, the president of my club is a member of the Constitutional Commission and I know that on the question – was the bill in accordance with the Constitution 4-4. So neither did most of them say it wasn't, nor did most of them say it was. What makes this negative? Please, because we very much change, that this is just an opinion that doesn't oblige us and that we are now discussing the bill, regardless of its opinion, okay. But this opinion, which here is the chairman of the Constitutional Commission and the Chairman of the House, says it's negative, I don't know what's negative for. It says here in this report that it hasn't been established. So here's how it's not positive. What's he like? Is he neutral? What's he like, I don't know? So, because the consequences are, you know, when we're discussing one thing, if it's negative then we're discussing opinion, if it's not negative, then we're discussing the law. And for that reason, at the very least, look out for this particular situation, to be clear. I expect, here is how I understand this Rules of Procedure, that any commission, especially the Constitutional Commission, tells us, is not in accordance with the bill, we have established it. And I respect that, however it is. And that's negative for me. But when they say we haven't found out, I don't know what it is now, either, what they've found. And then now I'm interpreting, a member of the Committee says that for him, this is a positive one, one of the members of the Committee, because it's 4-4. So, what is it, how do you determine a negative opinion? So, uh, I have to say that this, I mean, here at least, that this question, for the purpose of taking it off, is to consider the Constitutional Commission, to give some interpretation, for future cases. It doesn't matter, it won't change anything, but
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22182	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22183	But it's not correct to say it's negative, when the Constitutional Commission didn't say it was negative.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22184	Thank you. In fact, I've done nothing but practice in this House so far, just follow. Both counterpart Božo Ljubić and counterpart Bećirović, when they were before me, letters that were identical and received from the Constitutional Commission, interpreted in this way. So I didn't engage in a different presentation of the practice that she was doing in this House. This is now the first time a businessman has questioned writing reports from the Constitutional Legal Commission, which I'm not saying is not justified, but my mistake in interpreting 56 so far has been the practice of this House. And of course, your proposal to interpret this on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleague Ševik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22185	I think, Mr. Chairman, that you cannot put anything to the vote, but only the Commission's opinion, because it is against this Rules of Procedure, because the Commission according to Rule 101. The law, from the College, within seven days, which decides within which time this will be delivered to the Commission, also sends it to the Constitutional Legal Commission to give an opinion on compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system and to the competent commission to give an opinion on the principles on which the Law is based. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission said it did not establish that the Law is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I know what the gentleman is talking about. And afterwards, Article 103 states that the Constitutional Commission, after considering compliance with the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, delivers the Opinion of the chairman of the House within ten days of receiving the bill. You've received our opinion on constitutional law, you've also received an opinion on the principle, and we have not supported the principles. Therefore, we have not established even the existence of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, nor the principles. And, of course, this is an attempt to get things back for some procedural reasons. Gentlemen, there are no procedural reasons Mostar can't be solved the way you suggested it. I will now take the opportunity to, having answered for the discussion, to as
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22186	Is he a colleague of Džaferović's, I'll give you a word later for the discussion. Let us conclude this question in a way that, given that a colleague has said that a injured Rules of Procedure and cited a member who has been injured, and we in the College do not have a single opinion about it, and the Rules of Procedure obliges me that when we do not have a single opinion in the College... I ask the House. So I have to ask Dom if he's been injured by the Rules of Procedure in connection with my colleague Loznačić's proposal. If the Rules of Procedure is not injured, we continue the session and discuss Opinion and you get the word for discussion. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22187	I don't think it's okay. Of course, you're running a session, we're up until now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22188	I have to ask Dom when the Rules of Procedure is someone
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22189	We've done this before. You're interpreting the Rules of Procedure, this is written as it's written, this is the office written. And so you're the chairman, each one has his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22190	When one of the MPs quotes the Rules of Procedure and we in the College do not have a single view of it, I must ask the House if the Rules of Procedure has been injured. And that's 57 quite clear and so far we've done so, and I think it's quite a good practice and I don't see the need at all to raise any further tension and to have a discussion about this. If Dom says he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, we keep working. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22191	Just a fact that does not mean anything, the very fact that the practice has been so far, does not say anything about the essence, or the quality of the way it works. Because absolutely some practice can be fundamentally wrong. I do not, of course, claim that it is wrong, but there is a certain discrepancy that is visible at first sight between the formulation that one commission, in this case, the Constitutional Commission has delivered a negative opinion on the constitutional basis and similar formulations as it was used in this so-called so-called ‘Constitutional Commission’. The negative opinion, and the formulation is a reminder, I paraphrasise, that the Constitutional Commission has not established that this Law is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Therefore, it did not establish that it was in conformity, and it also did not establish that it was not in conformity, or did not establish a negative opinion in the true sense of that word. And maybe because of, not so much because of this particular thing that's here in front of us, but because of some future practice, it would be good to try to define a thing maybe through some debate at one of the next session of the Constitutional Commission, or in a similar way, so that we don't come back into some similar dubiosis, doubt and so forth.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22192	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22193	Of course, my colleague Džaferović. So this is all what we're talking about business interventions. Don't be afraid, let me say, that someone won't get a word of opinion or the law itself, no matter how we decide to discuss this. So we're talking business interventions. A colleague, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22194	So, Article 107. The Rules of Procedure say – a debate at the House, when the first report by the competent commission or the Constitutional Commission is negative. And attitude 1 says -- when I read to the Kolegijum of the doma, literally as it writes, receive the opinions of the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission on the draft law from which it arises, but now be careful that the Commission has not established compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, the point, or has not accepted the principles of the proposed law, in which it is etc. etc. Therefore, the definition for the first time is talked about compliance, so for the first time in Article 107 is talked about the very form of the report. It says – when the Kolegijum of the doma receives the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and the competent committee on the bill from which it stems that the Commission has not established compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system. You've got the definition that's written in article 107. And I ask you, therefore, the chairman, that this is not put to the vote. If you decide to put it to a vote, then I call on the House to reject this proposal, because it's obvious that it's one thing, as I would say, of a magic way, that this thing is coming back again and that 58 of it is being debated. We're just wasting our time, when this bill of law is at stake, gentlemen, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22195	Thank you. Also business intervention colleagues, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22196	Here's when we're on the subject of magic or some other way, so I'm just using the opportunity to continue reading an article that was magically respected by my colleague Džaferović, failed to read until the end. And all of this he read is true and then stopped, or he did not accept the principles of the proposed law on which the commission is obliged to explain the reasons for the rejection.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22197	There's no microphone on. It's got a ugliness.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22198	It says, well, you should have read the thought, for the sake of correctness.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22199	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22200	You didn't even explain that. It means that opinion's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22201	I'm talking about constitutional grounds.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22202	So it's not good, it's not negative, it's not positive.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22203	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22204	It's not complete, it's not business, so you need to get it back to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22205	Thank you. Saša Magazinović replica. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22206	I think the chairman, your proposal to vote on this, may seem like some kind of solution, but I think it's absolutely unnecessary, because we've treated the opinions of the Constitutional Commission, whose member I am, here's the whole mandate. So every time the Commission adopts such an opinion, it is also written in the text. You don't think every time the Secretary of the Commission types it up. So, we got caught up in it, too, but at this point, we hooked up well. And this was a great discussion for the story, when we had a debate on both the Rules of Procedure and Parliament's work, efficiency, etc. Last time we worked needlessly until midnight, it looks like even today, if this debate continues. I'll be forced on behalf of the club to ask for breaks, then we as a club to set ourselves up on it, to open up inside the club a debate and see what and how and how to plead. But I don't think there's really any need for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22207	You see, colleague, let me just say, that I am obliged to put to the vote any proposal to injure the Rules of Procedure, which considers any MP to have been done on an individual matter. And I have no consent in the College to interpret the same Rules of Procedure. With this vote on all the following cases of this type, the House will give its opinion, whether it is hurt or not, the Rules of Procedure and I do not need to agree with the College every time, whether it happens or not. So this solves the situation, the Dom solves the situation, whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. And if it's all right with you, because of me and for the further work of the House, it would be good to vote. And if you don't mind, I'd like to put you to the vote right now. The question is: Is it a injured Rules of Procedure, which my colleague Lozančić stated, a member in this case? And I ask the House to prepare for the vote. ______________(?) Chairman, before the vote [[no microphone turned on]] Is it necessary to take a break? Why am I telling you this? Fellow Members, so some MPs have said it would be good if we worked until 7:00 tonight, to go to places where many of us would like to be. But if we open this agenda point this way and all the other agenda points work, I'm afraid we'll have to keep working after 7:00 to finish this session. So, if you can hold off on the breaks, about the discussions, we'll be able to finish this session by that proposed time. If not, I'm afraid we'll have to keep working after that. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22209	Chairman, if we hadn't lost an hour unnecessarily this morning, as you said in your address, if we hadn't lost an hour unnecessarily, it would have already ended, and this is how I demand a break on behalf of the club. It takes us five minutes, and here we are staying here in the O.R., and we're not going anywhere. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22210	A break at the SDP Club's request, five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22211	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22212	So choose your colleague, Berize, someone to burn... [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please prepare. My colleague Magazinović, do you need to explain your break? Short, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22214	Here we have consulted, and we have indeed made a huge effort to try to understand this business intervention and possibly to meet by adopting, but we have not found room for this, and the SDP Club will not vote in the direction that the injured Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22215	Okay. Please prepare yourselves. So we are voting and the question is whether the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the formulation of the Constitutional Commission Report and the formulation of the Kolegijum, is a negative opinion. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. If voted against, it means no injured Rules of Procedure. For six against twenty-four, abstention two. We konstatovati that the Rules of Procedure has not been harmed, that we move on. With regard to this point four and all the other points of the agenda, I can inform you that I have decided to shorten the debate for five minutes, in order to be able to complete this session within the scheduled time limit, and it is fortunate that we do not have to vote again for the next point of the fifth, which is also a negative report from the Commission, to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure. Now we're having a debate on negative opinion. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22216	I thank the President-in-Office, and I thank him for the correctness of giving the House to declare whether or not he has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. I still think, but this, obviously, doesn't work long ago, there are no principles and, uh, I'm not surprised anymore that the experts of the Constitution and constitutional law say that the amendments to the law that exists in this country's constitutional justice system are not in line with the Constitution. Okay, probably even the basic 61 laws don't comply with the Constitution, but here's the question for constitutional defences, namely those who say that the amendment of the law isn't. So much for the Constitution. It is obvious that we are referring to the Constitution in the way that the esteemed colleague Džaferović had just done, when he was reading one norm, article 107, so I agree to half, so we will apply it, and the other half, and who will watch, who will read. And here's the biggest problem if you read. And here is the biggest problem if you engage in matter. There's a bigger problem here if you don't let anyone manipulate you. Then you're in trouble. Then there are many who will correct you, who will resent you, which here will find ways that we haven't established any formulas, we don't know what we're going to say, eh, that's what I think. And what you think, it certainly doesn't matter. I'm not sure this kind of defense of the Constitution and this kind of principle will get us far with the defenses of principle. After all, it is no wonder that we are otherwise dysfunctional, because in order for the institutions to work anything in this world, there must be fundamental rules of the game. We don't have any game rules, and the one we've established, we're breaking them as we please, before noon, one afternoon, the other. So, we have a negative opinion here, so you say, so did Dom, and Dom, that's how it was accepted, by the Constitutional Committee, that is, we have four votes from members of the Constitutional Commission who think that the Amendment to the Election Law, which was established by the House of Peoples, voted, is not in line with the Constitution of BiH, and it would be good to respect this article 107, and say what is not in accordance with the Constitution. I'd respect it, I think I respect everyone's explanation. But to just say it doesn't match and you won't get away with it, I mean this, those stories aren't for different spaces, not for parliamentary debates. There's nothing to go through or not to go through, to us. So someone who's interested, someone's interested in this law being accepted, and someone doesn't need it. This law needs the citizens of Mostar. And all of them, and all those who defend the interests of the citizens of Mostar, so be they Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat or those undetermined, let them know that by not adopting this Law, these citizens all remain unsettled, discriminated against, because they do not have the rights that all other citizens have in all other units of local administration and self-government in BiH. Let's know I mean it, so we know what it is. With this bill we allow, we propose, to accept, to allow the citizens of Mostar to consume the same rights as all other citizens in BiH. It may be a sin, but here we want all citizens in this country to have the same rights when they're big and when they're small. By this law, we propose that citizens of the City of Mostar finally choose their own bodies of local administrations and self-government. It's about time, two years they've been working I don't even know how, maybe someone knows I don't know, means nothing. And they all suffer, I repeat, they all suffer. If someone... that this is the law that will bring something good, spectacularly good brings only to the Hrvat, only members of the HDZ, is in great error. In Mostar, there is also a significant number, a significant number, a respectable number of members and two other constituent peoples and members of those who have not declared themselves either, nor as others, nor as third. So, I can only appeal here, that on the conscience of all of you, that this opinion that is not negative, means because the Constitutional Legal Commission has not established, that we reject this opinion and that we are asking for a correct opinion, an opinion that will enable Mostar citizens to have, fulfill their constitutional rights and passively and actively voter rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22217	Thank you. 62 Replica, dear colleague, Mirsad Đugum. I hope you realize that the replicas have been shortened, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22218	It's not a classic replica. I want to repeat what I said last time. Mostar citizens certainly do not have the same right as other citizens and that this should have been resolved long ago and that it is not only an obligation of this Parliament, but it is an obligation if there are no positions to be agreed on. I said that we had 94 meetings with OHR when it came to the City of Mostar, I was a direct participant in these talks and I have to say that in this process HDZ had only one position, about other processes absolutely did not want to discuss any other proposal, any other parties. The same attitude at that moment was given to the SDA. In order to vote something, to do something here, we must have if nothing, a parliamentary majority agreement that makes this Parliamentary Assembly and that goes away. I don't know how functional it is, how effective it is to ask it as a question here and to propose the law of the one who knows 100% that with all the efforts of the international community, there's no result, I don't know how much we're going to succeed here. I would pray then that the parliamentary majority, or the parliamentary majority in Parliament, agree on this and have enough time to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22219	Thank you. A colleague of Jaferovic's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22220	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Last time I spoke practically about the content of the negative opinion both on the constitutional basis and on the principle, when we talked about the procedure, at the last session, and let it all be taken into account. I'll just remind you in cartoons of the most important things. So, I have no intention of leading the controversy with anyone anymore, which means the definition of compliance with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. Something may have a constitutional basis, it may be contrary to the legal system, why a definition is given, has not established compliance with the constitutional situation or has found that it does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. So, I don't want to educate anyone about this we have a long experience here in Parliament. And here, you've decided to put it to a vote, the House has given itself up and said what it has to say and I hope it cleared up, so that's the situation. What is the problem, therefore, of the constitutional basis of this Law is that, beware, the electoral law describes the canton constitution, the Brcko District Statute, the Statute of the City of Mostar, the constitution of the entity and the Constitution of BiH, which prescribes the way officials choose, and it cannot describe anything else, but rather than what has been done in these acts. It would be the same as if an election law was now proposed, which, for example, changes the structure of entity parliaments or the choice of entity officials. We have to write it in the Electoral Act, as it says in those acts. It is also important for Mostar to write what is written in the Statute of the City of Mostar and what is written in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH. 63 Therefore, this is the problem of the conclusion, which said it was not in line, that we did not find it in line with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. This cannot be done by the Election Law, the Electoral Law should do so and describe and it has constitutional basis in it, but must be in accordance with the legal system. So it's not in line with the legal system, because the Statute of Mostar is in effect. There is no provision put out of force by the Constitutional Court, which requires that the number of council members from the election areas be harmonised with the number of voters in the election areas. But the election areas remain and the city's electoral unit remains, so it's not deleted, it remains maximum ethnic quotas, at most 15 out of each, and it's not. This Law does not respect all this and proposes a completely new, nowhere yet prescribed solution and that is his problem. And when it comes to principles. The principles are not, therefore, acceptable and not supported by the Constitutional Commission. We said we'd talk about it here at Parliament. The issue of Mostar is therefore a question related to the Washington Agreement, the Dayton Agreement, and that is a speciality in BiH, as is the Brcko District. And no one has the right, especially by voting to change a solution that was a condition of peace. This can only be changed by the concentration of all of us here in BiH, and this concerns all the issues. This is where the two of you made a deal against the third one on a settlement that was a condition of peace in '94. Year, then late '95. And that's the problem, and that's the non-acceptability of these principles. Mostar, Herzegovina-Neretva Canton, Middle-Bosnian Canton, so specificity, exit BiH to the sea, passage BiH to Luke Ploče free pass.... The Republic of Croatia through Neum, is a complex issue. That is today, I would say one of the most important points in BiH. And to deal with that, which in the House of Nations will agree two clubs and vote against the third and expect it to be accepted here, that's something that. So that's why the principles of this are unacceptable. I call on the House of Representatives to support the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion and that this law today finishes its procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22221	Thank you. Niko of the Lozančić replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22222	The replica of both previous speakers. And to the esteemed representative of Đugum, this law is not in the jurisdiction of the City of Mostar. So, I'm looking for a debate in Mostar about this, because people are interested, so they have a problem. This law in the power of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the only place to discuss it and bring it to this House. I think he's in charge, and I think he's in accordance with the Constitution, and I think there's a solution that can be made here. In line with, I would also like to remind you that this Law is not a product of someone's own free will, wishes, but this is the consequence of the Constitutional Court's ruling, which said certain provisions of the Statute and other acts and the Electoral Law were contrary, they clearly said that they were not in line with the BiH Constitution. And we have an obligation to bring the Electoral Law into line with the BiH Constitution. 64 The third thing, when we refer to the Washington Agreement that defined the special status for the City of Mostar, let us not forget that it is parallel to that defined and special status for the town of Travnik. Travnik still operates as one of the municipalities in BiH, without any special structure. I mean, if we're going to, uh, be principled at least to honor that, if the Washington Treaty for Mostar is in force, so should Travnik. So, and I think that the same standards should be established, the same criteria for all citizens, for all local communities in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22223	Thank you. The first deputy, a replica of distinguished counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22224	Just for a little while, Mr. Lozančić, and I won't answer again. So, when it comes to Travnik, Travnik is not part of the Washington and Dayton arrangements. Travnik is part of, therefore, Travnik is part of the arrangement in the Federation of BiH Parliament and constitutional amendment. So we were witnesses and you and I were there when it was and everybody knew it. And here, therefore, is no problem. Here the problem is that the muscles are trying, by agreement, against some, not by consensus of all, to change the solution. Two ways is how the elemental provisions, constitutional provisions in BiH can be changed, if we want to have a normal state, so a stable state and slowly build the country in peace. It is a consensus, therefore, or a procedure which, by chance, is not the two-thirds majority prescribed here in the House of Representatives or decisions of the High Representative, which are also legal and legitimate decisions. Nothing different from Washington, nor from the Federation Constitution so far in BiH has changed except this attempt to do otherwise. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22225	Thank you. First Deputy Persistant, colleague Božo Ljubić's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, although today's agenda was supposed to primarily concern itself, the Constitutional Commission reports, it's obvious that all of us, to put it this way, have entered the scale of things, so of course I'm not going to act differently either. When we talk about Vošington and Dejton and when we call on him, he should be consistent and principled, and that's what my colleague Lozančić was talking about, I won't repeat it, so it's not true, that nothing has changed except this, but it has changed a lot thanks to the imposed amendments of High Representative Petrić, where the conditions for the loss of Hrvat constitutionality in the Federation were actually created, so what happened 3.5 years ago, and four years after the general elections, that, I say, the Bosniak majority of the parliamentary majority of the two parties, formed power without the legitimate 65 representatives of the Croatian people. Therefore, it is not true that nothing has changed, it has been changed even in a way of political violence. What I want to say and now I will focus on this report and on discussions and decisions of the Constitutional Commission. Džaferović, as an experienced lawyer and former judge, experienced parliamentarian must have been skilled in the legal profession, so if I have to say so, and legal acrobatics, then, in order to say so, to deny the constitutional basis, you would place an emphasis on me, correct me if I am wrong, that this law is in accordance with the Constitution, and it is not in line with the constitutional justice system in BiH. Which is, in fact, in full conflict with logic. I'm asking everyone here, especially the lawyers, can we go against logic? I don't think so. If we take logic as a science of right thinking, so if we ignore logic, then it's actually not the right idea. Why? By that logic, in fact, any new law or any amendments to the law existing would be in conflict with the existing legal system because we are changing it. So the second question is, how come the same law is established for one House and the other is not? So that's all the questions. But I want you to go back to the metrics and, I say, the lack or deficit of your reasoning. Namely, you are referring to the Federation Constitution, Washington, you are calling for the Statute of the City of Mostar, and I am calling for a Constitutional Court Decision and I will now quote a few articles. Says – Article 19(4), paragraph 2. BiH Election Law "The Official Messenger" both that and Article 17(1). The Statute of the City of Mostar, "The official messenger of the City of Mostar", is the number of which, in the section in which it reads - three councilors are elected in each city area, are not in accordance with Article 25. The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, which is an integral part of this Constitution. Which means, in fact, in the preamble to the Constitution of BiH, the International Conventions are above the Statute and above the Constitution as well. So there's the point. Furthermore, the provisions of Articles 19.2. paragraphs 1 and 3 and Articles 19.4 to 8. Election law of BiH and Article 17(1). The Statute of the City of Mostar, the "Official Messenger", and that in every city area, I now quote - are elected by three council members, are not in accordance with Article 2.4. The BiH Constitution, therefore, is not the Federation, the Constitution of BiH regarding Article 25. The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. So, here is absolutely a waste of calling on both the Statute of Mostar and the Constitution of the Federation and its Constitution of BiH, on the basis of which the Election Law has been passed and which we are treating here today. And the point is that the southeastern constituency of the southeastern Mostar city area elects three members in the City Council as well as the Southwest Mostar. But what's the difference? Southwest Mostar has four times the population, which means the vote of citizens in the southeast part of Mostar, or area, where 99% of Bošnjak are worth four times more than the vote of citizens in the southwestern part of Mostar, where over 90% of Hrvat are also. That's the point. But I'm worried that it doesn't concern you. So, you're willing to hold on to such a situation, and the fact that Mostar doesn't have functional authority, that the citizens of Mostar suffer daily because of it, and it takes all of us here to care equally. And if, I say, we can look unilaterally at things or partyly observe things, so perhaps, in fact, the HDZ of BiH would be most suited... because they have Mayor Mostar for an indefinite period of time. Therefore, I think that here we should focus on the essence, that this is about the BiH Election Law, that the Constitutional Court's ruling on the BiH Election Law, is about the International Civil Rights Pact and Freedoms and the BiH Constitution, and that we use it as an argument rather than the Statute of a city, etc. And now we're not talking about the fact that the City of Mostar is unique, that nothing similar applies in any other city in BiH, and as a counter 66 argument to those who object, here's to say, to us Hrvat that we are in favour of Mostar as a single city as a whole, where one citizen-one vote would be decided in principle, that it is therefore inconsistencies, so to speak, with our efforts to protect the national interest at the level of entities and states, in fact, these things cannot be mixed, because local administration and self-government have one rules that apply and should be valid in the same way, for all parts of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22227	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's the Šefik said the point, I'm just going to do a few more things and maybe I'll add something and analyze what my predecessors were talking about, especially Mr. Ljubić. So we have what is a fundamental problem in this Electoral Law is that it is contrary to the Statute of the City of Mostar, the Constitution of the Canton of Herzegova-Neretva, the Constitution of the Federation and the state of BiH. And what we don't need to deceive the public, or we need to tell the truth, what the Constitutional Court essentially said, should be repeated once more. And exactly what Mr Ljubić was talking about, in the last part of his presentation, about the discrepancies of the number of council members coming from certain constituencies, concerning the number of voters living in the constituency. I only wish Mr. Ljubić had set another example. And this example is that in the west, where the Croatian majority population also lives, there are about 7,000 inhabitants, and in Old Town there are more than 20,000 inhabitants. So this story of unification, when it comes to the southwest and Stari Grad, that is, the west and this area that Mr Ljubić was talking about, was offered in the negotiations SDA and HDZ had in Mostar City. But it was only based on this first story. But the essential thing is, that the Constitutional Court, and I would ask fellow MPs to pay attention, is not talking about the abolition of the electoral areas that grew up by amending the Statute of the City of Mostar, by Mr. Eždaun in 2004 from the city municipalities. And city municipalities are defined by the Washington, or Dayton Agreement, where Mostar is said to be a unique city that makes up six city municipalities. And there was no need for intervention of either the Constitutional Court or Mr. Eždaun, when we got... The statutes and when we got the solution in Mostar City, which went forward. And you know what happens when it happens, or you'll remember what happened, what the alarm was. It's just that the war didn't break out in Mostar City, when the Transition Statute was passed, which was happening, and the dead people were at that moment. It wasn't the Bošnjak or some minority, as they were mentioned here. So in Mostar, both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat and others live, these are constitutional, these are not etc. But what is essential and perhaps well mentioned here and in 2004, Mr. Eždaun did what he did, by amending the existing Statute. But then the Constitutional Court intervened on something that wasn't domestic legislation. And the Constitutional Court was to be declared incompetent on this matter, amendments to the Statute of the City of Mostar. This could have, that intervention might have been in that section to direct the Peace Implementation Council or someone else from the international factor, but since this was not the story of domestic legislation, the Constitutional Court certainly shouldn't have intervened, but here it intervened. And it's no problem to get into the story of 67 coordinating the number of councilors from certain areas, but it's a fundamental problem and it won't be allowed to change the currently defined election areas. And that's the fundamental problem that we've been talking about, on many occasions here. And that's why one of these interventions to this election law, the way it's done, is not good. I think you all have Election Law here, you'll see the paper, but here's the original text at the end, after the argument, for the adoption of such a legal solution and you'll find in Article 19.2. point 3 of the city's district election unit within the meaning of Article 1 of this article are former city municipalities defined by Articles 7 and 15. The Statute of Mostar City. So that's what's left, the Constitutional Court didn't intervene on this. And that's the point and it's a hoax here from all those who say
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22229	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22230	They say this law is a alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision. And I'd like to go that way... for a few seconds. So that's where I'd ask my fellow MPs to pay attention and make sure that voting for this negative opinion is essentially on the side of justice, because these urban areas, so they don't require elimination, through the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22231	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22232	Well, it's a replica to a respected colleague, Sokolović, who says this law is not in line with the Statute of the City of Mostar. The legal system.....and these solutions to the City of Motar know completely different principles. Our legal system implies that the statutes of the local communities must comply with the law, not laws in accordance with the Statute, these are principles in the BiH legal system. We may be establishing new ones, but to know about the future. It means that we will also harmonize some laws with the statutes of some other local communities, if that's the principle. The second principle in the BiH legal system, units of local administration and self-government, is one electoral unit. That goes for 99.9% of local administration units, that's the system I guess this is the exception. We are trying to bring this into line with the BiH legal system. Okay, if we don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22233	Thank you. Dear counterpart Dragan Vrankić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22234	Thank you very much. 68 There's almost nothing left for me, but I have to do it again, I have to go back to the scale of the problem, which is that once again we clearly underline that the most obvious example of the unfair system is an example of Mostar. It is the only city, a bigger city where Hrvat live in the majority. The High Representative in 2004 imposes a special statute of the City of Mostar, so it is not the Constitution but the High Representative. I don't think it should be mentioned that Mostar has 35 councilors, that no one can have most, and that in one space there must be four times more votes for one term than in another space. Isn't that an unfair system? I don't think he can be more unjust. And that only applies to Mostar no other city. We're wondering if it needs to be changed or if it doesn't have to be changed. The Constitutional Court has declared part of that part of the Statute invalid and we are now trying again to find some special status we have not kept, we have not been put back and defined and that it is a definitive inconsistency and subordination as it is happening, here in Mostar for so many years. If injustice has brought someone good, then I'm having an affair. It is true that counterpart Salko said that both Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak live in Mostar, you can do whatever you want. And there are few cities that can point that out, and here I would say and be proud of it. However, if no constituent people should have authority in Mostar, why does the OHR not implement such a decision in all cities, because it has a mandate from the international community? Why are they only spending it in Mostar? In all other cities, it is allowed to respect the civic majority of the electoral will, but not that. Or maybe they don't believe that there is trust among the citizens of Mostar, so there is something special to be made and there is a special statute that will enable or maybe there are no Hrvat in those other cities and there is no problem. I have to tell you that, but no news you all know that there are at least five of the largest cities in BiH where at least 40% of the population, here I'm going to be polite and say, moved in the war, somewhere else has gone. And there's no need for a special statute. But there are no Hrvat at all, so I guess we don't need a special Statute. It is often said that the citizens of Mostar support the Special Statute, that OHR has support. OHR has no support from 60% of citizens for what he did and it's a real picture in Mostar and their mood towards it. Untrust can't be built on anything, it's injustice that destroys a complete system, and institutional injustice creates new injustices, creates new black holes that don't lead us anywhere. I think this is an opportunity to send a message that we want to build a fair and equal BiH for all three of its peoples. The example of Mostar, in which Hrvat live and where most of them are, and in this way try to put themselves under control, and puts it under control thanks to the dejtonski and Washington Agreement, where it is given through the state and entity levels for two of the largest or most numerous or two of the peoples, so that they can decide and challenge that other people to ensure what they stand for, is manifested right now, because this is what we do not give you, we will not do the city according to all other cities and the total local administration that rules 90% of the world. I don't think that's good, I think we need to be aware that we need to turn the page forward, restore trust, give a hand, it's for you a little bit and for us a big signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22235	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22236	A long time ago, the Herzegovic-Neretva canton was attached to Chitluk 100% Croatian inhabited space to strengthen the domination of Croatian people in the Herzegovic-Neretva canton, taxing. 10 years ago, OHR and Petrić decided to end the municipal borders between Zavidovic, Maglaj and Žepč to join the local communities with the Croatian population and there they became municipalities with the majority Croatian population. The Bošnjak came back and realized they were a minority. That's what Mostar wants to do, but why? It says majority Croatian. Mostar neither was nor will ever be the majority Croatian. Currently in this situation, more than 20,000 Bošnjak have been expelled and killed in which Hrvat from Central Bosnia moved. We have a situation in which there are few majority Croatians. Is it a product of war or is it a product of Bošnjak desire to leave Mostar? That's why Vašington stopped the war, which is why Mostar is a special status, which is why Mostar is in Dayton, and that's why Mostar can't be changed like this. Who doesn't get it then didn't clear up with that '93 period. A year. So, Mostar, we have to build on trust in a different way, not muscle. If we're going to chase him to the muscles then there's more of those who are willing to do it on the muscles. So I ask you to understand the state of Mostar, the state of Bošnjak, its Dayton character, and therefore in this way the reaction of us Bošnjak coming from below. So, I repeat once again, the Constitutional Court's decision has not abolished the election areas. Pedi Eždaun when he abolished in 2004
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22237	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22238	The municipalities, they've stopped their lives on the east side of Mostar. This is the attitude of those who rule, who have money in their hands in relation to others, which are Hrvat in this case. And we won't dominate want equality, so we'll fight. And I would ask you to understand what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22239	Thank you. I'm warning everyone that we're going back to the agenda, we're talking about negative opinions, we're not discussing historical matters. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22240	Thank you. The colleagues of both HDZ and the U.S.A. mentioned the role of the OHR both part and part of it, or completely negatively talked about it, so I just need to correct the wrong quote and say a few sentences. Two years ago, when the OHR began the process of negotiating all Federation parties agreed on some basic principles, including that Mostar would be a single city, that it would have certain control below the city level, or city areas. After that, 70 6 parties agreed with OHR on a framework document that would help unite the city and become, that there are areas that would cross Neretva and that would be multiethnic. Unfortunately, the SDA and HDZ did not want to negotiate on the basis of the document, and it has been said several times, precisely from the OHR where I read this quote, that these two parties therefore refuse to speak sincerely about Mostar, the unique Mostar. The HDZ seeks to adopt its plan without any Bosniak votes, while the SDA does not want to engage in serious negotiations. Also, this time not from OHR, but from the mouth of the top authorities of the international community, it is said that the SDA and HDZ correspond to Mostar without a choice and that 4 political parties have shown flexibility to reach an agreement, but unfortunately HDZ and the U.S.A. remain fixed in their positions and the result is six years without local elections. So this is all a quote. What I want to say, as my comment, is that OHR has not forbidden anyone else to change the Statute of the City. But these two parties, so SDA and HDZ, they didn't want to do it because it doesn't suit them equally, it doesn't suit them at the moment, it doesn't suit them in front of the elections and not in each other, that this story is done in this way, knowing in advance that she's doomed and that nothing in Mostar is going to change. So far, they've had their hands crossed, if this time they're going to get votes on this one, then they need to be congratulated and found out it's not really up to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22241	Dear counterpart Dragan Vrankić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22242	The replica of fellow Sokolović. I'm sorry that fellow sokolov don't look at the same eyes Mostar, Konjic, Sarajevo, Bugojno, then he'd think a little differently. Mostar is a lot of multiethnic city, more multiethnic than any of these three cities mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22243	Thank you. Mato Franjičević, an esteemed colleague, has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22244	Here I will use this time to discuss very briefly replicating my colleague Sokolović, it may have taken colleagues Magazinović, but here's to shorten all this because seven hours to arrive. So, you Sokolović be a Democrats colleague and say we won't dominate, we want equality in Mostar, because that also implies a thesis that we want to dominate and we don't want equality in Sarajevo, in Zenica, in Konjica, where still, everywhere, less everywhere. I mean, it's about perfectly dangerous thesis that I can't hold water. Now let's cut to the chase. We are essentially discussing a negative opinion that is not, we are discussing an opinion that is not a positive opinion when it comes to the constitutional basis for this Law. We also heard arguments from some colleagues from the Constitutional Commission who felt that this Law was not in line with the Constitution and the legal system. And these arguments consist of an opportunity to base the thesis that Mostar is part of a package called the Washington Agreement and that it must therefore be treated in a different way than any other environment. I'd like 71 to remind all of us that this so-called. A package called Vošington, long unpacked. And I want to believe that we all understand that from some package, with or without quotes, what we can do is we can't take out what's right for someone at some point and ignore what's not right at the given time, because then it's a completely wrong approach, and that way it's not a solution, it's creating a problem. And we're here, not to multiply the problem, I guess, but to look for solutions. And those solutions, again on the trail of this so-called. a negative opinion that is not, this approach must be principled. The refusal of this law remains in fact in the sphere of unconstitution, because the Constitutional Court has ruled that existing solutions, quoted here, are unconstitutional, are discriminatory and are not in line with the BiH Constitution. Bringing the matter down to the level that the Statute is in charge of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the laws it adopts and amends, is absurd. I hope we all understand that. When it comes to principles, we talk about the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, we do not fully enter the metrics. When it comes to the fact that the Constitutional Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed Law, we meet with a very interesting thesis. And on the trail of what Sokolović was fantastically shaped about, we do not want to dominate equality. The sequel is, I already said, we want domination and we don't want equality everywhere except in Mostar. It is a principle that is not a democratic principle, and the the thesis that, for my people, this under quotes, requires greater rights than for other peoples or other peoples, is a very interesting thesis and is not from the arsenal of democratic thesis. For those of us who are not facade anti-fascists but are true, it is very clear that this is very close to certain fascist thesis.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22245	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22246	I'm sorry it's taken a while to discuss these interesting points again, but I'm glad it's not for 3 minutes but for 5 minutes. I call on you, therefore, to reject the negative opinion of the Constitutional Court, because it simply does not hold water when it comes to the Constitution and the legal system, nor when it comes to the fundamental principles of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22247	If we keep this up, it'll be three minutes. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22248	I'd ask my colleagues not to chase pears and apples. So Mostar has nothing to do with the Horseman, but Konjic has something to do with Stoc, and who they still mentioned by Busovača has something to do with Čapljin. So in Capljina and Stoc, if we're going to create a similar situation as in Horseman, it's at your disposal, but first you have to reach the level that we've reached. So, in Capljina and Stoc, the Bošnjak cannot be hired for garbage and so on. But Mostar is something else, and I'd ask you not to go after that thing. Mostar came into existence, the current structure of Mostar's population, and I told you on the basis of which it was formed, based on genocide that was conducted down 72, people moving and moving people, and don't mix it with pears and apples. And Mr. Magazinović, if SDP had ever done anything constructive and clever in Mostar, you would have had the opportunity to sit down with HDZ and the SDA to discuss it. If we talked about anything, we suggested solutions, we argued, we found no solutions, we were close to a solution but we were doing something, and you're just on the side like other policies that exist down there were pouring a little oil on fire and you were never a factor that could help solve the problem in Mostar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22249	Replica's first deputy chairman, counterpart Božo Ljubić. Here you go. We just have a little bit of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22250	A kolega Sokolović, to say that there was genocide in Mostar and Mostar is the most multiethnic city in BiH, in a city where during the war, during the biggest clashes between the BiH Army and the HVO territory under the control of HVO food of at least 10,000 Bošjak and others there, is, I can't use the word that deserves your qualification and so I will refrain from it. But what I'm going to say here, we're not going to dominate around, we want equality. Great. Now let's make a deal. There is, I see it seems to me that there are two vice presidents of the SDA, let's quickly approach the amendment of the electoral law and the electoral law when, no, not the electoral law of the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22251	Three of us have vice presidents.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22252	Three, okay, even better. So, when the Federation Constitution says that delegates in the House of Peoples of the Federation are elected proportionally to the number of residents in the counties, and then things will be resolved in detail by election law, then the Electoral Law, as we once again know it, defined that Gorazde gives one Hrvat delegate Hrvat the Federation House of Peoples where they live, let no one offend 36 persons of Croatian nationality, as well as Posavina where about 45,000 Hrvat live. So let's quickly change this Electoral Law and prevent anyone from manipulating the election results and forming executive power in the Federation based on the fact that the Countys with the Bosniak majority under this Electoral Law provide more Croatian delegates to the Croatian Club of the House of Nations than the County with the Croatian majority. Let's change that and let's say, on the side of the Federation partners, the first sign of what Salko Sokolović said, we don't want equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22253	My colleagues, have we not gone far, negative opinion of the law. Dear colleague Mladen Lijanović, replica. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22254	My replica refers to HDZ and U.S.A.'s hypocritical policy in Mostar City. To remind you, the last local elections in Mostar were held in 2008. The Bolitak gets seven councilmen. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you, I let you talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22256	You didn't get them.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22257	Wait a minute, no throwing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22258	The Electoral Commission confirms 7 council members of Bolitka in Mostar City. So they were attacked by HDZ and U.S.A. policy, I have even one more witness here, that everyone had to leave Bolitak, everyone had to leave Bolitak. _________(?) What improvement? The People's Party is working to improve, abbreviations Bolitak, under politics and policy and today in Mostar government and does not want to call elections either. HDZ and SDA policies can change the statutes, they can make elections in Mostar, but they don't want to. Gentlemen, it's up to you, to your leaders, so I'd say the same. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22261	Thank you. Replica, a fellow respected Saša Magazinović. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22262	An esteemed colleague of the Sokolovic Replic. So it's true that they made a deal, but they made a deal so they didn't agree. And it is true that they proposed, they suggested that the city be divided into Bosniak and Croatian sections, that city election units be made by standing on the table of the digitron and counting on the settlement in which the people live and then creating the Apardheid electoral models. It's true that you suggested it, you suggested that Mostar look like an arrangement as to how you arranged the communal economy, two companies, one on each other's shore. In one Hrvat and in the Management Board only Hrvat, in the other Bošnjak and in the Governing Board only Bošnjak. So it's a vision of Mostar that these two parties have. And the story of Mostar's multiethnicity, which you believe in, falls into the water when you look at the position of Srbin and others in this city and everyone else who doesn't have a certificate from the HDZ Centre and the SDA Office in this city. And as for what my colleague Ljubić has suggested, here I am telling you, open up that story about redefinition of election units in the Federation but completely, so that we meet that obligation that we finally search the election units for the Federal Parliament and adapt them to the number of inhabitants, which is a commitment we never met. You have SDP and on that story, that it's our legal obligation to do, we don't need to negotiate here.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22263	Thank you. Šefik Džaferović's esteemed colleague, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22264	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have signed up to say only a few sentences or words at Mr. Božo Ljubić's discussion, but here is Mr. Magazinović, who has put me in a position to tell him only one sentence. Mr. Magazinović, what are the official views of the SDA and what does the SDA do, you allow us who run this party to talk, and you deal with your political party, its position and its relations with Mostar. More birds on the border know, and it is written, and in all documents I say it every day, the SDA advocates the unique City of Mostar, a unique City Mostar with several units of local self-government, with several units of local self-government and with the rotation of mayors every 4 years when it comes to belonging to constituent peoples and others in Mostar City. This is the official position of the SDA and I ask you to compare your discussions to that official position of the SDA. Mr. Ljubić, I've been listening to your discussion, and so I'm the man who wants to talk, so these things. Everywhere it is, BiH is a state that is well-conceived and must be set up on a civil principle, on a combination of actually civil and ethnic principles. And everywhere where ethnically it enters into civility, you will have me as an opponent, but you will also have me as an associate everywhere where ethnic affirmation should be achieved, so combined with civil because of BiH's character as a multiethnic state. And I think that's our advantage. But that's why there has to be an honest relationship, so there must be honest signs of wanting it. I say now, let's establish power throughout BiH at all levels according to the '91 census. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22265	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22266	before the violence against the ethnic structure in BiH was committed. Here's the call. Well, we can't, let's go to the Federation of BiH, so no problem, I'm publicly saying it here at Parliament's pay phone. This applies equally to Sarajevo and Zenica, but also to Mostar and Stolac and Capljin and Livno and Tuzlo and so on. So that's what I'm talking about. As far as I'm concerned, I apologize to the chairman just let me have this one more sentence, a national representation, so we need to talk about all these things, only I want to see from you an honest relationship, because you can't tell Mr. Ljubić that you have an honest relationship and deny that in the SDP, when power was formed in the Federation of BiH, there are no people who plead as Hrvat or not admit that people are Hrvat. So, it's not an honest relationship and the negotiations fell in March 2011 for the federal government because you've been so tight,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22267	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22268	You did not want to accept any deputy minister of Hrvat from the SDP in the Federal Government. Well, it can't be, it can't be. You cannot share people with political and ethnic Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin and so on. A man pleads who he is and he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22269	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22270	That's the way the Constitution knows him. Thank you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22271	Well, you don't have to apologize to me, I'm just trying to bring the debate and bring it back, first into the time frames, because we're going to come into the teapot, and second to the business, to get back to the agenda, it's called negative opinion. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić has it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22272	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22273	Do you have another replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22274	Yes, there is. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22275	There is. I apologize to my colleague Jovičić, since he was called...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22276	I didn't expect my colleague from the College to be this restrictive to me, or any other replica, but he's probably confused. Mr. Džaferović, I have never denied Croatianism to anyone from the SDP, and not even Željko Komšić the right to plead with Hrvat. But we have always felt that representatives of Hrvat should be at the seats of the Federal Government, in the Council of Ministers for Hrvat, so representatives who have the political legitimacy of Hrvat. And everyone knows from whom they were elected by the majority of votes and Mr Komšić as a member of the presidency and Hrvat in the SDP. So, we can handle the debate now, but it's not true that the OHR negotiations fell because we weren't ready for one deputy, it's not true. We were prepared, to tell you the truth now, and I took part in these talks, the deputy in the Council of Ministers of the Hrvat SDP. We were ready even in one place of five, we weren't prepared for one minister of 3 at the Council of Ministers. Why? Because of the decision-making of the Council of Ministers. That's true, don't say what's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22277	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, this session looks like a session of the Federal Parliament, but since there are Srbin in this House, and there are no Serbs there or at the level of statistical error as in Mostar, now my colleague Vrankić, I don't even know if it's a replica, but the clarification. Mr. Vrankić, you say the two most numerous nations decide everything. I would agree with you here and I am sorry that the Hrvat are the fewest and that I cannot get any expression in the Federation. But however we Srbin choose, I say this on my own behalf, don't blame us, count the number of votes and you can't get a number in the Federation that any of your proposals and decisions will be accepted. I'm just saying this for the sake of a stenogram, I'm saying this for the position of me as an individual, an MP, however I choose, that my voice will do you no good, whether I refuse a negative opinion, whether I support it, nothing he will. I'm not looking for an alibi, but you can't blame the Srbin for not passing your proposal. You cannot provide a sufficient majority in the Federation and that is the essence of all the problems of your position as a people in the Federation, to be clear. And I think this is quite acceptable and a clear explanation of why your position in the Federation is like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22279	colleague Adnan Bašić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Listen to all this, believe me, I'm wondering if this point should have been on the agenda at all today. You know very well what Mostar is, don't one of you who sits here today EPP to spill your pre-political election here. We know exactly who takes a 77 position and why that position is what it is. I'm not gonna talk this way. Someone broke the bridges on Neretva and they're still down, I don't mean what other people think, because it's easy to build, and when it collapses again, it's not a problem. Bridges are never built on one shore. To build a bridge across the river, it takes two shores and starts each bridge from each coast and connects in the middle. You haven't started one yet, and that's why we're having this debate. Forget it. In Bosnia, in my Bosnia, there's an old ancient wise saying of my Bosniak people, don't be angry with this has nothing to do with nationalism, but only with humanity that says when in Bosnia it's full of water and a river you want to build a small space, when you want a big sevap and the ocean to make a kepore. My lords, on both sides of the coast of Mostar, begin each and every one of you from your shores, and you will surely be joined in the middle. I'll have to go back to Mostar first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22281	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović gives up and we have a colleague, Beriz Belkić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22282	Here is so that it doesn't turn out that the BiH Party MPs don't have their own position on this matter that we're discussing today, we will support negatively the opinion of our Constitutional Commission, by thinking that when it comes to constitutional basis, it exists from a simple fact, because there is an Electoral Law that here is proposed to change. And two or three sentences out, so to speak, theme. We have experienced the proposal of this law, the amendment and addition of the Electoral Law as one of the possible variants of the solution and we are absolutely free of dispute and we have seen and see no reason for this kind of debate. Of course, the promoters should bear in mind that there are other variants of solutions. When it comes to the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, we know our practice and flexibility, so to speak, we have on several occasions suggested that this House reach a conclusion/decision that the decisions of constitutional courts will literally apply by not spreading the experience. However, practice has shown that there have been additional efforts each time. Happy are the peoples who have MPs like this. Happy are the nations, I'm sure, our constitutive, but I'll cut them down a little bit, and I believe they'll be very happy with our performances here and they'll be sure there's someone who defends them, too. However, this is another proof that this mandate, therefore, is an election winner, a parliamentary majority, or whatever you want to call it, is a complete failure. Remember before, less everyone participated except us, so other than these two and Mr. Purić, as far as I know, everything else was in power. And you've spent a term of opportunity on this kind of story, the result of course double zero, here's what I'm saying. And what worries the most about man, you are convinced that people or peoples are satisfied, you will probably be able to definitely check it out in October this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22283	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Take two, you got one.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22284	This one will do. 78 Let me just take advantage of the fact that I have even two options to replicate, that I only underline what I think is important for the experience of this whole story. So, support for negative opinion or so on. The negative opinion of the Constitutional Court when it comes to this bill that needs to be implemented and implemented by the Constitutional Court, which, I remind you, has declared discriminatory certain provisions of the BiH Election Law Statute, means supporting the failure to hold elections in the City of Mostar and means indirect support for the fact that someone has the right to dominate anywhere in the majority without wanting to dominate it in one isolated case in this country. It's the taste of this whole debate, it's the taste of this whole story about this bill. Of course, there are variations that, in other ways and in different legal decisions, the Constitutional Court's ruling is not disputed, but this way is not at odds with the Constitution, nor with the legal system, it is on the trail of all key international conventions adopted by both BiH and which are an integral part of its constitutional order. One of them was quoted by the Constitutional Court and was the reason for the Constitutional Court's negative opinion when it comes to certain elements of the Election Law and the Statute of the City of Mostar. So, I call on you once again not to accept the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, so that this law will get a chance to realize, so Mostar has a chance to have a normal power of well-being and in favour of all citizens living in it no matter what nationality they are and to finally establish the same standards in this country, when it comes to this level of government, therefore local administration and self-government, so that no one will dominate somewhere and someone else is subordinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22285	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22286	I'm sorry. I must say that the citizens of Mostar must be at risk, but domination, tell me where is not the domination where most of them are? Is there a city, is there a region where there is no one in dominant over the majority of those who are in the minority? It's represented in all of BiH, whether we're blind or not to see it. It's unclear. Mostar's citizens are at risk, it's without further ado. Progress must be seen and we must give a hand of reconciliation. But the citizens of Mostar provide an arm of reconciliation, and do politicians provide it? In 2013, talks with OHR were concluded, why is this bill now in 2014 before the elections? For a year and a half, we have been waiting for this and a year and a half of time enough for the parliamentary majority to propose changes, changes and agreements. I must say that, even then, HDZ-1990, the then president, Mr Ljubić, had a different attitude. There have also been discussions on other proposals, but at no time has there been any need for the talks to be revoted or anything in the domination of other parties and HSPs and others, from the Welfare Party, other proposals that could find support, but they did not want to go to the heart to be nothing against HDZ. We wanted it to be completely together brought something, given hand in the interest of every citizen inside Mostar. Mostar's citizens are hostages of politics, and we need to make that clear. They are not a reflection of more citizens within Mostar than a reflection of political hostages. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22287	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22288	Let us not say that the domination and desire for domination, we have shown 5-6 parties a good will to talk and come to a solution, and again I am saying the domination is in every area of the majority of the minority in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22289	Thank you. Mato Franjičević. I guess I let you guys talk a little bit more last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22290	Then I'll do it. You reminded me that I had two lines, I thought I had one, and that's why I
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22291	Where I would forbid your right to use another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22292	Obviously, just so he doesn't stay in the air, indeed, fellow Đugum is absolutely management, the domination is really everywhere where most people exist and there are minorities, that's how it is when it comes to units of local administration and self-government. When it comes to these other levels, it shouldn't be, and there is, as we can see in the Federation, in the RS, at the state level. We are not even in a position here to participate equally in the decision-making process, but it is a different story and I would not like to say this. We need to define ourselves for one principle, whether it's the principle of avoiding or fighting domination, talking about the level of local administration and self-government, everywhere. If that's what I'm the first to do, of course we consistently apply it to all units of local administration and self-government. But it's unacceptable and democracy's side that this principle is isolated on only one case, and that everywhere in all other cases is lurking, which is what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22293	Is there anyone else who'd like to hear from you? Do you have a colleague, Lozančić? You have a wish, but you're not right, are you? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm in no hurry. Dear colleagues, I'm closing the debate. 80 We move to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on non-working days during religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mato Franjičević, Law No: 01-02-1-21/14, from 08.05.2014, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22296	I have left little, I think, space enough that those colleagues who have thought that this Law is not in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, to explain why they think that such defined solutions in this Law are not in accordance with the Constitution or with the legal system. I, I'm thinking it's really a personal unsuspecting claim. In fact, there are several reasons to say that this Law is in full compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, because it ensures equal rights and prevents discrimination against the people of BiH, who are believers, who are members of any religious community. This law guarantees them that they will have minimum equal rights, regardless of which part of BiH they live in and whether they are where they live in the majority or in the minority. This Law eventually or eventually implements the provisions of international agreements it has adopted, signed and ratified BiH and they are due, and this law is necessary for the adoption of these provisions. I remind her once, that the international agreements ratified by BiH above domestic legislation and that it is impossible to declare it unconstitutional and something that is not in line with the legal system. So here in action are not arguments that would justify this opinion, but in action is what one of my colleagues is, I don't remember exactly which, I called the argument of force. The number of hands makes everything possible. Let me tell you, as a Hrvat, as a Roman Catholic, I'm not particularly interested in getting a law that we need for a number of reasons and to avoid discrimination and to meet our international commitments. But I think that it would be good for this country, that this would lead to and be a step towards further integration in this country and, ultimately, to achieve that in our legal system we have one degree more justice, and less inequality, potential or real discrimination, which either exists or can exist. These international agreements also, as the argument was heard at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, require that this regulation of the days of the religious holidays be contained in a special law, not in a package, as some colleagues wanted to present. Therefore, one precise article in these international contracts speaks of the need to pass a special law. 81 Here are all the reasons that I think it was completely rash and based on some perhaps more ideological connotations, this opinion of a number of members of the Constitutional Commission, who have found that this Law and its principles are not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22297	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22298	Here, I'd like to say that after all day here, here are some laws that have been proposed by the HDZ, I'd like to say something because I think we're being tortured at this point in time. When someone wants to propose a law that they intend to pass, especially if they want the law to pass in the very light of choice, then at least they find so much to match that with the people they think they might get support, talk about the subject, here I was thinking this, would you support something like that. First, you went out with a big, Mr. Lozančić first, and then here we are still dealing with these laws and it was not seen that, there is a difference among them in priority all were equally significant to you. We've exhausted ourselves on perhaps insignificant laws, so when the one in question came, just before we talked about the law, the amendments to the Electoral Law, then we lost all our time, proving to each other what neither can prove, nor can these others accept it. I want to see what the point is. Why are we doing this? That we used all our strength to solve the City of Mostar issue, because it's really unfair that the City of Mostar has no elections again and it can't be justified by anything, but that's the same reason we don't have a solution for Sejdiu-Sejdić-Finci. We can't agree on anything in this country. And making laws that we can't agree on before the election itself is not a good idea. Especially to make, here is the Law of Religious Holidays. So remember, we had a proposal from the Council of Ministers who came to the Religious Holidays Act. There was no reason for that law to collapse, so we knocked it down. So we said we won't...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22299	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22300	Here I come, we want the law, so it's the other ones, so we didn't make it either. It says here that it is consistent with the most important religious communities. Where's the proof of that? I can believe it and I don't have to. So, please, we're tired of laws that can't get passable, if I don't know who's voting. There are also those parties that will never vote for it. That's why I think we're really doing our best.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22301	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džarerović, replica. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22302	In a way, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have been appointed whether, as one of those on the Constitutional Legal Commission, he had an opposition to the constitutional basis and the principles of this Law. And let me only say two sentences through the replica of Mr. Mata Franjičević. The first one concerns the constitutional basis. The Lord used the word - nebulous, or nebulose, unbulous opinion. So I think Mr. Franjičević, that there is a nebulous claim in the light of this Law that you are referring to something that is no longer there, so on Herceg Bosnia and the application of the regulations, as you say, in the Federation section where it used to be as stated there HR HB in the light of your Law. So it's really nebulous and that's why it's not supported, when it comes to constitutional basis. And when principles, people, are, therefore, BiH is a state that needs the Law on Holidays to address this issue, the national holidays, in which this issue will be resolved. To solve only this, by this law without national holidays, is something that is unacceptable. And that calls into question the continuity of the rules which, the Dayton principle that we respect in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22303	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22304	My kolegica Majkić is absolutely right when he says that the laws that MPs propose, and especially this sensitive, are wrong to suggest, and that no one knows about them and just put them on the table. Usually such laws have a predetermined destiny not to be adopted. Or, in advance, in this way, we let everyone in the Parliamentary Assembly know that it is a pre-election law and that it is not at all about his fate in terms of voting, but it is important to talk a little about this subject, that possibly the promoter is promoted in this way. We have a good example, we had it in the last session, the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is the Law that fell in its first attempt, and then a step was made by Mr. Deputy Minister Čavar and was discussed with all those who showed interest in the Law. He was agreed and adopted unanimously here and at the House of Peoples. I think it's a good example and a good method of working and ultimately, the way important laws should be adopted. This Law has already been proposed by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the only difference between this Law and those other signatories, is that in the light of this Law it is explicitly mentioned that in one part of BiH's territory, or the Federation of BiH, it is therefore still in force in the Law of the Republic of Croatia, which treats this area. So, and that's another indicator, that actually the Proposer doesn't care at all to pass this Law, but to talk a little bit about it and to show his patriotism at a certain locality. And finally, 83
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22305	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22306	Here's the chairman. I'm finishing up. Finally, I don't know how many times it's been put forward in this country, that it's not a problem to adopt the Law on Holidays, which will be part of a religious holiday, but to insist that the BiH state has a Law on Religious Holidays and there is no Law on State Feasts, unfortunately for those who propose this, it can't pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22307	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22308	Nothing, none of what distinguished colleagues Džaferović and Magazinović said was true, nothing at all. As a reason why it is considered that the Law has no constitutional basis, it states what it contains in its reasoning, I quote my colleague Džaferović – something he does not have. But dear colleague Džaferović,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22309	I'd ask the MPs not to pollute with the debater from the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22310	The provocation is written in the BiH Constitution. I read that Constitution provision in the last session. If there's a need, I'll be very happy to read it again. This is Annex II to the Constitution, its Article 2. Read carefully, as an experienced lawyer, that provision and you will see that in BiH until the normal parliamentary procedure changes this with appropriate legal solutions, in force those legal solutions that were found at the time of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That's right, it's written in the BiH Constitution, it's Annex II to the BiH Constitution and its Article 2. And I understand that the mention of the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia may not suit you. But you can't solve that problem with an Nov, so you stick your head in the sand. You have to accept that fact because it stands. The BiH Constitution is here, open it, find Annex II, read what it says. The matter can be resolved by a colleague, Magazinović, which is an additional reason to adopt this law, and is not an additional reason not to adopt it. Because by adopting this law, it stops what I've been invited to explain, it's a fact of the state of things.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22311	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22312	And when it comes to, just for a very short time, when it comes to a package about the need to adopt a national and religious holiday in the package. We all know it's an illusion. We will not define the national holidays until we define the essential character of this country, until we reach a consensus on what kind of BiH we need. And we all know how far we are from it. 84 And another reason, in particular, to adopt the Unworked Days Act at the time of religious holidays, I have already said, lies in the fact that it is an international commitment, which strictly states that it is necessary to pass a special law in this area. So there's really nothing exactly about what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22313	The word has a vice-president, Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22314	So the replica is this one, but I'll be hoping shorter than the other colleagues. So, I, unlike my colleague Franjičević, will quote Annex II Annex IV, which bears the term Transitional Provision, point 2. The continuity of the legal rules, so I read – All laws, regulations and judicial procedures in force, in BiH's territory at the moment the Constitution takes effect, will remain in force, to the extent that it does not comply with the Constitution, while the BiH government's competent authority determines otherwise. Now of course we can, what is the government's body, I mean, it's clear to me that these are parliaments that need to pass other laws. If it were such colleagues, I will remind you that until 2002, until the Law on Construction in the Federation was in force, on the part of the territory of the Federation which covered the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia and that, uh, all the regulations and permits were issued under this Law. When the Law was passed in the Federation, he stopped the law. And secondly, I won't say which party, but all together, let's just remember, which party suggested to this Parliament the most laws that had no chance of being accepted. I'm not gonna tell you who it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22315	So we have a continuation of the replica. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22316	I didn't think there was any need for me to get into this thing. I didn't answer Mr. Franjičević, but there is a need, Mr. Belkić, but there is a need because the matter is deliberately complicated after Mr. Ljubić. I don't really know people, what you do, do you even think when you talk about these things. Do you know what you're suggesting? You know that you basically suggest that again, so again, how are you going to solve the matter in Travnik? How are you going to solve this thing in Mostar? How are you going to solve this thing at the Knight? Where is it, will you return to those lines that were '93-94? A year? So what are you talking about? No Herzeg Bosnia, no arrangements, it's off, it's not admitted, it doesn't exist. This is the first time anyone has called on Herceg Bosnia's regulations, proposing state law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22317	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22318	Well, we're used to everything here, so we're used to these drastic thesis replacements. I think someone was referring to Herzeg Bosnia's law when he suggested Zako this. It was called here to the Constitution of BiH, I think, for the sake of truth. And I will call again, although I respect what is.... but for the sake of a stenogram let it be known, and this Law Constitutional Commission has not done in accordance with Articles 41 and 107. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The opinions it has delivered are not in line with these two articles. So much for business provisions and principles. This law doesn't need HDZ, if anyone thinks they specifically need HDZ, we don't need this law. But this law needs this country. We have anarchy in this area today. Is that what we're gonna talk about? How many days off for Christmas? Is there anyone who can tell me? Do you know how much I am? As much as I take and not just me, all of us. It's also for Bajram, it's also for Orthodox Christmas, it's for Easter. I'm talking about these holidays we all know about. Based on what regulations does it say? Someone pre-war, not true. It said that they had employed a number of working days for their religious needs, but it was not said that there was no Christmas for Easter or Easter or for Bajram. On what basis are we in this country keeping closed institutions on those holidays? Let go of me not coming to work or one of us, we're certainly not doing anything. Pay attention, we're, uh, complaining that we're going beyond the law. So we're stuck once a month, once a month, and it's hard, so let's get tired here. I'd like someone else to propose laws. And I'd like to, I'm ashamed to hear that in three or four months, we only adopt two laws, I'm ashamed. I don't know, let everyone carry their shame, but I'm ashamed. It means we're sitting here in this house and adopting two laws in three months. That's our effect, spectacular. And then we won't, uh, and the laws that here bring, that aren't harmful to anyone. So they're just solving one part of the anarchy that exists in this country and they're fulfilling one part of the country's international obligations. And now we're, all of a sudden, looking for an argument, where it's gone. And then we complain when some minister, because he doesn't know, doesn't know what to call himself and then a number of his employees, wants to not work one day, because he has a religious holiday he doesn't think should work on, and the minister says no, you can't, it's not prescribed. Then we'll make a problem. And we're not going to solve any, this is a tiny problem. So for these days that are numbered in this Law, it certainly isn't about many others, but it certainly isn't about these. But it's not prescribed for just how many days. And is it a sanction, is there a sanction, if it doesn't happen by accident for three days, five days, or just one day, what's going on? People can't exercise rights means in Christmas days, where most Hrvat don't work institutions. It's not what no Niko or anyone will come to work, it's what institutions do. When Bajram is, where the Bošnjak are most, the institutions don't work. So people can't, who don't celebrate that day, can't exercise their rights. What do we do with that? So this law is just an attempt to introduce a little order. I'd like to, so as far as I'm concerned, and I'm confident my colleagues from my club, that we can agree, that we can finally pass the State Holidays Act, and I absolutely think we should bring it, because that's also the rule of charm, the same thing, and that government... With us, it informs the Federation, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And I have to say until they report for that day, to say what day is unworkable, they wouldn't know they exist... But here they come and say it's not working that day and it's not working. I don't know what it is, etc. But I'm not getting into it right now. So, and don't, you have the right to be against, you have the right to be against, I respect that, but give an argument to who in this country will be in charge, except for this Parliamentary Assembly, that at the level of the entire country 86 settles the issue of religious holidays, because we have a spillover. You can't do this like this, so you can't do it like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22319	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22320	The constitutional foundation exists, and on principles another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22321	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. And in accordance with Article 27, point (f) I limit the debate to three minutes and the replica to a minute. And we're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-1-22/14, of 15.05.2014 (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered in 15.05.2014. The Constitutional Foundation Committee delivered its opinion on 1106.2014. The Financial and Budget Committee in charge delivered its opinion on the principles on 12.06.2014. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Minister of Finance Mr. Špirić wants to speak to the House. Here you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22323	I would like to thank the gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. I just want to say briefly what the purpose and importance of this law is, because we've been working on it for a long time. The aim of the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the financing of BiH's arrests is to establish a fiscal, financial inspectorate within the Ministry of Finance and Treasury whose jurisdiction will be to carry out inspection supervision over the implementation of the Finance Act, and to apply the rules on salaries and other incomes of employees in BiH institutions, as well as the rules on administrative fees and fees in the bodies of the BiH Administration. The adoption of these amendments would remove gaps and irregularities in existing legal regulations. Namely, several existing laws, such as the Law on Payments and Receipts in BiH institutions, and the Law on the Financing of BiH institutions themselves, set out criminal provisions for certain acts or inconclusive by BiH institutions, but there was no prescribed procedure for the application of such provisions, as there was no body that would be competent to carry out these tasks. Although the prescribed criminal provisions are the objective of this Law and its future application of 87 in practice, it is not merely the punishment of the executives, but the provision of legal treatment by BiH institutions in areas covered by the amendments and additions. As a result, it is prescribed a procedure by which the Financial Inspectorate first adopts a solution if it determines an irregularity in the conduct of the institution and leaves a time period for those irregularities to be corrected. Only if the institution fails to comply with the order of the Financial Inspectorate shall an infringement warrant be issued to impose penalties. The amount of punishment will, of course, depend on the extent of the violations committed. The financial inspectorate will be the body to which irregularities in spending public funds are reported, which plays a significant role in implementing the Code on alerters reporting corruption. This, therefore, the inspectorate also does not require an increase in people, does not increase the volume of financial resources within the finance ministry, but it is almost certain that it is necessary to establish a financial inspectorate, to make order in the public finances of BiH institutions. These amendments also refer to criminal provisions of the Finance Act in such a way as to comply with the competences of the Financial Inspectorate. Thus, these amendments and additions to the Law in one place of the joint criminal provision for any violation of the rules under which the Financial Inspectorate is supervised, whether it is a violation of the law itself or of the law governing the area of pay and compensation, and of their sublegal acts, or it is a regulation governing the area of administrative fees and fees, that is to say, any non-tax revenue from the BiH institutions' jurisdiction. Such a way of defining criminal provisions stems from the need to unite the conduct of the Financial Inspectorate from the initiation of inspection supervision to the separation of a criminal order. We have, of course, suggestions that, by any chance, we have today.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22324	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22325	This financial inspectorate would be quite different and audit reports. In entities it's regulated, I'm sorry, I just want to say that there's a difference, there's, therefore, a budget inspection. And so I ask you today to support the adoption of this law because we are doing a good thing, to bring order into public spending of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22326	Thank you. The debate was attended by a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22327	So, half a minute, Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean to discuss it, but I think this is a law to support Parliament, it needs BiH, it introduces financial discipline and discipline in the financial area. Just Mr. Minister, I beg you, you've said one thing and that's why I got up, that when the Financial Inspectorate determines the existence of the offence, there's a warrant to correct the offence and 88 if you do it to anyone, if you don't do it only then a criminal order is issued. I understood you so much. I read, so....._________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know, I know, I've read, so think about that solution, and I call on the commission to consider that solution in this second amendment phase. I think from the point of view of individual and general prevention that solution is not good. It's unknown in criminal matters to do something, some crime, type of crime, business crime or crime, and then to tell someone, let's fix it now, so I won't do anything to you. Therefore, there is sanctions and it acts by itself preventively, therefore, in terms of individual and general prevention. So think about it, and I'm asking the commission to think about it. Otherwise, as far as we're concerned, we will support this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22329	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22330	Well, here's what I appreciate is that this initiative by the Ministry of Finance, or the Council of Ministers, deserves a few words. It's absolutely acceptable to me for the following reasons. So, in this way, as the promoter said, we fill holes, or gaps in laws, unfortunately we ourselves admit that we are quite careless when we pass laws, only post-festum we find that some things are gaps, unsaid etc., and this financial inspectorate would do so. I think it's a very current topic that we're all talking about, so reducing public consumption, control and so on, that one such body within the Ministry could make positive contributions to control and total public spending. And what is a painful point in BiH would get us, as far as I understand, control of the implementation of two very important laws, the Law on Salaries and the Law on the Financing of Institutions. So that's very important to me. And in the end, I think that in perspective, this inspectorate will practically, I don't say, earn, or by its action provide both the means for its existence and its functioning. I sincerely hope I haven't done any harm to the motionary, speaking in this way about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22331	Thank you. So we don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. 89 And we move to point seven, Ad. Seven. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Denis Bećirović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-26/14 of 26.05.2014 The Kolegijum failed to agree on an emergency request. There's no discussion here. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the constitutional basis of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Radio-Television System of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No: 01,02-02-18/14 of 14 April 2014
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22338	Well, just a few words, it's not right, this is the last report that the Commission filed and she could have ended up on this, to process this report on work, but she decided to send home to bring her judgment on it anyway, given that this is a negative report. Here you can see that, which are the reasons, some of these reasons are stated in the explanation of the report, and I think it's clear here. This material will remain for the next composition of the Commission to monitor the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and therefore it would be good to draw attention to some of the problems that are happening within the Agency. We think there are a lot of things to fix, because so far, in a good way, while respecting that in the meantime it has acquired all the conditions, it has not shown the results which determine that its leadership and the Agency... are in a good direction, given that BiH continues to be very high-quoted on the corruption scale and that it is necessary to see if the existing legislation has used all the mechanisms that are in front of it, that the situation in this area will start to change. So this could be a good message for the Agency to take advantage of all available resources and the next report it gives to be much better. So it's short notice, given the short deadlines. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22339	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, please welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22340	Here, I'll try very briefly, appreciating time. So, I'm very sorry that in the review phase of the report and today's debate we didn't have at the same time this report on the audit of the effectiveness of this Agency, which was made by our Audit Office, and it bears the name Presumptions for the effective work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and so on. So this report simply explains the situation in the Agency. It is true that Mrs. Majkić, a colleague of Majkić's, says that the Commission did not support it. and the Commission is not satisfied with the Agency's work, nor is the Agency's management satisfied with its work, nor with the work of the Commission of ours and so on, but in general DUŠANKA
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22341	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22342	No, no, that's my opinion, colleague Majkić. So, in general, neither Parliament nor the Council of Ministers, nor this Commission has created assumptions about the work of this agency. It's neither the place nor the time nor I can read you the reasons and so on, I sincerely hope that based on these recommendations, the Agency's great responsibility at the Agency's leadership, the Agency will turn the page and after 3-4 years of existence will begin to answer the purpose for which we have established it. Of course, I will follow the Commission's position even though I was not at the session then, but I am very sorry that we did not have this document which is a very serious analysis of the situation and work and assumptions for the work of this Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22343	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Or is that a mistake?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22344	Wrong, wrong, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22345	Thank you. So, the esteemed representative Niko Lozančić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22346	I thank the Honorable President. Here we have a report from a newly established BiH institution that faces many discrepancies in the complete system, beginning with Parliament, the Council of 92 ministers and other institutions of government, trying to walk in this past period, and they correctly reported in their Report on everything that followed these attempts along with everything, I would say, quietly or slightly more visible obstructions to take on the obligations they had been made by law. I will also say that I am as one of the members of the Committee who is monitoring the work of this Agency, trying really to monitor the work of this Agency and to support them to take over their intelligence as soon as possible. This opinion was delivered in addition to this is the explanation of three members who were against accepting the Report, but not most members of the Committee were against, most members of the Committee supported the work of the Agency, respecting exactly the circumstances in which the Agency worked. So this is not the position of most members of the Commission. Even most of the members of the Commission speak... but by the way we decided we didn't have every assumption that this agency's work was getting a positive assessment. And I think now, so this Agency is of invaluable importance to BiH and we can call on it as much as we want, if it's real, and not just declarative, we don't provide full and undivided support that they can function at full capacity, we'll be able to attack them for the next 100 years. So, because they are very addictive as the newly established Agency and if they should be independent, and they are very dependent on Parliament, they are very dependent on the Council of Ministers, they are very dependent on the material resources that we give them, they are very dependent on the number of employees we allow them to employ, etc., etc. And according to what we allowed them to do, they did as much as they could, and in that sense I support the Agency's work, expecting the results to be better in the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22347	Thank you. Now it's this replica again. You don't have a replica, no. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Thank you. Honourable representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22349	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here's because the time for discussion is short I'll look back on just a few facts. I am not in the Commission monitoring the work of this agency, but I am in the process of working on some other projects in this Parliament and with the NGO sector met well and I have come to know the work of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Agency. We know when the Agency was established and what is the reason for the establishment and they are a factual condition for the visa-free regime and for the implementation of international, international standards ratified by BiH. However, since its establishment, this agency has faced problems, and if both these reports and the Audit Report, mentioned by counterpart Belkić, are carefully read, then it can be seen how long the processes have really been going on for 93 at all, so the Council of Ministers waited for the systematicisation almost until the end of 2012, so they also waited with the fill-up of jobs, and with the space they did not have all the time struggled with, and the budget was, in fact, only to be made available by half of 2012. Nevertheless, this agency has received another implementation of two important laws, which is the Law on conflict of interest, which has been transferred from the CEC's jurisdiction to the Agency's jurisdiction and all these steps have to be taken. I must say that this has been successfully completed, because I am a member of this Commission for Conflict of Interest, and also of the Law that we have adopted here and in this House, the Law on the Protection of People Reporting Corruption and which is in the process of implementation. As regards those employees at the Agency, they were always ready to meet everyone and, in particular, in the implementation of the strategy and action strategy in the fight against corruption, and they were not late in the implementation of what is stated in this Strategy. Because of all the problems they've been facing in their work I think they've done enough to give them support and that we all work together to get agencies like this and even the institutions that we need in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22350	Time. NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22351	They function in the best way and serve us all together.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22352	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22353	Mr. Chairman, in the interest of using time only in a few sentences per minute of replica. Many agencies established at the level of BiH that have extraordinary conditions, large budgets, enough employees and support from all sides have not produced a fraction of the results given by this Agency, whose report we are considering today, which had none of these preconditions that we are talking about. So, in addition to what counterpart Belkić, Lozančić, co-worker Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović said, in any case, you should only wish that, with further empowerment and the provision of the necessary conditions in such an important sphere as the prevention of corruption and the coordination of the fight against corruption, this agency certainly deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22354	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22355	Thank you, Chairman, to say two sentences. 94 Therefore, the success of this agency is measured by the existing authority. So, did the current government in this term have the political will to put this very important institution, especially for a country in transition, in order, that it is built up in the right sense and that support, that impulse, to fight corruption and organised crime. It seems to me that BiH is a desert island, an enclave in Balakna, which is the only one without corruption and crime. Our environment began seriously with this work a few years ago, let's take Croatia and then Serbia. I remember the synonym of fighting crime was Barać Verica, unfortunately she was dead. There seems to be no political will in BiH to fight organised crime and corruption. And that's a very serious thing, gentlemen, it's too serious, this thing is being given a lot of attention, it's being potent, it's only saying in BiH this isn't a serious thing. Let me just say, it's gonna have to be a serious thing someday, probably. To have this culture, a political culture developed, voters, for voters is the main criterion of how successful the current government has been in fighting organised crime and corruption. That's one of the most important questions in this area. Millions, hundreds of millions are getting lost somewhere on the side, and the government isn't interested in it. She's obviously involved in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22356	Thank you. Dear colleague Zijad Jagodić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22357	Thank you. I would also like to eventually join all the predecessors who spoke in order to support this agency. I think the Agency must have done as much as it could. However, I believe that she would do far more if she were equipped, if she were somehow supplied with the transport needed for such a task as was entrusted to her. We have been discussing this area for three years, but I can say that through this report of the Office of Audit it can be seen that it has to the greatest extent, it can be accepted but through recommendations on pages 34, 35 and 36 where recommendations to the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers and, of course, recommendations to the Agency, what and how to do in the future when it comes to the work of this Agency and so on. I think that, above all, in the Council of Ministers' recommendations, the Office for Auditing should have made it a little clearer to underline and highlight the very means and necessary transport for the Agency to carry out its mission in the way we imagine it. If we settle this, I believe that many MPs, at all levels of great benefit, will be returned multiplely. Unfortunately so far, I, as far as I could track, have not had enough support from this agency. And for their work, I definitely have nothing to say, I think they did as much as they could, but I hope that the Council of Ministers will at least not look at the recommendations of the Audit Office, if they want to, make things better, run and have to do something about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22358	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 95 We move on to the 13th point, Ad. 13. Annual Report and Financial Reports of the Central Bank of BiH for 2013, issue: 01-50-19-480/14 of 03.04.2014 Reports were submitted to the procedure on 03.04. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its Opinion on the Report on 12.06.2014, and the reports were adopted and sent to the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. There is, dear colleague Zijad Jagodić first.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22360	I would also like to say a few words about the Central Bank's work, considering that the Central Bank is certainly doing as much as possible. However, through the analysis of the 2013 Work Report, first of all in the part of the net profit from the sale of monetary gold, then from personal expenses, income from interest, net income from exchange rate differences, in terms of the balance sheet of success, but also from the balance sheet I would not want now, given that the director is here, I would not want to in detail but I would try it if I had the opportunity to ask any questions by October and answer these dilemmas, or any of my remarks. Then, with regard to the balance sheet of the foreign currency in cash in relation to the previous period, then deposits with foreign banks,... assets, total liabilities, capital and reserves, all this is necessary, in my opinion, as part of the Central Bank to pay a little more attention. I believe that you're making efforts, but I think there's a need and there's something else you can do, I'm convinced by knowing and analyzing in your past work assets and passives, balance sheets and successes of many companies and financial institutions, I believe that there's room in the Central Bank, you've got your hands off at the end you're the key, you're the top, and there's certainly something else you can do. First of all, here I would just like to suggest that, why don't the Central Bank, say, print excise stamps or, say, I don't know about administrative fees? Why are we giving it to privates? I think it was written to the Central Bank on the skin, everywhere I know and in some other countries in the environment they do it, why shouldn't we? Increase your income, increase your salary, but do something inventive, creative and in that field, I think there will certainly be plenty of room for these things that I was talking about, to be fixed and to be a little bit through the report a little bit different. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22361	Thank you. Dear counterpart Dragan Vrankić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22362	I'll be brief, just two sentences. Respecting, following this, by analysing the report and looking at the objectives and tasks that the Central Bank has, we think it is at 96 satisfactory levels, fulfilling and implementing and we are giving support on behalf of the HDZ Club for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22363	Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22364	Well, just for a little while. First, in methodological terms, this Report is drawn up as usual for reports of this kind, especially in terms of the size of transactions and the very contents of the Central Bank's work, within the framework of a monetary arrangement that works according to which it works. So these questions that have been raised, I'm really surprised that in this way they've been apostropheeded in one of the previous discussions. What I particularly want to stress, the Central Bank is one of the key institutions thanks to which we have stability in the monetary segment as one of the most important segments of macroeconomic stability. So, if in economic terms we look at the whole of BiH, what might be worth really pointing out as a positive example, it is the mechanism and the roots of the board at the head of course with the functioning of the Central Bank and the way it works. Maybe it's a great example for other institutions where, above all, the profession's languages, especially in the assembly of the Central Bank's Governing Council, of course and with the governor, they run affairs in these extremely difficult times. I would particularly like to emphasise, the preserved macro-economic stability in the monetary segment at a time when almost all countries in the environment have suffered in particular and that the consequences of the effects of the crisis, the economic crisis on our economies. So, here's maybe just in the end to wish the Central Bank team at the head of the governor, to keep doing this job so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22365	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SDP Club of BiH also supports the Central Bank's report, with the assessment that almost all the goals outlined have been achieved in the right way and with the assessment that we have a strong BiH institution with very high financial potential in the Central Bank. As you could see from the report, capital and bank reserves, 466 million marks will certainly be much higher, as this figure is the result of some assessment of the fair value, some elements of the bank's assets and will certainly tend to the level that was 575 million marks in 2012. We had quite a detailed debate on the report at the Finance and Budget Commission yesterday, and I would like to ask the governor the following questions. First – How do you assess economic growth in the conditions of such a natural disaster related to floods? How much will it endanger growth this year and at what level does the Central Bank evaluate it? 97 The second question – Given that the bank's profitability is quite compromised due to the drop in interest rates, is now being conducted in global institutions, cheap money policies are being run in the Central European Bank. It is even a recent decision by the Central Bank to impose negative interest on deposits. So, that's all going to be down by 0.00%, that'll certainly reduce the bank's profitability, your assessment of what kind of profitability can be in this year, because we know that it was planned at 18 million, that 10 million of which are planned for the BiH institutions' budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22367	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a little bit. We had a chance yesterday and that these questions that were raised here along with, where with the presence of Vice Governor and Vice Governor to get answers, therefore I have no further questions. What we needed yesterday was clarified at that meeting of the Commission and the Commission unanimously supported this report. Finally, let me say that we in the SNSD will support this report, that the profits and profits made by 30 million, in any case in very difficult conditions, have come true and are commendable for all of them. The report can serve us that we can benefit from other things that give us certain elements from the overall economy and society in BiH. Here, once again I say, our support for the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22369	The Honorable Governor of the Central Bank, Mr Kemal Kozarić, answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22370	Thank you, Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Here is my pleasure to attend today's debate on the BiH Central Bank's 2013 report. First of all, to mention only our basic mission, namely by law, that we are an institution that is in charge of monetary policy led by this Parliament's decision in the model of the currency committee and to say that we have respected all the principles of the currency board, there has been no breach on any basis and that, I would say, we have invested our foreign reserves that were at the end of 2013, 7.1%, the largest since the establishment of the Central Bank, in a safe and profitable way. I can also say that, here I thank all those who have expressed their support. We have, to put it this way, a limited mandate and we do not have all the powers as a classic Central Bank, but what we have done in the right way, and I think what Professor Hadžiahmetović mentioned, so monetary stability was not questionable, low inflation, the high confidence of the population in the domestic currency, because when you look at a savings ratio of 50:50% and that it grew somewhere 8% in 2013, it clearly says that BiH citizens still have a high level of trust in this institution. 98 On the other hand, when we were just starting to record a slight recovery, and when the GDPs grew by 1.51%), when industrial production started to grow at a rate of 6%, when I said inflation was negative, we had a deflation of 1.2%, of course unemployment as the biggest problem in BiH is 27.5%, the average salary of 838 marks and reserves that I mentioned 7.1 billion or 6.1 months of coverage of imports, this accident came to all BiH citizens and unfortunately what Professor Domazet mentioned and asked, meaning it would have an important impact on macroeconomic indicators in 2014. Our projections were that growth could be 2.6% this year, but it's already certain that we're going to have to correct that rate and that we're already dealing with 0.5% of the growth rate and that another problem that will surely be present and already present, which is the growth of these so-called. MPL's or non-quality loans, which were at 15.1% level, means the ability of clients to service their obligations will be threatened by this accident that has hit all BiH citizens. And we, on the Financial Stability Committee together with the Banking Agency, have taken certain steps to introduce a moratorium for all those who have suffered the damage and who document it and in a way that, I say, we help a population who not their own faults have entered the situation in which it is. On the other hand, what the honourable Jagodić mentioned, means a series of these items he mentioned, there is no problem in the form of parliamentary questions we have answered, we have already had the opportunity to communicate with our colleague in this way. And on the other hand, when he mentioned excise stamps and tax stamps, that is, the fact that some central banks do that have printing and printing their money. We print our money in Germany BANKNOTE, and we make coins in REALMINTU in WELLS, so on the other hand we don't have that instrument, so to speak, that with that, and on the other hand, excise stamps and tax stamps go into the sphere fiscally, so it would be a conflict of interest in one hand. So on that side, I think we did everything we could for the most part. And on the other hand, what's the second question Professor Domazet asked is interest rates. It is true that the European Central Bank entered the sphere of negative interest rates for the first time and that we are working in a difficult environment. The example works only, so in 2008, the level of the reserve was 6.5 billion, the average rate was 4.38 and now in 2013 the same level of the 6.5 billion reserve on average, so we just came back after the crisis, after so many years that level of interest rate is 0.48, and now we have a negative field and for the first 5 months we have a profit of 23 million. So we used this period because we reconstructed the meaning of our reserves and we entered the securities, we left the deposits, we left the commercial banks, and we left one part in the central banks, and the other part in the high-ranking EU countries' securities, so we protected that portfolio from these influences. So I expect that about 30 million, perhaps even more, will be profit this year and on the other hand that the budget will get as it was this year, so BiH, 30 million was profit, we transferred 18 million to the BiH budget in April, 8 more than planned for 2013, and I believe this will happen this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22371	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22372	Thank you, I won't do it anymore. Thank you to all those who support the Central Bank and who have provided support through the clubs, thank you and the Finance Commission and the budget that discussed our reports very constructively yesterday. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22373	Thank you. We close the debate and move on to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2013, issue: 01,02-29-592/14 of 07.05.2014 The report was delivered to the procedure on 07.05. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its Opinion on the Report on 10.06.2014. The report was adopted and sent to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2013 and Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2014, No: 01,02-50-19-649/14 of 22.05.2014
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22377	The chairman, as you recall, we have in the last few years, both at home, introduced a practice to discuss the information on the work of the prosecution, we do not do so without the chief prosecutor's presence. I ask you, given the interestingness of the topic and given the short term that we have been left to discuss, to leave this item on the agenda for the next session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22378	Thank you. I'll put this motion to a vote unless there's someone to hold a debate on this proposal. If there is no one to discuss this proposal.....___________? On behalf of the club, five-minute breaks. On behalf of the SDS Club, five minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22381	Well, I think it's correct to say that today, the deputy chief prosecutor of BiH and the head of the Attorney General's Office sits here all day. We have generally respected the fact that there is a relevant representative in front of the institution, we have often accepted the fact that the Assistant Minister... the Ministry proposes, explains etc. to treat it like this, so I think we can postpone it, but not be the reason we don't have a D.A.'s representative. Here's to correctness, for a stenogram to know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22382	Wait a minute. So, I asked that this is what the proposal was about, but in the meantime, the SDS Club asked for a break. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević explains the break. Is that right or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22383	No, no, I said there's no need to explain. I'm really replicating.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22384	Replica. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22385	Yes, a colleague of Lozančić, whom I really appreciate both the Deputy Chief Prosecutor and the Chief of Kabinet, but here is perhaps the information you missed that you have here, and my colleague Franjičević seems to have been on the Constitutional Commission, there are certain questions. The deputy chief prosecutor told us that he cannot provide us with answers, that he can only write down the answers, that he will give us answers, whether that is how counterpart Kunić and counterpart Kunić was there, the chief prosecutor. So it seems that the chief prosecutor is the only one who can answer some of our drinks here, which we are really interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22386	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22387	We were prepared to support this proposal, thinking and I apologize to the people of the D.A. who are here, that there are none of the representatives of the proposings, but as far as we're concerned, it's important for us to have one of the promoters and we can't support it. We think we should finish the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22388	Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22389	Just what Miss Pandurević said. I mean, it's deplaced to really open the debate when Mr. Mihajlović told us at the Commission that he is not competent, or not authorized,...probably competent and not authorized to answer questions. Because the Constitutional Commission expected a relevant entity to come to the session to answer some questions. I think we should postpone this or tear down the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22390	So, if we vote, we will vote whether to receive knowledge or not. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22391	Well, you see, if we have representatives of institutions, I think we have all the conditions to end this point on the agenda today. That's one thing. Secondly, I am surprised that here already in two or three, I understand colleagues who are members of the Constitutional Commission and who make arguments that they have not received answers to some questions on the Constitutional Commission. I'm asking the question now, why did the Constitutional Commission send this because we could not have this on the agenda today? Because the Constitutional Commission could also ask that, in line with my colleague Majkić's proposal, she should consider the Information only when an authorised promoter arrives. 102 So I think we have all the conditions and we can end this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22392	Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22393	So it's amazing how much we don't have respect for ourselves. At a time when we run to go to the game, at a time when there are strong controversy in society about the activities of the attorney general, at a time when the prosecution is spoken of as an institution and we have no patience to talk about it in a way that at least time leaves as much business as we are allowed. So it is obvious that some are not ready to open up some questions, and it is obvious that this is the prosecution whose information, therefore not the report but the Information, we should consider, is that we do not have the strength to do so. And that says something, that it's obviously an institution to measure one and against the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22394	Replica, dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22395	It is not a classic replica, but here, given that I participated in the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I think it is true that Mr. Mihajlović said he was not authorized to answer certain questions and it is true that he informed us that we would be able to look for these answers with Mr. Chief Prosecutor at this session. But I have no doubt that Mr. Mihajlović may be authorized this time to answer questions, so I don't see that kind of obstacle. Very short. It's a small depression, but it's also in the function of all of this that we're discussing. I also don't think it's appropriate to discuss important, interesting topics in a way that limited discussion to three minutes and replicas to what, per minute or two, is irrelevant. That opinion was the last time we were to discuss amendments to the Law on the Public TV System. But I remind you, there were other very interesting and important points waiting for us at the time, such as the Human Rights Report in 2013, it's totally unacceptable that we, in turn, do some points that should be really discussed with quality. One of these points is this, although our maneuvering space here is not Bog knows what, we actually have information and we can take it into knowledge or not take it into knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22396	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SBB Club considers the institution of the Prosecutor's Office to be an institution and can be represented by authorised and competent when the institution decides to do so. I wouldn't mind Mr. Salihović coming here today, but I don't insist on it either, nor the members of our club, if the gentlemen have come delegated by the institution. We therefore support the debate and hope that no one will ever come to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly unauthorized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22398	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22399	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever wants this House to discuss this Information according to the information this House has has has enough and material, has enough and recommendations, and there are representatives of the institutions who have made this Information. So, politicization may require something broader, but this House doesn't need a thing to politicize, this House needs to analyze things and do what's in its jurisdiction, in order for this institution to do what is more successful, and there are recommendations of that kind. That's why we're going to stand up to a delay in the debate at this point in the agenda, and we're going to ask that we end this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22400	Thank you. There are no more applications for the debate on the proposal of my colleague Majkić, who also asks the House if you would like to postpone the information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for the next session at first. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 12, v. 19, abstention 3. There was no general majority regarding this proposal. We're continuing with this agenda point. I call upon MPs who want to discuss, to apply. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the debate. And we're going to the 17th point of the agenda. I also thank the D.A.'s representatives who followed our work today. I didn't see a wish or a report that they wanted to come forward, so we're going to the 17th point. 104 Ad. 17. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the alignment of the text of the Law on Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-5/14, since 05.02.2014 This bill was adopted in a different text in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. The House of Peoples was appointed by delegates: Martin Raguž, Seudin Hodžić and Staš Košarac. The proposal of the Kolegijum and the Kolegijum in the extended composition is that MPs are appointed from the House of Representatives: Saša Bursać, Mirza Kušljugić and Niko Lozančić. I'm opening a debate. There were announcements from some clubs that they wanted to change the Commission. My colleague Babalj left, these appointments when it comes to him, and I'm surprised he's been through it. Okay, I'm closing the argument. And we move to the 18th, that is, the 18th to the 22nd agenda, Ad. 18 to 22.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22404	You are the chairman of the administration when it comes to the conclusions of the Council of Ministers, among them was the conclusion concerning the Parliamentary Assembly exclusively, such as one of our conclusions concerning the establishment of an investigative Commission on Irregular Irregularity, we delivered that conclusion, it is not the responsibility of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22405	Col. Bojiću's current practice of this Assembly was to deliver on such an initiative a decision to vote on, the decision means a mandate, the number of members with a description of the work and everything else, which you can do next time and vote on that decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22406	It's no problem, we'll file an initiative to call an extraordinary session, so it won't be a problem to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22407	Okay, okay. Thank you. I ask the House can we take note of the Council of Ministers' information on the proposal for conclusions? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, v. 2, abstention 1. I find that we have received knowledge of this information. We are going to item 4 – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. I warn the House that if the bill of law is adopted, the Constitutional Commission shall be rejected if the opinion is not adopted in accordance with Article 107(3). The Rules of Procedure are in charge of drawing up a new opinion. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 20, against 12, abstention 5. Insufficient support from the RS for this negative opinion, the College will subsequently agree. 106 We move to point 5. – Proposal for a law on non-working days during religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mato Franjičević. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is also negatively the same target, the same deviation. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 31, against 4 abstentions 2. I konstatovati that we have adopted the Opinion and the bill has been rejected. Moving to point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We are voting on the draft law on the financing of institutions in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. The HDZ Club's proposal reiterates the vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 20, against 12, abstention four. I konstatovati that he has not received support from the RS, please __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22411	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22412	Dear colleague, from which club, mixed?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22413	A mixed...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22414	Ask for a re-election, please prepare for a re-election. Please prepare for the re-election. You can vote now. For 20, against 15, abstention 2. Since it is 2/3 against the RS, I find that no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission has been adopted, and this law returns to the Constitutional Commission for re-emergence. We move to point 9. Also – Commission Report to the College, the principles of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Radio-Television System of BiH. We voted only in the second round on the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, which was also negative. 108 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 23, against 12, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22415	I'm looking for a repeat on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-06-12-0.u22416	A colleague, Božo Ljubić, requests a repeat vote on behalf of the club. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote again, now. For 22, against 13, abstention 2. Not enough 2/3 of the RS to return this law to the Commission. And now we have a very awkward situation, so the law has fallen at this point because it cannot be returned to the Commission for traffic and communication, regardless of how it returns to the Commission constitutionally to give a re-examination. I think we're all clear on what's going on. Thank you. We are also moving to item 10. We are also voting on – the Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the draft law on international legal aid in civil matters. We vote in the second round on the draft law in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 25, against 10, abstention 2. I konstatovati that, in the first reading, the Law did not fall on international legal aid. We are going to point 11. Also – Commission Report to the College, and this is about the initiative of counterpart Beriz Belkić. We vote only in the second round on MP Beriz Belkić's initiative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 29, against 8, there were no abstentions. I find this initiative has passed. We move to item 12, the colleagues here are talking about – The report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2013, but in the present, only a little while, in the work so far we have always voted on a report that includes the opinion of our competent commission and the conclusions contained in it. Since our Commission's opinion is negative, I would separate this vote in two, to vote on the report, and then to vote on our Commission's opinion with a conclusion. Do you agree with that? Okay. 109 We vote first on the adoption of the Agency's report on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 32, there were no abstentions 5. I konstatovati we adopted this report. We are now voting on the opinion of our Commission for the Control and Monitoring of this body. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For it wasn't, against 29, abstentions 7.. We konstatovati that we have not accepted the opinion of our Commission. We move to the 13th point, we vote on – The adoption of the Annual and Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2013. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions 3. I understand we've adopted these reports. We vote in point 14. o – The adoption of the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2013. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, there wasn't, uh, six abstentions. I konstatuj we adopted this report. At item 15, we vote on – The adoption of the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2013 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2014. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
