ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19551	Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. Dear guests, I am opening the 62nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly follow our work as well as representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and MP Šemsudin Mehmedović announced a delay. According to the information service, 34 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. At first, let me thank my colleague Denis Bećirović for the past 8 months of running this House and correct co-operation, and, secondly, allow me to congratulate the Republic of Serbia for starting negotiations with the EU. As for the amendments and additions to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following points are added to the agenda: Point 15. Review of MPs Mladen Bosić's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić and Vesna Krstović Spremo, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we present to you a parliamentary initiative for the replacement of MPs Denis Bećirović from the post of member of the College of the House of Representatives, in the follow-up procedure." Point 16. Proposal for a decision appointing the members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. Point 17. Member's appointment: (a) Independent Committee, (b) Citizens' Appeals Committee, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure. Point 19. A review of the BiH Radio Television memo on the business and programme existence of three public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission. 2 Point 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska and the European Investment Bank and the JP of Republika Srpska highways. Point 5. The draft law on the rights of victims of torture – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić are complemented by the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, which is negative. Point 6 is also completed. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative and second time. Point 7 has been rephrased, and now it is said: The House's statement on setting a new deadline for delivering opinions on the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. Since this is a repeated activity, we will discuss whether the deadline will be extended or whether the legislative procedure will be suspended. That's why the agenda has been re-formed. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. If there are no reports, I'll close the hearing. I find that the 62nd session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 60th and 61st sessions of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-56/13, of 19.12.2013; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-54/13, of 27.11.2013 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Cake Victims – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, Law No: 01-02-1-50/13, of 05.11.2013, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-42/13, of 12.11.2013, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 7. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions on the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-52/13, of 20.11.2013 or the suspension of the legislative procedure; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-53/13, of 25.11.2013 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-59/13, from 10.12.2013 (first reading); 3 10. The Commission's report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal to consider the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets under a reduced procedure in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-61/13, of 27.12.2013; The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MP Ante Domazet from the 57th session of the House, held on 20.11.2013, which reads: "I am launching a parliamentary initiative under the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare information on the implementation of the current agreement with the IMF, with an emphasis on the following issues: - an assessment of the eligibility of the IMF arrangement in relation to alternative ways of resolving instability in public finances in BiH (radical reduction of public spending, increase in taxes, sales of state capital and other resources of the state and entities, debt in commercial banks and other) - evaluation of key objectives from the letter of intention by the BiH authorities (economic growth, business environment, structural and other reforms, and other reforms, as well as the first step forward of the reform of the IMF. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on a motion for a resolution on the decision of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council on the shortening of the time allowed for advertising in public broadcasting services programmes in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposers: MEPs Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Anto Domazet, Mirsad Đugum and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, issue: 01-02-2-1218/13, since 21.11.2013; 13. Decision of the BiH Presidency on the appointment of the Commander of the 4th Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-03-1177/13, dated 05.12.2013; 14. Decision on the adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Transport Policy for the period from 2013 to 2020, number: 01,02-02-1-1335/13, from 24.12.2013; 15. Review of MPs Mladen Bosić's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), we present to you a parliamentary initiative for the replacement of MP Denis Bećirović from the post of member of the College of the House of Representatives, in the follow-up procedure.’ number: 01-34-1-55/14, from 10.01.2014; 16. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest - Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly; 17. Member's appointment: c) Independent Committee, d) Citizens' Appeals Committee, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure (proposal of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes), issue: 01-02-34-1110/14, of 22.01.2014; 18. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4 19. Consideration of the BiH Radio-Television letter concerning the business and programme existence of three public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, No: 01/5-29-1081,27/13, of 04.12.2013; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Co-operation in Veterinary Cooperation, No 01,02-05-2-1250/13, of 02.12.2013; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the JP The highways of Republika Srpska – The Highway of Banja Luka-Dobod, issue: 01.02-05-2-64/14, since 13/012014; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes, No: 01,02-05-2-1326/13, of 24.12.2013; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, No: 01,02-05-2-1327/13, of 24.12.2013; 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Security Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, issue: 01.02-05-2-39/14, dated 07.01.2014; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OSCE in the field of defence and security, number: 01,02-05-2-44/14, of 08.01.2014; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the MEDIA 2007 programme, issue: 01,02-05-2-45/14 of 08.01.2014; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of the National Economy of Hungary on the co-operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, No: 01,02-05-2-43/14, since 08.01.2014. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 60th and 61st session of the House of Representatives You've got the records. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to second point, Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19554	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, sometimes at this point, which is mostly dreary and answers late, a miracle occurs so you get an answer to the question you asked at the previous session. It sounds almost incredible, but I must really say that if the Constitutional Court, which answered my question from last session, this is the way Parliament is treated, I am very grateful to the Presidents of the Constitutional Court of BiH, Mrs Valerija Galić. So my question was – how far has the BiH Constitutional Court's appeal to the BiH Court's verdict on the retroactive application of the Criminal Law come? And you know how long it's been? 29 appeals. He promises that we will have the exciting work of the Constitutional Court. I'm glad I heard this, and I hope we can track what's going on in the future. I'm grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19555	Thank you. Next to comment, dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19556	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I asked the next question on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2012 and '13, although modest means of implementation... Dayton Peace Agreement – I would also like to receive... information for which the funds spent from 2012 and 6 the first 9 months 2013 with a list of individual projects and end-users by municipalities of implementation. I received a three-page answer and none of these questions I asked were answered except that in principle it can be concluded, when carefully read, that in 2012 and 2013 no concrete project was yet realised but I received very interesting answers. The institution that operates within the framework of the... return which is called the Commission, the Committee for Refugees and displaced persons by the decisions it has made, which I see from this decision, are more the Committee for the Prevention of Returns than the Committee for Returns, because by some miracle they took the authority to designate 60 municipalities in which they will implement these funds for return and those of about 90 municipalities of others as, in their opinion, do not belong to that category in which these funds could be implemented, including the Kakanj Municipality from whose territory, in relation to the pre-war population, were displaced or exiled or expelled over 20,000 people. If there are some municipalities from which there are more displaced, refugees, however you will, the pre-war residents of the municipality, so that I am absolutely in agreement that there is no need or conversion mark to separate the Kakanj Municipality. But when it looks at the list of municipalities that the Commission, which should be the Commission for displaced persons and refugees, has identified as priorities, I must say at the very least, not to use any difficult term, to surprise me and I would like to know what the aim of this Committee is. Is the goal of disabling the return of anyone who really wants to return, is the goal of having those who have gone astray back to where they have returned to prevent them from surviving in that area, or is the goal of something else. So, I'm asking, I'm renewing this question, and I'm asking for a concrete answer, concrete data, to this question, and I suggest that these decisions, which are discriminated against by citizens and municipalities in BiH territory, which is contrary to the Strategy, be put out of force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19557	Thank you. Next, dear colleague Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19558	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, the media, I welcome you all together. First, I would like to thank everyone, all the institutions who have answered the questions asked. First of all, I would like to comment on the response from the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, who I particularly thank for the answers I have raised regarding the Law on Transport and Communications, and I have repeatedly set up the competent ministry, but I have rarely received answers. However, I was asked to ask the Council of Ministers for an answer – what about 10 laws in the field of transport and communication. And I thank them, I got the answer, but from the answer to individual laws I see that in each of them very little has been done. I'm not happy, but I'll run other initiatives and questions. As far as the other issues of value are concerned, the privatisation of Energopetrol. We practically privatized this company at federal level. The customer's obligation was to invest 150 million marks, of which only about 6, or 10 million marks were invested, or recapitalised from liquid production funds, which was not additional fresh assets as provided for in the contract. However, in the process, the government did not take anything and 7 launched an initiative to break up the recapitalisation Treaty, as practically bonds oblige each party to act on the contract. It's obvious here that for many years the state social capital has been being drawn up and the privatisation treaty has done nothing. I think this is one of the more interesting answers, but it makes it seem like we don't need privatisation this way. As for another very interesting response that I have addressed to all chambers of commerce, entity and cantonal, as regards the division of detail to companies operating across Europe, however, in response to all cantonal chambers, everyone welcomes the initiative, so cantonal chambers of commerce decide which activities they will receive and work in the field, because they know the economy best. However, the problem is on entity levels, so the Federal Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce in the RS, which practically in its own way, according to its vision gives details of which we have major problems. I believe that these answers sufficiently suggest that the powers of the economic entity chambers should be transferred to cantons to help the development of the economy, to speed up initiatives that come from the field of businessmen who know what to do and what Europe is looking for. As far as these answers are concerned, I will also show myself in the next initiatives and for now I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19559	Thank you. The next to comment on the response received was Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have raised one very important question for every resident and citizen of BiH, of course it is about what is most sacred to us, about our health. This answer is similar to the huge number of answers all of us MPs get. A lot of sentences that don't say anything. In 90% of the cases are based on that famous all right and then using two of those short sentences that... it's okay, but, or it's all good and it's based on my answer. It did not surprise me, but the combination when it comes to the health of every BiH resident and especially during the last period of this affair,... I wanted to draw attention to the precisely established mafia logic used in the case of pharmacology, so the production of medicines in our country and pharmaceuticals as the one that distributes these medicines. The desperate situation in which all BiH health is located, there are neither the people, nor the people, nor the faith, nor the nation. When you're sick, then you're just a sick man. I've really tried hoping for a reasonable explanation why some things don't work out quickly, why it's such a difficult situation in our health care. My practical, come on, little mini college here a doctor sitting with me, a respected professor Dr. Đugum and Dr. Kabil together and with our club, remember, we often asked questions... to solve a tragedy called health care in BiH. We never got an answer and the situation is getting harder and harder. In the next parliamentary question, which I will ask when it comes to that order, you may be seriously concerned about what you will hear if you have any reason and logic for this... Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19561	Thank you. We're done commenting on the answers we've received. Moving to b) New Parliament Questions Please sign in. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, as... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19563	My question is about the last incursion at the Kasarin Inn near Banja Luka. So, I've asked a few questions to the Secretary of Defense, and I hope they answer before this case goes to waste. First question – What type and quantity of material technical means have disappeared at the military location of Krčmarica near Banja Luka? Under two – Who is directly in charge of the watch on this Location? Under three – Is it true that the Bihaq bataljon has replaced the watch in charge of celebrating Orthodox holidays and is it true that they have reported the theft within 15 minutes of taking over the guard? How was the handover of the warehouse done that day? On what grounds has the theft been reported? How can you justify the claim that theft was reported only fictitiously, in order to protect those who had stolen MTS from storage and sold earlier? When will the report on this case be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19564	Thank you. The next one is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19565	Thank you, Persistant. Here, since this is today the first session to be held, the House of Representatives, allow me to wish you the success of the next months of your running this House and also to thank my colleague Denis for the session's ongoing conduct, the correct conduct of the session in the previous period. I have two parliamentary questions. One question was addressed to the Council of Ministers. After the Decision of the Kosovo institutions on the introduction of visas for BiH citizens – Have you analysed the possible consequences of the same and possible modality of overcoming the negative consequences that can be reflected in the economic relations between BiH and Kosovo? My question is primarily explained by the fact that all countries in the region, regardless of whether they have established diplomatic relations, or whether they have recognised Kosovo's independence, have regulated the status and visa regime with Kosovo. Both the second and second reasons, Kosovo is a significant external trade partner in BiH, and our exports are well directed towards Kosovo in the region. And the second question is, it is aimed at the relevant institutions in the RS and, specifically, the Gacko Opština – who is and on the basis of which decision has put the Serbian mark on the road from Gacka to Foca, specifically at the exit from Gacko, i.e. who is responsible for the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling regarding the names of municipalities and cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19566	Thank you. Dear counterpart Drago Kalabić is next registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19567	I thank the chairman. Also on behalf of the SNSD Club, I wish you a successful chairmanship of this House in the coming period and thanks to the current chairman. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda – što will you do about the fact that the Directorate for indirect taxation headed by the Director is obstructing the work of the BiH Parliamentary House of Investigation Commission? A very short explanation: This House has extended the mandate on two occasions to the Commission. To this day, the Administration has not delivered any requested documents. He's no longer responding to any calls or meetings, which we find inappropriate. I don't think the Commission will finish its work, but I am interested in the position of all other institutions in this. I don't know what to call such behaviour and I'm interested in what institutions that have ties to the administration will do, I'm talking about normal communication and the normal relationship between BiH institutions, which is missing here. I'm being associated with him, and it's all clear to me, but right now I'm talking about the fact that until today we have been denied by the Administration for any kind of vision. All that has been promised before the members of the Commission is not respected and refusal to participate in the Commission's further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19568	Thank you. Next is Honorable colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19569	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking two questions, or two of the ERs to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I am pleased that Mr. Sredoje Noviću is here, whose work as a man and as a minister I appreciate, but simply in his scope is work concerning the functioning of the absolute Ministry of Civil Affairs. That's why I'm setting up two ERs. 10 One is the conclusion reached by this Parliamentary Assembly that has been to be realized for more than a month and has not been realised. And another question that stands out at this very moment. If we are not up in almost two months to get up from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or we get a systematization of at least one sector that has been sought in response, then I am asking a real question that has been said then – How are we going to realise certain projects and certain conclusions of Parliament? These two urgenities are delivered in writing and I ask Mr. Minister to give me this answer as soon as possible to the questions already from the 9th month and 12th month, they should have been already on the benches of the MPs and should have been discussed, if nothing, or anything, or that some things should turn in a positive light. I thank and hope the minister will appreciate this and deliver it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19570	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19571	Thank you. I have one parliamentary initiative and one question. I refer the parliamentary initiative to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Banja Luka. It is essential that we practically decentralise the state as much as possible through institutions, bring it closer to citizens, businesses and the population, etc. In this regard, some things are resolved at the state level, also at the Federation level, but I also believe that it is necessary to pursue the RS area to bring certain ministries closer to the bases that suit all of its elements in the region. I therefore propose that the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining in RS be dislocated to Srebrenica, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in Bijeljin, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons in Prijedor, more specifically Kozarac, the Ministry of Economic Relations and Regional Co-operation in Zvornik. The reasons are set out in the initiative. And I refer the parliamentary question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, including the BiH Armed Forces Ministry – Is this the Ministry, or are these ministries familiar with the disciplinary punishment of BiH Armed Forces employees for wearing a scarf in Kasnar Pazaric? I ask that this case be checked, if correct, in accordance with their powers and competences, to take appropriate measures against the responsible, and to deliver a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19572	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19573	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. 11 I have more questions and I will not read everything, I will read only what I ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I would also like to remind the College of the House of Representatives that the public debate on higher education was held in the previous period, more than half a year ago, that this never came, the report made up, never came to this House's agenda. But I ask a question about science. So my questions are as follows: How much has been allocated in 2013 for science from all levels of the RS budget, the Federation and BiH? How much in 2013 did science withdraw funds from international projects and funds? How much will BiH lose due to the doing of part of IPA projects intended for BiH, and what activities in the Ministry of Civil Affairs lead to coordination of activities in scientific and research work and with which institutions in BiH and outside? And the next set of questions I'm not going to read are addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Veterinary Office and the Ministry, I don't know which office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19574	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19575	I have one question for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So – What are the real reasons why you have been refusing consent for several years to develop a strategy for the development of the BiH energy sector, despite the fact that the Energy Policy Principles Agreement, signed by the Council of Ministers and the entity government, has established that after the adoption of entity energy strategies, the principles for the development of the BiH energy strategy will be defined. The entity strategies were adopted in 2009, i.e. 2010, and the Council of Ministers in continuity in its work programme 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013 included the creation of this document. Unfortunately, no realisation. So I'm asking, among other things, when are we going to, like, interrupt a kind of suicide practice of losing funds? In this particular case, we had 750,000 euros from IPA funds that we lost because we didn't start working. Recently, the director of the Energy Community Secretariat of Europe, Mr. Janez Kopač, presented the debate that BiH would lose 100m euros each year if it did not adopt to start a strategic document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19576	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19577	Thank you. A good creamworth gave me an esteemed colleague, Beriz Belkić, because last year our country lost 71 million marks because the Central Bank purchased and sold gold under unfavourable conditions. So we can save it here too, so my question is addressed in that sense. 12 – I am interested in what legal act has established the establishment of a Central Bank Investment Committee and the level of compensation of this Committee? Who are the members of this Committee, and I ask that all the members be quoted as to how much compensation they had in the last year, and did these fees be paid by chance, since their work cost 71 million marks of loss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19578	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19579	Mr. President. We all know that it is not a rare phenomenon that no answer is ever given to parliamentary issues or that it is due to a great time delay. I have a habit of asking questions that are particularly important to me waiting about a year to get an answer, and unless I get one more question, I usually repeat it again. That's how I'm gonna do it this time. Almost a year ago, on the 14th of last year, I asked the next parliamentary question I am renewing. The issue was according to the Council of Ministers – To address the problem in the water economy, the '96 Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. In the year, the Committee for the Water Economy was formed. Did the Committee in its work so far have a focus on the problem of hydroaccumulation of Busko Blato, i.e. the conditions under which local waters are collected in the area of the municipalities of Livno and Tomislav City are used to produce electricity in the Republic of Croatia? I will extend the question with one question – Does the Council of Ministers have any knowledge of the action, of the work of this Committee that is very important? Is that what it does, or is it gone in the meantime? But in any case, I would ask the esteemed Mr. Bevanda to work on the answer to this question, because it's really important to me without that answer, no matter what it is, I simply can't adjust some of the steps that I'm planning on doing when it comes to this problem. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19580	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19581	Thank you very much. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, ministers. Lately, even in recent years, it has been said, very often our workers come into an unfavourable position because of their lack of work at BiH level going to other countries. This departure to other countries, if carried out legally, is through the Employment Service, the Agency for Labour and Employment at BiH level, then, this legal flow has been verified and in such a way cannot happen any problems when it comes to their departures, stays, wages, insurance, etc. However, people forced by the lack of work go through a variety of mechanics who make them big promises, through these big promises offering big profits, while blackmailing them to pay off certain funds in advance. For these reasons, they are forced to leave. That's how it happened recently, it seems to me in Azerbaijan, so here's the last thing that happened in Russia in Sochi, where our 13 workers were held there because they didn't have adequate work permits. For that reason, my question. And then we had in the media that nothing had happened, that it had not been done at all, I would have just for the public, if nothing had been done, then at least, I can't believe that anything, because I've been through some conversations with the people of the ministry, that they've engaged maximumly, that they've been going, etc., but the media says that the Foreign Ministry, that our embassy in Moscow, did nothing to get rid of it. Well, in order for it to be public, or at least to be denied, let it be said, because I assume that certain activities have been led after all. They may be run along with some other countries, but my question is for those reasons. And another suggestion before I ask, that those questions when they are asked at this session should come to the next session. They are not difficult questions that require several months of answers and then do not become current if they are not resolved quickly. And to specify the question – What has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done to help BiH citizens who have been imprisoned in Russia in Sochi because of their lack of work visas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19582	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19583	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues. Well, I have one question and one initiative. I'll send you the question in writing, but here's an initiative I'm going to explain a little bit. In view of last session, we had a agenda point just about my previous initiative concerning border crossings and crossing of citizens and goods across the border of BiH towards other countries, and since, let me remind you, at the previous session, we practically had two sessions where the speed was concerned, while I answered, the technique as it responded, Mr Bećirović, who then chaired the session, means at the second point of the agenda. I've lost the ability to suggest conclusions about that point. Well, now I'm going to update them, so again through the initiative, because it's practically some kind of business way for me to do it again. So, I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly put on the agenda of the next session of the agenda to read – a decision on the obligation of the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of the BiH Borders to report every 6 months on the situation at all border crossings, with a view to each. So, what is the status of every border crossing that was active before Croatia's entry into the EU, what is the plan with each border crossing, how is the crossing of goods and citizens at each border crossing, which are other problems with border crossings? So that's my parliamentary initiative. And as I was saying, I'm going to send you another one in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19584	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19585	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of Mr. Bašić, I will read the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19587	Thank you very much. So on behalf of Mr. Bašić, we ask the BiH Council of Ministers and the competent ministry, the prime minister of the Republika Srpska government and the competent ministry and the prime minister of the Federation government and the competent ministry. We are witnessing a tragic, alarming situation and problems in the whole of BiH, I am talking about a lack of cytostatics to treat cancer and malignancies. It is amazing that there are currently 16 medicines missing from our country’s territory that are used for premedication, hormonal therapy and chemotherapy. According to doctors, the lack of each of these individuals can be fatal to patients because they affect chemotherapy protocols that are required to be strictly adhered to in the treatment of patients. – Are you aware, gentlemen, and do you have information about this problem? Whose responsibility is this? You are carrying part of the responsibility for the health and lives of the sick and so please respond to what steps you intend to take to address this problem urgently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19588	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19589	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I have four parliamentary questions. First of them, I will ask the BiH Council of Ministers and I ask the Council of Ministers, if it is in a position, to answer the question immediately, that we do not correspondence. The question is: Is the Council of Ministers considering the White Paper issued annually by the Foreign Investors Council in BiH and what is the co-operation of the Council of Ministers with the Foreign Investors Council of BiH and other similar associations of investors in our country? So when we talk about the BiH Foreign Investors Council, it is a very important association of investors in BiH, whose members employ a large number of BiH citizens. It is known that they have protocols on co-operation with entity governments, but I believe that, therefore, the Council of Ministers should, as I say, be in connection with this association. So, please, for an answer if I can right away, and I'm going to ask the other questions in writing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19590	Thank you. Since we no longer have registered MPs for parliamentary matters, I am concluding the second item of the agenda. 15 We move to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 19 December 2013 with a request for an urgent examination in accordance with Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19592	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of this law is a condition that BiH can organise elections in October this year. We have already adopted the Law with practically the same content here at the House of Representatives, but the advantage of this Law is that it has already been adopted in the House of Peoples, because the House of Peoples for no reason, in my opinion, did not consider the text of the Law adopted before that by the House of Representatives. But I do not want to lead the controversy between the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, I want BiH to be able to organise the general elections this year as soon as possible. That's why this law is needed, and we're going to support it for that. So that way we'll get an amendment to the Electoral Law which means holding elections and we'll support this text. I would just ask, let that thing be said here, when this text is published, there is, it is not the reason why we should not today adopt this Law, it should be adopted, I will support it, but I want it to be said, I have examined the original text in detail, so the basic text and text of this Law, in this Law, in my opinion, is unnecessaryly requested to delete Articles 9.3 and 20.13.(?) Because the Constitutional Court did it, but here, I mean, what can we do, just stand there. And then it is said that a new Article 9.2.a is added behind Article 9.2.a) and then it describes the composition of the electoral units for the national parliament of the RS, and the original text says that in Article 9.3 which is deleted. I think it should have stood to add a new Article 9.3. But it doesn't matter, we're going to have Article 9.2. So we're going to have, which describes the Federation election units, so 9.2.a) that describes from the RS, so it's not going to be 9.3. it's going to be 9.4. Have the Act Publishing Sector take care of this fact. We will uphold this law and vote for this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19593	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19594	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that today BiH can get an Electoral Law that can allow elections to be discussed at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to avoid any doubt that someone in this country does not want elections. The fact is that this is a much better law than the law that we had here in the procedure and that passed towards the House of Peoples, where he got a negative opinion. 16 It is better because it respects the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia and does not violate the provisions that the BiH Constitutional Court said we must change here. Not only the names of the cities, but also the Law concerning that some of the municipalities have grown into cities. Normotechnically, as counterpart Džaferović spoke of, could be better. We have two principles in solving this problem. One principle advocated by the SDA and SDS, which is to completely ignore the fact that these members exist in the Law after the Constitutional Court gave its interpretation. Some others think that the Constitutional Court, I have checked with a lawyer, and for the right to make a proposal that came from the Council of Ministers, that the Constitutional Court cannot be a legislator and that the Constitutional Court can put members out of force but cannot throw them out of the law, and that this Parliamentary Assembly can only say that one member is being deleted or that the member is changing. That's why it is this ambiguity about normative, or the number of members in this Law that came from the House of Peoples. At the same time, I think he could have been clearer. More clearly, in the sense that the temporal provisions which are now attached to RS, which has adopted its Election Law where it has regulated, both regions, or constituencies, as well as the number of complementary mandates, whether this is automatically deleted from the Law or whether it is necessary to say that these members are also deleted because that temporal provision has ceased to apply. He's a vague member where he writes until the entities pass the laws. Whether it binds to both entities, so they're connected that they both have to pass the law or it's tied to one. So we're talking about precision and ambiguity, and that it could have been a little more precise, because according to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia and East Sarajevo is a city, regardless of what East Sarajevo is made up of municipalities and currently has no election commission or members, does not mean that sometimes it won't have any. And precisely it could have been suggested that East Sarajevo was also a city. However, the SNSD Club will support this Law because it is better, much better and legal but also essential and it is very important for us not to violate the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia and today BiH can get the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19595	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19596	Well, I'm going to start around as well as my colleague Živković, maybe just with other terms. The fact is that BiH could have won the Election Law and created preconditions for holding elections in November last year, when we adopted the SDS bill here. And this law, in my opinion, when it comes to procedure, absolutely meets the conditions, is understandable and it is about the need to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. Two three sentences related to the quality of nomochniks, way of solving etc. Therefore, it is obvious that the practice of proposing laws by both MPs and clubs, etc., without coordination with the CEC, with the Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers, is not good. We got, if you noticed, a few days ago the Council of Ministers' Opinion on the Law proposed by the SDS Club on the same subject. Unfortunately, everything is written about the work programme and what needs to be done, etc., but not a word about the law. However, there are no sentences that the law is not good, this is what Mr. Živković was talking about. But here we are, not to lose, as our people say, we will support this procedure and we will uphold the law. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19597	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19598	So we're happy as the SDS MPs' club because we've finally come to a solution to the danger of holding elections this year. That was our goal. Therefore, the SDS has tabled amendments that address this issue. This House has supported these amendments. These amendments went to the House of Peoples, and then there was this whole udurma. Two SNSD proposals are coming, one of Mr. Živković's proposals for, I don't know, what's the difference between these two I haven't compared what Košarac suggested, and there's a cramping struggle to prove that the SDS amendment is something wrong, pulling hair into tens. All in all, the SDS managed to get there to solve this problem. We will support this law without any vanity, without any proof that you are smart and educated, and we contrary, so we believe that we have done a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19599	Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19600	I thank the chairman. Well, of course, the SNSD Club will support this law, but I'm obliged to say a few sentences about this whole story now that, here, we'll get the law, when all those stories that were malicious stop, now you see the false ones. Whoever wanted to carry out the obstruction had a chance, still has a chance today, but I haven't seen those in this House. But it's trying to cloud another fact, which is that we haven't made comprehensive amendments to the Electoral Law that the SNSD was prepared for, which we insisted on and that at one point we were blocked by the actions of those other people who turned things in the other direction. And not to open that question, I think it was unnecessary and then we could do with that Interresor group, as far as I can see, this new one hasn't even met yet, that we could do a lot of good things and fix things that we're closing our eyes on right now, and what are the facts. I see that also distinguished Parliamentarian Doris pak has looked back on whether she is in possession of daily political stories or speculative media writings, that here someone will not create conditions for the elections, but there is another fact that she has not talked about either and that we are not talking about, which remains behind us – that BiH has poor Election Law. I don't believe that Mrs. pak, and we all do, that we don't know that it's still being stolen in BiH in the elections, I don't believe she doesn't know that there are legal votes being bought in BiH in the elections. I do not believe that he knows that there was no decision in BiH to cancel the elections and all of this under the auspices of some institutions, and that the authorities have not conducted any single investigation and investigative action, nor have they punished anyone for it. At the time, our goal was to at least try to correct and disable legislation, of course we are not idealists to completely eliminate it, to make it impossible for such things to be corrected by certain things, but there was no understanding. All those solutions remain that will continue to enable such things that, I do not believe, are being implemented anywhere in Europe. We are witnesses to this, we who are participating in the electoral process, and we know that this has nothing to do with democratic elections and democratic fluids related to the electoral process in 18 European countries and what is happening in BiH. It's a poravažajući fact that, at least I don't remember, that after any election, no elections have been annulled in that essential sense, and you've had such remarks that man simply can't understand that it happened in certain polling stations and everything that happened afterwards, and the results themselves, and you know it well, both between political parties and within political parties, and in election committees and so forth. Unfortunately, someone deliberately drew attention to this fact that in itself is dangerous because it's crazy that someone is obstructing the elections, and here we are, a little under this pressure, some political parties have openly admitted here that because of this pressure they have entered into this story that has been shortened, that we have come only to the law, and have not contributed to a comprehensive reform of electoral legislation as much as possible to eliminate these things that I have spoken of. Unfortunately, we haven't eliminated them, and Mrs. pak obviously wants the election at all costs aware that these things will continue to be repeated and obviously she doesn't mind it, and as soon as it doesn't bother her, she obviously doesn't have the strength to change anything in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19601	Thank you. Dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19602	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So, for me, the key thing is that we're going to have this bill, so we're going to solve a key dilemma, which is that we're going to have this year's elections. So I don't see anything essential that's different from what we had before and I think on that... we should, and here's the discussion we're closing today. I'm glad that, here, there's a broader support for one of these proposals, because it's actually that intensity, to hold elections this year. And that is why he would suggest to his colleagues Živković, therefore, that he does not open these additional interpretations – what happens when the Constitutional Court makes a decision, what is the role of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is the deadline when we need to act and whether the Constitutional Court can delete something or not. So I invite you to remain in this sense at this intensity to finish this issue today and finally resolve this dilemma to support the general elections this year, and that our energy, I think we should have done it before, so we're turning in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19603	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19604	I thank the chairman. Well, the SBB's view that it would fully support this point just as we supported the SDS proposal, which also allowed elections to be held. And the basic intensity in this section is that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not commented but that we spend them as soon as possible and allow them to be implemented and voted in the House of Representatives. That's one thing. And the second thing, that those we have to implement do not create any tension within Parliament, but that they are simply binding whether through one or another proposal we will receive, or implement those judgments, whether, if not in the first part of the implementation of certain judgments and changes, whether in the second part we will supplement some items, but it is important at this point that the elections will take place in the course of 19 2014 and that we reject this possibility. And I welcome here and the efforts of the SDS that triggered this wheel, so to speak, and the SNSD that united this part to get this law in its proper form and to simply enable and maintain the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19605	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19606	I thank the chairman. Well, here, on the background of fellow Đugum, Šepić, and others, I want to say and repeat what I said every time we talked about this topic, which is that maintaining or not maintaining choices from the very beginning is an artificial dilemma. And in a number of statements in which I have also made colleagues, but I speak now for myself, every time I have pointed out that from no MPs of any party I have ever heard anyone propose laws with or without points that are controversial for a reason to extend the elections. So that's from the beginning of the artificial dilemma. And I'm glad that we're going to put an end to this, and by doing that, we're going to close the story that I think is needlessly used to politicize. We have had three solutions in the procedure when we talk about the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, two in the House of Representatives, one in the House of Peoples. All three solutions were supported by the SDP club because their essence was to resolve the Constitutional Court ruling. Which of them is better, which is worse, it is a matter of individual assessment, with comments that material error has been made in one of the three solutions offered because cities in the RS have been forgotten. Like I said, we had three solutions. What we're voting on today is the one that will run the fastest way through the goal and be adopted as well as the colleagues who spoke before me and myself personally, and also colleagues at the SDP Club, it's nice to put an end to the story today and remove all the possibilities for even speculation about postponing the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19607	Thank you. My colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19608	Here, what's very important is that we from the SDS have come to the finish line and what's most important for us here is that we get changes and additions and that we've made a solution to the Electoral Law. And what's, uh, very nice for all of us, is that we're all going that way and that's going to be settled. However, what my friend Kalabić said, which is very interesting, which is – the commission formed by the Parliamentary Assembly for the election, i.e. for amendments and additions to the Election Law, does not work. Here, I'm a member of that committee, so I don't know who to ask, why isn't it built, that someone gives me an answer, who obstructs the constitution of that commission, who's the goal of being obstructed, and when are we going to start working on that commission? Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19609	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I will. In order to address one speculation about not holding the elections, another speculation has been that someone is obstructing the formation of a commission, let me inform you that yesterday at the College has been insisted by the Council of Ministers to send their proposals to form this commission. And the Council of Ministers sent its three proposals yesterday, so tomorrow it's scheduled, I think, at 9 or 9:30 p.m., to form that commission. For that reason, I think it's enough to stop speculation about here with any kind of obstructions, rather than get back to work, a job that has its own professional and political form. I was talking about my professional form here, saying that BiH is a young democratic state in which the law has begun to be written here in the Parliamentary Assembly and that we do not have clear criteria on how it is done. That wouldn't be a problem in England to say what's going on with the members of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, who put out of force. Are they deleted, are they considered to no longer exist, or is that the task of this Parliamentary Assembly? I think, and this will probably also show the Legislative Legal Committee and the Council of Ministers, and later and in the work of this Assembly, that these members of this Skuštin must either delete or say that it is changing and said. That's my attitude. We'll see how it goes in the future. Let the prime ministers speak their views, and we'll see who's right. On the other hand, one of the political important things is here, that someone wanted to say and run the goal of breaking the laws of the RS. And I understand fellow Federation colleagues even congratulating the SDS's proposal that by breaking the RS law, they want to run the target. However, we from the RS will never let the SDS run through the goal of breaking the law from the RS, and you can scare whoever you want, and scare the Sejdic-Finci and see if we go through the goal. Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19610	Well, I think it's too much of what you've been saying, colleague Živković, and we don't pay any more attention to these discussions of yours, because they're no longer interesting to anyone, and trust the citizens of the RS, that what we do here and this is how we shoot and replicate, it's no longer interesting to anyone because we all know what the situation is in both the RS and BiH as to the economy, business and that sort of thing. And that's what we should be dealing with. But what I wanted to tell you was to thank you. Because for two months, Parliament has made a decision on this committee that I was just talking about, and I have received today's response from you that it has been obstructed by the Council of Ministers. And here's what you're saying is that tomorrow's committee is scheduled. I, as a member of the commission, didn't get the call, but I hope to get it today, and the answer I expected to get from you, so it's the Council of Ministers who obstructed this commission's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19611	Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19612	...adjustment of an incorrect allegation. So, our motives, when we supported the law proposed by the SDS, were absolutely not about will or desire and expectations to trample on the laws of the RS, of course not about any law, because we simply respect all laws, of course including the laws of the RS. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19613	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19614	Thank you. My replica is sent to my esteemed colleague from the club. You see, dear colleague, I don't think the Council of Ministers is obstructing the adoption of this election law and the formation of a commission, because as the Honorable Finance Minister, Mr Nikola Špirić, said yesterday, there is one supinity in the country of the ruling six-way leader who is blocking both the Council of Ministers and Parliament's work. So, the administration is responsible for everything, according to Mr. Špirić. Another thing I'd like to rephrase to you, dear colleague, is what Mr. Živković said, because you remember this morning that you and I at the club bet how much we're going to hear insults today, ugly words from the SNSD Club at the expense of the SDS, and I got a bet.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19615	You deal with it in the party. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am in Parliament for eight years, and I have really not heard any insults that would call for disdain, which would cause the session to leave, which would cause frustration with anyone. But I want to rephrase to my esteemed colleague, Babalj, when he replicated you, not to defend you, but rather to you by referring to Mr. Kalabić, me, Mr. Prodanović, Mr. Tomić and Mr. Bursać, the esteemed colleague Majkić and the esteemed Milica Marković, so to the complete SNSD Club. And like him, nothing matters what he says. Well, now I'm asking you a question - when nothing matters to you that you answer at all? Nothing matters to you, and you don't talk. And everyone on the number, as they say, is calm. But it's important for you to tell them. I'm sorry I'm not parsing you for family reasons, so I'm gonna find out. I'm your aunt, but I won't abuse it. Well, that's what you know. I can't get used to it somehow, and I'm an older man than he is, nothing matters to him, but it's very important that through the form of what doesn't matter to him, he's accused of SNSD. I have begged them ten times, here I will look in the stenogram whether it may be 15 times, so do not transfer the atmosphere from RS to the BiH Parliament. Niko one sitting there in the National Assembly is an MP, I'm an MP here and tell me if I was wrong. And when you refer the line to Mr. Živković, I don't believe that one lawyer should be able to answer you from Mr. Živković, but he won't waste his time to suit you because it's more pointless, that it always suits you and you don't respect anything. So it's a waste of time. And now, you've found a position to get through what we're looking for, to adopt the electoral law as soon as possible, because we're not making obstructions, so that you, BN television, don't know when there's first news, publish it, because it's your medium, how SNSD performed under the cloak is not against the election, and everything is working to stay in power for four years. There's been a change, no election law, there's going to be another four years on behalf of the SNSD, because I'm not going to be a candidate, it's going to be the ruling SNSD party. Whatever you do, take that television, every night you're the editors of the diary, the leaders, the guests, the audience, the ones who answer and text you, you're not going to take down the SNSD, so do what you want. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19617	Thank you. Mato Frajičević colleague, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19618	Your Honor, Mr. President. You know that, in similar cases, HDZ representatives have so far been against amendments to the Election Law that will not be complete and will not completely remove unconstitutional, all non-constitutional elements of the Election Law. Of course, it is clear to us that these incomplete amendments to the Electoral Law, which, according to us, will once again remove all the unconstitutional elements from it, will still happen. It will allow elections to be held, which eventually no one could seriously question. I just want to say that HDZ is very important to allow the elections to be held in October this year for reasons that I do not have to state and which, hopefully, are known in light of the facts, are the real facts that HDZ does not participate, despite the results it has achieved in the last general elections, in the Federation of BiH government, as well as at some other levels. However, I think it is very important that, when we talk on this topic, we send a message that we are except for the fact that we are able to hold general elections, that we are also in a strong mood to make as many changes to electoral legislation as possible that will remove all non-constitutional elements from the Election Law and that will ensure that the results of the electoral process are more consistent with the electoral will of all peoples and of all citizens in BiH. In this regard, I will propose a conclusion that is approximately on this trail and which could read like this – The House of Representatives asks that the Interresor Working Group for amendments to the Election Law as soon as possible start with the work that should result from the proposal for amendments to the Election Law which will mean a comprehensive reform of electoral legislation, with the total removal of all non-constitutional elements, and ensuring that the results of the election process correspond to the electoral will of all peoples and citizens to the greatest extent.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19619	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19620	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. For starters, we would like to begin by thanking Mr Bećirović for his part of the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives, we wish you many successes in this period ahead of you. And let me say in this tone on behalf of the representatives of the SBB that today's day and the discussion that was partly about this agenda point is an indication of the possibility that in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH we can, with the culture of dialogue, with responsibility and knowledge of what our task is, with less or more painful denials and knowledge that everything is not exactly what we wanted and we created, do what is important to the citizens of BiH. And therefore, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today may be the day on which the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives, will earn respect for the citizens of BiH for its responsibility in knowing that the elections will take place in October 2014. Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19621	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the discussion. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 61st session of the House held on 30.12.2013. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered the report on 17 January 2014. There were no amendments. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Bill on the Rights of Cake Victims – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19624	Here, very briefly. I am fully aware that we are discussing the report today. However, it is still not possible to discuss it, and I believe it will be possible, because there are no arguments which give a negative opinion, but it is indicated that this argument will be presented at the Parliament's session itself, so there will be opportunities to talk about it as well. Don't mind me saying a few words, so use your time. So, this law that we are considering today is the result of a multi-year effort of the NGO sector directed towards BiH institutions, requiring the BiH Parliament to enter into the law-making process. The NGO sector, therefore, sent this type of demand, proposals, etc., to all MPs in both Houses of Parliament on several occasions. Over the last year, we tried to initiate this kind of activity through parliamentary issues, unfortunately without success. And at the end of the year, we have chosen 24 to take on the role of the promoter, so to make ourselves available to these demands. What we could do, therefore, is positioning the possibility of proposing laws and our two hands for this initiative. So, we delivered this law to all the parliamentary clubs before he went into procedure, delivered it to the Council of Ministers, the Resoring Ministry etc., unfortunately we had no answers. We have assumed the role of the promoter convinced of the obligation and the possibility of the state, therefore BiH, to ensure in a unique way the right to access justice and to provide equal compensation to all its citizens, i.e. all rights on this basis. No other level of government, in our opinion, can do that. We also think we owe it. The least we can do is give in to the recognition, understanding and relief of the lives of those categories and members of their families. That is what Article 2 obliges us to do. The BiH Constitution, which concerns human rights and fundamental freedoms, where BiH has pledged to ensure respect for the highest internationally recognised rights and fundamental freedoms. The victims of torture are protected by a series of international conventions, declarations, pacts, etc., and are also referred to by so-called "the" so-called "tortures". international imperial norm. The principles on which he rested are very simple. So, the principle of registration, so in one place through entity records etc., appropriate procedures with criteria etc., come to an exact number and have it in one place within the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. The second principle is reparation, the principle of reparation, so the compensation of immaterial damage. And the third principle is the principle... Of course, all these things can be discussed, solutions etc. The initiators and creators of this law, therefore the NGO sector, associations headed by the BiH Campers' Union in communication with the regular ones, have shown absolute readiness and understanding for the country's current economic social situation in terms of height and costs related to the implementation of this law. So, I've abused a little bit, we're discussing a negative report, and I'm ending up in a way that I ask MPs not to support this negative report today and give an opportunity for a serious dialogue, a serious effort that would result in the state's relationship with these people, because these categories are practically the only categories that are not, either insufficiently or only partially treated in laws dealing with this problem. So, once again we ask to give the opportunity, to return this report to the commission, and to create a kind of more serious dialogue, consultation, etc., especially with the NGO sector that gathers the victims of torture in the RS area. Although it also has support from the RS for the adoption of this law, I appreciate the need to provide additional types of consultation. For your information, I've been checking the Council of Ministers' 2014 work programme, not predicting the adoption of this law. Is it because he is in the process here already or because there is no consensus about it, so it remains in this Parliament that we should try to pay some attention to these categories. Here, I'm sorry about the abuse maybe a little time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19625	I thank Ambassador Beriz Belkić. The word has a distinguished letter from Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19626	Dear Chairman, allow me to welcome all present. 25 As a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, two days ago there was a session, I supported the principles of this Law and the adoption of this Law is unquestionable, indeed it is a great need for these categories to be introduced into the rights and within the framework of this Law. I am sorry that there was no debate on the Commission so that this way I will ask the promoters to more precisely explain the financial resources for the implementation of this Law and regulations and the financial effects of the Law. So it is really necessary that we have more precise financial obligations that the state will have by adopting this Law and that we have, therefore, a precise assessment of how much the state, entities, cantons will be burdened by the adoption of this Law. We in the SDP have no dilemma here, we are really about this law to come and experience to come out in the light of the day, so we support certainly the law, but this – the need, that the motionor explain to us, uh, unquestionable because we need to know and have information about the number of potential users of this Law and how much they are, means total financial resources needed to realise this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19627	Thank you. The word has a distinguished letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19628	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I have to say that I'm really thrilled with the way our two BiH party colleagues endure, because this seems to me to be the third attempt to put this law in the process, that is, to bring it in. I found a few laws on a similar subject, maybe not literally the same, didn't check it out, but I found it was a third attempt. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry. Secondly, this one, there are really objective reasons why the Law shouldn't, should not be adopted regardless of what it acts to be seen by a large, wide circle of people, but at one point it seems to be reflected by, especially, the NGO sector that is in function of the government sector, that is, it cannot be hidden. Secondly, you have seen and seen that you know that the RS has its own Civil Victims Act. Its implementation is tailored to the financial opportunities of the RS. And given the state of society's suggestion of such a luxurious way as you imagined it, and that's what I'm going to say in further exposure, it's amazing. And let's say that I assume that you, in part, have considered the opinion of this non-governmental sector, but yet there is, this bill is signed by a professor of the Faculty of Economics who I expected would take care of how this reflects on the fiscal stability of this country. So there is no dilemma for me that the law, that it should be supported by the Commission's opinion, is that the principles of the law should not be adopted. And I think it's a good idea for you to send this same proposal through your colleagues to the Federal Parliament, I could almost bet with you that you wouldn't even go to the Federal Parliament. What's really controversial? Article 4 shows that the responsibility for determining the status and recognition of the rights of torture victims in the institutions of the Federation, the RS and Brcko District is an explicit attitude read by the Law. So 26 is their obligation to take care of the stability of their budgets and to behave accordingly. Can I speak, or can you finish, so that I can? The introduction of the number of rights that this Law puts into the light of the day convinces us that the proposer absolutely did not take care of the rationality of the proposed solution. In Article 7, point 2, it is completely, completely impossible to realise, for example, The Law on PIO RS in a completely different way treats the rights of the Law in the Federation of BiH. So, the only thing that I can understand is that you as an opposition party have no obligation to be touched by a state of society or by problems that a law like this could cause. The irrationality of this proposal is reflected in the following. The amount of compensation for campers of 300 marks per day spent in a camp or place of captivity. What country can afford, especially like this, 300 marks a day? I can't believe you, Mr. Belkić, that you are, that you didn't understand that. And it doesn't end there, 300 marks a day with the right to inherit that right. So where does that lead to, which knee? Entities should mean everything they do, and then a commission set up by Parliament with five members who sit, for a term of four years, will be set up to determine how much money it is, priority sent to entities for resolution. Well, I don't really know, uh, if it wasn't for that naive man, he'd be wondering what the prophesyers' intentions really are. And in the end, maybe just in the end, but not least, Article 30, I was just watching how much you estimated it to cost. You haven't evaluated anything, you haven't written how much it takes to realize this law even though it makes sense for such a thing to be written. And secondly, you're asking for the harmonisation of the entity's laws within 120 days with this law, not making sure that the budgets are adopted, that the obligations are planned, we're asking for 120 days to bring you all the laws in line. And finally, this Law has an advantage over all other laws. Well, you'd have made a mess if a law like this had ever passed. I am truly surprised, two MPs who have been in this Parliamentary Assembly for so many years can come out with a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19630	Ambassador Beriz Belkić, business intervention. Which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19631	So, I'm not comfortable with the Rules of Procedure, we're discussing a negative report, I'm saying we go back to the scale of things. The way my colleague Majkić discussed is not in the direction of the report's debate. We haven't even heard the argument yet, but we'll hear it very soon. But two sentences, so it almost turns out that I should apologize to you for suggesting this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19632	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19633	I mean, you've made us feel good, this one seems to have to apologize, I don't know if you've heard what you've been saying. So, our intention, I said very clearly, the first belief that such a law in the state should, so I said what a constitutional basis is and it has passed, is a human intention. We didn't collect political points as opposition, did you notice that we held some press conferences, that we were walking around, that we were talking, etc. "A" we didn't talk, the NGOs said, etc. The promoters mentioned themselves twice, three, in the last few months, and we have been very patiently waiting for this to come to order, and we have been very correct in a few of these sentences that I, with the chairman's apology, said that this was an attempt to talk about this matter, and I made it clear that those who initiated this Law with law and who somehow created it with the help of people who understood these things and worked in our institutions etc., showed absolute willingness to, in some other phase, come to that stage, and why I asked you, talk about economic effects. We can't talk about concrete financial effects because we don't know the exact number of people, but we know some relationships, we know that a day of prison is paid 100 marks, so we don't go to jail. I can't and there's no criteria to assess how much it costs one day trapped past, deprived of freedom beyond my will, etc. I can't do that, uh, people know it best, if it's even money that can be compensated, that's the real question.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19634	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19635	And please, it's okay, I'm begging you, don't do this, because I won't be able to not answer, don't, give an argument can, can't, and plead and it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19636	I thank Mr. Belkić, and I find that this was a business intervention related to article 71 of the derogation from the agenda. The word has a replica of Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19637	I want to say that I don't think I've strayed from the agenda, because the rule would be that the President of the Commission says the reasons why this report got a negative opinion. Then it would be my deviation from that. Since there was no word, I believe, I need to say why I think the Commission report should be accepted. So, I think that's it, that's it. I can't accept taking something into knowledge without knowing why. Secondly, I very much respect the agility of some MPs, but I can't believe we can say we're going to make such a law that who knows how much it's going to cost us, but we can't do it now, we'll see it, because we don't care, it's an entity obligation. That's why I don't think that's a good idea. Because if it were a good intention at least someone would say – so stop, please, the law should apply from some year when budgets need to be planned, not somewhere in the middle of the year we need to adopt the law and we need to get budget cuts. The responsibility of us here, the NGO can say – we have a wish, and we have a wish, but we have to take care of what economic opportunities this country has.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19638	Thank you. The word has a distinguished emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19639	Thank you. 28 I must say, first of all, that this Law reminds me of that Law on Retirement of Soldiers 35 years old, one of the populists that made us all have headaches here afterwards. In fact, not only on the Commission for Human Rights, but also on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I voted against this Law, because I don't think he even has a constitutional basis for adopting this kind of thing because he is in the jurisdiction of the entities in the field of pension and disability insurance, health care and social giving. I'm sorry, I don't know how it was settled in the Federation, but I'm sorry, let's just say, that the Association of Campers in the RS is doing more than anything other than all these years it hasn't worked out that the people in the camp have a work experience, that at least that year they get involved in the work experience, but all that doesn't matter. Furthermore, respected colleagues before me spoke of financial effects. I have to say when I read this Law at my house, I told my people at home – I'm sorry, I have to vote against this one, but I broke out of our pocket 900,000 marks. And my mom answered that – she didn't vote on who's going to pay us? Here, colleague Jovičić, I was counting he would get 400 and a few thousand marks for the camp Silas in which he was the Federation should pay over 100 million, for only one. 70,000 campers in BiH on average, mean on average that they were imprisoned for 90 days, no more, times 300 marks -- 2 billion. I'm asking where? Where to increase pensions from. Here, let's say we will, increase the pension base by 30% when pension-inhabited funds in both entities are already credit-dependent, literally negative, taking loans to pay for pensions. Something like this, I don't think a German economy could stand. One Germany and today pay off the victims of World War II, with its economy, with its economic growth, and it has given them 5,000 marks, it seems to me, the victims of World War II have the right to compensation for 5,000 marks. And we give our victims 400,000 marks. I truly appreciate and feel sorry for these people and for them what they have experienced and survived none, no financial means can compensate and these people should be protected. Include them in society, because they're isolated from society and today, they're on social margins. But I'm afraid this law doesn't solve it. And the one who suggested this, I know that you didn't, that this law came from NGOs and victims of war. One thing is a list of good wishes, and the other is a thing that really can. I think something like this is really inconclusive, unreal, to give us all a lot of headaches. And I have to say this, let it be known, a year ago maybe two and two people in the white world, more specifically in The Hague, it occurred to me that there should be damage to the victims and they came, and I had a conversation with Hague investigators, and they brought out ideas like this in this Law. My answer to that was – great, we'll do it right away, just give donations because this country has no money for such a thing, provide donations when you want and pressure us to do it and there's no problem we'll do it. So this law can't get our support, we won't support it. Any realistic and rational solution we'll support anyway, here's the law foresaw one more thing, there's no solution. Most, I know in the RS, campers have civil war victims' status and have a certain monthly compensation. What are they going to do if they get some money back under this law, will they get back what they get sooner, what they're going to do about it? Some who have been in camps and who are the victims of torture have been compensated by judicial judgments, what are we going to do in that case? These are all legally unforeseeable possibilities. So, they would, they would, and they would, and they'd already charged through the court because they got their judicial convictions and then they'd re-apply this. So that's why I think this law has no constitutional basis, and we can certainly support its principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19640	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19641	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to thank Mr Belkić for one noble initiative and to say right away, that there would be no dilemma, why I voted on the Commission against this law. Because I plead that the law can be supported if representatives of the three constituent nations meet, there were others who were in the camps, and then it is quite irrelevant whether it will be on behalf of those people to submit the initiative of Mr Belkić, me, or I don't know anyone else. But what, in my opinion, I won't say sad and unpleasantly, I'm a man who will never mind anyone, but where do you get from, Mrs. Majkić, that you're my sister and not my club member and my party, the right to judge the victim and assess how much my torture costs, when you have no idea what a camp is? Where did you get Mrs. or dear colleague Pandurević whose parents were in the camp telling you all this, the right to be against this when you weren't in the camp, and your mom and dad were with me in the camp, and that you're assessing whether the value is 900,000 marks, 400 thousand marks? If I, Bog is my witness and not you, because you don't need me and you don't understand my suffering, you give everything I have that I can run two meters, and there's no financial means that I can make up for one day in a camp that I pray to Bog and thank the Gospoda for, and it's not a parliamentary procedure but it is a matter of humanity, that you didn't have such an accident to experience it. One day, some camper who's been through a terrible and shot, abused, and 400 million marks can't bring back his life, not 400,000, or how you judge it. But let me introduce you to what I will do and you, thank Bog, will not decide because you will not even ask anyone in the next session, the Geneva Convention Protocol III has a supermat over the Constitution of BiH as an international convention and it predicts that the state has been obliged to protect its citizens. The state of BiH was also entities at the time, regardless of how we were divided by entities, districts, cantons are not obliged, neither are they entitled, nor are they responsible under international law and under Protocol III of the Geneva Convention that they pay off, that they correspond. Well, all of you who swear that the BiH state is a state, and I respect it, will be sued by me, so the new process, the app has already been prepared, I didn't want to say it today, but you know, it will be instead of Sejdić-sejdić-Finac will be Slavko Jovičić with another team of people, who I only joined myself not to be something important. And here they are not important financial resources, and here it was important to trample on human dignity, humiliation and trauma to families, many victims killed. And the lack of a proposal for this, I say, I repeat, the noble ideas of Mr Belkić and distinguished Professor Hadžiahmetović is that he can be considered as coming as a proposal from the Bosniak Association of Campers, because there is no Srbin representative here, there is no Hrvat. And I'll tell you right now, since I have time to remind you, when I was in the Alliance of the RS Campers, and immediately to say volunteer, I didn't even get the stamps, so you wouldn't say I abused it, I was able to organize ten joint meetings of all three representatives of the association, we were on our way. So here at the last meeting of Parliament, I said -- many political tensions in BiH will fall if Mr Izetbegović, who sat in the place of the distinguished Magazinović, goes along with the representative of the Croatian people, let them choose whom they will, I who was nothing then in a party, who was an ordinary man, a citizen, but here is a representative of two categories, and victims and MPs, to go first to Potocara, and there I was the only one there in 2003, so that the Srbin will determine, there will be no camp in which I was, here is the Sjekovac, that the Hrvat determine the Uzdol or I don't know what they want the place, and we will show ourselves there, representatives of the three people in all three places and pass the crowns, the crowns. This is what people will build BiH, and it will not be the Eternal Fire during some holiday marked by only Bošnjak, which we in RS do not recognise. It divides BiH, I, remember these words of mine, BiH will build when the people see us together representatives of all three peoples and others in one place, when we say – people here are killed by people. When we say in the Potocari - 30 Bošnjak were killed here, when we say in Sekovac - this is where the Srbin died, when we say in Nazdol - the Hrvat died here. Well, they had these people's names and last names, that's what the circumstances changed into today's numbers, and what's the biggest shame by bidding here with 300 marks a day. You're not going to humiliate me as a victim, you're not going to make it up to me, but I beg you, all of you who want to talk, who didn't have that accident, and thank Bog you didn't, that you didn't get involved in this subject, you don't know what suffering was for an hour, not one day or 1,334 days as far as I was. I will not speak to you as a human being, so that I may say: it is a shame to listen to you talking and you have no idea. In the name of whom are you speaking? As messengers, as messengers you can vote for anything, that you are not ashamed of Bog when you have not felt the day of suffering to speak for the victims, it is a shame. So I ask you not to speak on behalf of the victims, that you do not represent yourselves as the great protectors of the people, parties and I do not know who, and that you are expressing concerns about whether BiH will have the money. BiH will lose this dispute in Strasbourg because this Geneva Convention has been a guarantee of human rights, both Joza and Slavuj and Hazim, and all those people who have been imprisoned in the camps you're talking about today, I wanted to report the last one and I couldn't bear to listen to you, not what you're going to hurt me, and you've already done that, but what you're talking about is a subject you have no idea. You haven't even been in any of that space to see what it looks like, is it possible that a man can survive, is it possible to close an animal to survive, not a man? So as friends once again, truly, honestly, believe me what I say – I will not blame any of you, nor will I be angry with, I am a man who is not angry, but I ask you to have consideration for these people. For me, the victim and Sulejman Tihić, my friend, was in the camp, for me the victim of every camper regardless of the prefix of the national and any political party, the place of life. But if you don't know anything about it, here I have to say a little bit sharper, that you're saying whether the value of the day 300 marks is one, who will find the money, it offends the dignity of the people I represent, regardless of whether I'm a messenger, I'm a man talking. I feel sorry for every man and every man in Iraq, because I'm one of the few people who's won their hate because I'm a survivor, hate is a disease. You're not gonna help anything. On my example, and I'll end it, I'll show everyone who abused me there's no judgment to tie them up now, my health won't bring them back, but I don't hate them because I won't get anything from it. I just want the satisfaction of the judicial institutions to show that there was a camp. So please tell me what you want you can't insult me, you can't hurt me, I'll never resent you, I won't be mad at anyone, I'll never tell anyone what you said, what you said, but on behalf of both Bosniak victims and Croatian victims and victims of others, so I'll finally tell the Serbian victims, please don't talk about a subject you don't know anything about. You have no idea what it means to abuse, which means you don't eat anything, which means that someone's forcing you, not to destroy your dignity to shepherd grass, or I don't know what to do, you'll never understand it, and I'm asking Bog you don't understand, but as people, as friends, please don't talk about the subject, talk about financial matters, about these and those suggestions where you're really more directed than me, but about this topic to talk about. You will not hurt me, and I will end up with a sentence: I forgive you everything you say, and in the future whoever reports, I will not blame anyone for all of you as I will see you as my friends, I will greet you all, I will respect you all. And I'm ending up, I said I'm ending up, remember what I'm telling you, Bog is my witness, I won't hold a word against you, I won't say anything bad, I won't even say what I'm supposed to say, because you have no right to talk about it. As MPs, you can vote whatever you want, but, you know, I've announced to you, the verdict will be because the Strasbourg Court does not recognise the discussion of Slavuj or anyone, not to mention that I am not challenging replicas, the Strasbourg Court admits that the BiH state was responsible under the Protocol, I repeat, III to protect the dignity of its citizens. All those in the camp, in the camps for one reason or another, the state has not protected and she is responsible, not one entity is responsible. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19642	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19643	Thank you. Oh, I'm really thinking whether or not I should react to Mr. Jovičić's calling that we don't have the right to talk. You see, Mr. Jovičić, I really don't want to talk about what happened on anyone's behalf, or even on behalf of my family members, but as a man, as an MP, I have a responsibility here to other citizens of the RS. And if I were to vote for this law, and I have no right absolutely to bid on how much it is, as far as the victim and I can't imagine that anyone in this country can put a figure on their victim, whatever it is, it's something that can't be measured by money, immeasurable, but as an MP, I have no right to endanger the interests of other categories of population in the RS. I couldn't be human to be okay with my family, to have some satisfaction, to put 800,000 marks in my pocket, you know what that would mean, that every morning when I get out of my building, I have to meet those pensioners whose pensions are even less, who are going through containers and they don't even have those pensions anymore, I have to meet parents who can't send their kids to colleges for this, and I have to meet those young people who, by adopting this law, because of their financial effects, take every hope of getting a job. So if only I or one category in this society should be well, then we don't need a country like that, and we don't need a country like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19644	Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said at first that I voted against the Commission because it did not cover all categories, so all three representatives of the people, that was my intensity. I asked him not to bid on the unfortunate fates of people through financial means. The second thing is, it's not true that the victims of the RS have earned any rights, it's the most endangered category, because how will they exercise their rights when no one works anywhere, what will they accomplish? He's classified in the category of civilian war victims that doesn't work, no one's taking any fees. So, please don't let the unfortunate fates of people and the severe tragedies that have left serious consequences for people's health, younger categories mentally, thank Bog, so I'm not here to represent myself, which I have physical problems I can't now, no one can return to me and I won't talk about myself. But neither will Miss Pandurević nor Slavuj because I will not be interested in this verdict, if I stay alive, in Strasbourg, because all international conventions on my part and I am not interested in anyone else and I am not interested in money because I cannot return health, I am interested in someone confessing in the world, and then first this state that there were camps for Srbin, as I admit there were camps for Bosniaks, as I say there were camps for Hrvat. But this country has not said a single politician, not a single Bosniak representative, except for a few of my colleagues here, who I have always stayed grateful to and remembered the names they have said – our friend Slavuj was in the camp. But that's what's been said here for a pay phone that doesn't matter to me, it's important to me to my whisperers. Not that I'm fighting for their rights, but that the state admits, and she's the only one responsible, but I said, under Convention III of Geneva, which is stronger than all the constitutions, that the state has not protected the rights, the human rights of its citizens. That's 32 essentials. This decision will not be declared by this Parliament, no MP will be declared, no one will plead, but the verdict will arrive, as it has arrived from Strasbourg Sedic-Finci so sometimes we have to implement it, no matter how much time we ask for it, four or five years, it will be carried out, and this one, I will submit and has already been prepared, I just haven't said when the date is, and if I am not alive until then, I will empower someone to represent that verdict to come to Parliament when perhaps none of my colleagues will be here. BiH will be obliged to acknowledge that these people have been illegally closed. Whether it will be material compensation is irrelevant and least important.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19646	Dear colleague Milica Marković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the proposal for this law from previous discussions shows and demonstrates that for such laws or the bill, the proposer that puts them in the procedure had previously had to provide very broad and convincing support and consensus for all those who should declare this and vote on this. Why? Because this is one of the few laws that treats one of the most sensitive categories and the proposer is in this way, therefore, not providing the previous consensus and consent of most political parties in this House, or at least those that should give to the majority and support it, knowingly risked and unfortunately, and managed to bring us here today to the point where we have a proposing who says that he has a list of good wishes and was initiated by the attitude of the NGO and NGOs in order to refer one of these draft laws to the procedure, on the one hand. On the other hand, MPs who cannot today support such a bill for reasons that previous speakers have already pointed out, and most of all from the financial and material and burdens of entity budgets and other reasons which have not been stated here so far. So, to put ourselves in a situation where we reject this bill for the reasons mentioned above, which has brought us into this situation a party which, by the way, belongs to the least number of MPs, who is in opposition and has no responsibility for burdening entity budgets, whom this is, and as far as I remember, a second or third attempt to use the most sensitive topics in the voting body, such as this Law, such as in some previous period was the proposal for a law on the denial of genocide and similar categories. So this way, by treating and catching on to issues like this, he's trying to get a voter's body in front of the elections right now to say, "Here we have it, we've sent it to the procedure, but some others won't vote for it and support it." That is why I would like to say that the Commission's opinion that rejected this law has been given a negative opinion on this bill is fully justified and reasonable. So, not from constitutionals, from being constitutionally unfounded, but for principled reasons. And all of what we've said so far and what we're going to say about this predlog is actually the principles of this law, which is why the SNSD can't support this bill. About financial and material aspects, and not support, I won't talk about it because it's said a lot, but I want to point out a few things that I've noticed in the proposal for this text, which I think would be very, very negative in our society. First of all, the Proposer suggests here somewhere in the end that this Law is put above all other laws and somehow gets the category of the position of a specialist, which is not addressed as such and is not treated in its proposal in the formulation in which it is given. So he puts all the other laws aside, and this is some law that has the greatest advantage. I think it's totally unacceptable, because it's not even formulated as a alloy, and it can't be asked to treat it that way, and basically 33 is required to treat it that way. On the other hand, I think he is very discriminatory, because here it is said that, even what my colleague Majkić said, it is no longer known to which knee it goes that family members and their heirs have the right to seek their claims under this Act, and that someone who has been in criminal proceedings, as they say, that here I am now not quoting, that I am taking time, members, says – who has been in criminal proceedings allegedly because of some war crimes and their family members do not have such rights at the time of supporting these consequences of judicial judgments. Or let's say that this Law, this Law, cannot be called to categories treated by the Missing Persons Act. So now that the family say where the head of that family, the father, the husband, has disappeared and, say, it's been 20 years and it's still not found today, his children have no right to refer to this law, and they are, say, victims of what their father has disappeared and what he hasn't been able to do, he's still not found where he is and they can't get to him. That's the first thing. The second thing, based on that Missing Persons Act, was formed, or a missing persons search institute was formed in connection with that law. Who today can force in these BiH authorities, from the BiH authorities, who can force the Institute to do what is expected and that the Institute is doing. What he should do on justice and finding victims, creating reconciliation in this society, none of it works, and families are still victims of what the Institute didn't do their job and who knows when they'd do it. And we have a situation that RS representatives must leave the meetings and board of directors of the Institute. So, I think this is very superficial and that this is one of the populist laws, so just for the purpose and in order to court the voting body, and I know that, I should bet that even the promoter wasn't safe, or he knew that he couldn't get this kind of support in Parliament, but it's important to talk about it that they wanted something. And if I weren't to tell you about it now, Mr. Belkić, when you explained that, here you were initiated by the NGO, by the NGOs, and that, I'd like you to tell me what an NGO in the category that treats this RS law was working with you when you made this bill. If this is a list of those NGOs on the postcard we got in RS for January 09, then it's better that you didn't mention it, because it's a real argument if it's anything else... it's a real argument, if these NGOs asked for this law to be passed better if you didn't mention it today. Because we can stand and accept for everything else, we can't bear it, that these very NGOs are looking for this Law and that's why we would refuse it, that I'm not talking about the sea of other reasons why we think it should be rejected. So, I think that we today, and we call on you to support the Commission's negative opinion on the proposal of this law, rather than from the lengths of responsibility, both for us from the RS and for the Federation parties who would make the adoption of such a law a mess in the government of the Federation, in the Budget of the Federation as well as the chaos in the budget and in the Government of the RS. And out of that responsibility, therefore, I do not need parties who exercise power on either entity or on another entity to support this bill, and the populist laws and populist demagogy and what similar stories there have been and will always be. Those who bear no responsibility for nothing, which are opposition, of course they can afford that luxury to say, here's what we're going to suggest, so whatever it is. We, therefore, from the RS for the sake of responsibility and the sea of other reasons cannot support this bill, and perhaps the main reason behind this is that this Law has no support and a broader consensus on its content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19648	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19649	I thank the chairman. I have a short replica. It's hard to hear on the grounds that some bill is a list of good wishes. It's really hard to hear no matter who gave it, and we absolutely can't talk like that. This is our responsibility. Whether the approach is adequate, we can discuss it, whether the way the proposed bill is adequate, we can discuss it, but it's not a list of nice desires. That's the obligation of BiH. And we can't discuss this obligation in this way or do, so to speak, a complete invitation for all of us to vote against, because we're going to cause chaos in the Federation or in the RS. We've made a mess with people, their families, their offspring who have been in camps and have the right to compensation. Let's ask a question what if they initiate a lawsuit under the Geneva Convention? Then what will happen to us? Then where were we? I call here to one reason, to reason in solving this problem. In what way will it be resolved, how much damage will be planned, how it will be paid, the modals between us are in agreement between all of us, and between entities and at the level of the state. But we must approach solving the problem and what people really have the right to do under international law, or according to the Convention, we must fulfill it because we are the signatories of this Convention. And please just don't go to the part where anyone, any proposal, any effort to solve certain problems, is qualified in a way that is very often used in this House. This is our obligation, we must fulfill it today or tomorrow, this assembly, next, or another. Either they realize that court or we find strength, human responsibilities, tolerances and we can solve this in any way. There are satisfactions, whether it's cash or whatever, but we're here to discuss it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19650	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19651	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I didn't, so I couldn't bear to discuss the category that really suffered torture in this way, so in a recent history in the former Yugoslavia's space, and I've been thinking about it, as well as today BiH. What I said to the former Yugoslavia, one of my parliamentary issues was – whether the Council of Ministers, that parliamentary majority, is going to propose a Law on the Protection and Rights of Political Prisoners, means at the time of the former Yugoslavia. Just to remind you that these political prisoners in neighbouring countries have received adequate compensation and certain rights for what they have spent on the gol island, and various naked islands, which they have just said something. I think BiH, and especially when we are talking about this kind of human and necessary law for the categories that have lived through, which we were told here at one point by our distinguished colleague Slavko Jovičić. And that this is how we're discussing this law, how much it's gonna cost, and if this should be at all. We should have done this a long time ago, this is a BiH obligation, and it's not an entity. And it doesn't have to be asked whether it's 300 marks, or 100, or 30 marks. But in any case, it's not that either... these people are walking today from the merciless to the unloved, they don't even have health insurance, they have to be treated. Well, when they're in a lot of pain, they sort of manage or cheat on the Bureau and come up with a health card to sort that out. 35 We have solved these institutions both in the federal budget and in the RS budget. Many who enjoy various rights on a variety of grounds and should not enjoy them. And these people who are recorded, recorded there, and we're asking here today a key question of how much it's going to cost. Well, the promoter couldn't tell you how much it would cost, he couldn't say objectively. And that ultimately, we need to get to the final number, to all those who were torture camps, who were trapped from every nation and everyone else, and then possibly talk about the figures that would bring it up. And I'm not for what it says there is 300 marks, I don't know if it can, but maybe, for the sake of satisfaction, it'll be 50 or 30 or less, but either way. It's good that this is a topic, it's good that it's in Parliament, and we can't wait for this on a knife that doesn't need it, that it's not an obligation. This is among other things our obligation and the Council of Europe has accepted various declarations of which we are a member, which was proposed before the session or two by counterpart Franjičević, when it comes to the declaration of condemnation of the regimes for which people suffered. Here's our Parliament didn't have the strength to bring one such declaration, as brought by the Council of Europe, I say whose member we are. And that's why we need both courage and determination, this is an interesting topic, and this is not what I believe no pre-election tricks, pre-election games, so whatever it is proposed by the party that's in the opposition today, it'll probably be in position next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19652	Thank you. You're a little over the top, but good. Dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19653	Well, what my colleagues put out as a replica after my discussion isn't really a real replica, because it's just incomprehensible what they're trying to say, except that I realized that they appeared in the form of a replica to say because it's probably a long time for them to wait for the discussion to discuss in the regular procedure. But I did answer for an explanation of what I discussed. So here it is now confirmed that the proposer has consciously brought us all into a situation that the ones who support the law tell me because of that and we support it, and we who cannot support that we are allegedly, we do not understand the human reasons and arguments that you are making. Well, your argument, now I'll be even more specific, your argument that you're asking to support this law is a real demagogy. Now, let's call things a real name, it's a real classic demagogy because you're calling for some human aspects to provide this category with what's required in the law. And is it humane now that I, as an MP, would propose a law to provide this state or entity budgets for 550,000 unemployed persons in BiH to be provided to them, besides having health care, to have a certain material compensation that will provide a man with a life worth living, such as in Switzerland. And what would you say then, so we can't do it, we're not Švajcarska, that's one Switzerland can do but BiH can't. And we have these human reasons because you have young people up to 30 who, first of all, are unable to start a family, can't start a marriage and a family because they have no business. So you don't have any more human reasons. You have young people who fall into mental and depressed states and commit suicide because they have no business, no family, no perspective in this society. Are human reasons to say entities or this state provides that women, we are constantly called upon to be threatened in the whole society, that mothers who give birth to 3, 4 and more children have compensation and insight into the employment and material assistance because they are giving birth, which increases the birth rate in this society. That would say -- you can't know, it could be some society 36 that's economically and financially stable, where BiH's society is going to provide it, so we don't have the money for it. Well, that's all human reasons. And that's why I called in to say that it's a classic demagogy that you're calling for on the basis of this argument that this law is supported, and you're aware of yourself, you're very aware, but this is a pre-election year, you're aware that this law will do, as my colleague Majkić said, a great insult and a great confusion and turbulence in the budget and the Federation and the RS, and that's why we can't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19654	I am aware that in each assembly MPs need to spend a certain part of their time in one law, even though we do not stick to the agenda, I am trying to end it on this Law and that those other points of the agenda are going a little faster. If it's okay with you, here's how I'm gonna let the discussion be conducted, even though we're talking about a negative Commission opinion. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19655	I'm sorry, but I have to react. My replica was just on a sentence that said this was a list of good wishes, and I don't accept this as a list of good wishes, but I didn't call for this law to be passed, but I said we had an obligation to finish these things and do it inside BiH. And it's absolutely unacceptable, fellow Members, to then call this demagogy, because it's only referred to your spoken word that this is a list of beautiful desires. If we go to these other categories, if you're saying we're calling for humanity and this and that, I'll just point out to you, the conversation of philosophers and mathematicians what a good man means, he says – a good man is a moral man and therefore gives him a unit, educated, adds zero, he's 10, he's successful, adds zero, so he's 100, but he says in the end – if he doesn't have a first unit everything is zero. We too must be educated, cultural, but first moral to accept our responsibility to the citizens in such a way that in a moral way we resolve this among ourselves and in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19656	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Well, I'll just say it briefly, because most of the speakers before me said what I was going to say. Merđutim, it is quite clear that human rights violations in BiH as well as in any other country fall within the scope of violation of the basic... The Declaration of Human Rights. It means one universal category, not only here in BiH but also in all other countries of the world. If we had some etalon to measure human suffering, maybe it would be good at this point, maybe we could measure it and say that the etalon is standing in Paris and we're going to measure human suffering on that floor. But we don't have the standard to measure it. I fully understand a colleague of Jovičić's who was recently very inspired in one of his own, as I would say, as a wolf's populi, here brought his sufferings to us all from his corner, as one man who suffered torture, which 37 is one victim of torture of all those similar cases in BiH. On the other hand, if we had such a discussion, how much human suffering costs, it wouldn't be regular or nice, it wouldn't be ethical, it wouldn't be moral. This would be part of some philosophical abstract theory, debates about ethics, morals, and it's really not appropriate to talk about it this way. The proposal for this legislation on torture victims in BiH, a BiH party colleague, I see as one proposal to discuss the issue. Of course, human rights violations should be discussed both in BiH and in every part of the world where such rights are violated. I'm sorry no one participated in this, so the sector, I don't think the representatives of the RS took part, and that's not a good message. We cannot, therefore, say these are BiH NGOs, not BiH NGOs, mostly NGOs from the Federation of BiH participated. I don't think it's good to share the victims, the victims of the Federation of BiH and the victims of the RS, because their suffering is truly universal. People can't measure it with money or anything. And completely, and I say again, I am completely focusing again on the discussion of my colleague Jovičić who said there is no such money that can be paid for the day of someone's suffering. It doesn't exist. It's really something that we all have to understand. The law cannot, like, mean an MP from the RS, at this time support for the various reasons that we have already stated before, means because he would make implications, certain turbulences, if we even say, although it is cruel for me to say, both financially and all others. On the other hand, it represents one transfer of jurisdiction from the RS's point of view. Why? Because of course this law is affecting the issues of pension-involvement protection, the Law on Civil Victims of War in the RS, because we in the RS have passed a Civil Victims of War Act which, among other things, treats the issue...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19658	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19659	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19660	I didn't tell you. I told you to keep your voice down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19661	The Civil War Victims Act of the RS treats certain issues mentioned here. I'm not saying he's enough, he needs to be finished, but that's what we in the RS are going to do and I think we have quality solutions to that. So the law I can't support and that's what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19662	The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here, to say that the SDA Club supports the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims, and for these reasons we will vote against the Commission's negative opinion. We don't think this is a populist law, this is a law that should eliminate the presence of discrimination against BiH citizens. And here, today's discussion on this agenda point or time spent on this agenda point suggests that we should still have so much courage, give the Commission a positive opinion and open this story. Because one thing it says in the text of the Law, here we have heard other opinions of people or MPs in 38 of these parliamentary benches, but that means that we should have given this law an opportunity to talk about it, that if we should be treated in a different way through amendments, but essentially to achieve that basic goal, which is that at this point he removes one discrimination present in the Bosnian Herzegovina public. We can't get away from her. For this reason, we are in the Party Club against this negative opinion and we think we should open a serious dialogue in which, which would result in a correct relationship of the state against these categories. I don't think we should be burdened with fear and worry about what the financial effect will be, that is, the entity's relationship to the victims, that is, the users of this law. In the end, this is a matter that needs to be cared for by the state, not entities. And I'm a little worried or I don't know, I'm going to point out one fact why I'm so worried about the RS. I mean, at the very least when we add, or when we do an analysis, or when we establish the final number of torture victims, we'll see that the Federation will have the biggest problem in that financial sense. So let's get away from these daily stories, let's as elected representatives of the people and citizens in this House respond to the obligation, and today through this legal solution it's called removing discrimination, entering into one procedure of talks on this Law, so if I have to, I say once again, and through the amendment phase in open dialogue to come to a final solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19664	Thank you. The following came to the discussion with the second deputy chairman, distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19665	Thank you. So, about this law, I'd like to say a few words. First, it's not good to discuss whether laws should be proposed at all or not. Each MP in the House of Representatives is a privileged legitimate proposer. In that sense, our colleagues here have proposed one of the laws. How most people in this House are going to show themselves is a different story. But we should always respect every MP's right to have the opportunity to propose those laws and those legal acts that he considers important. In particular, I think it's important that they have an opportunity for people who are in opposition. I think they have even more reason to propose such laws, even those that are not realistic to the given economic situation, but it is their legitimate right and we have to get used to it. Reading the contents of this Law, and also because of the fact that I was familiar with the content of this Law before it entered the parliamentary procedure, there is no doubt here, I believe that at least we will all agree that, in essence, when you look at the intensity of this law, one is an honest and noble intention. The second question is, what are the financial opportunities of this country and what are the modalities to really work this idea out to bring it back to life in practice. I also reported because he rightly spoke to a whole series of MPs about the responsibility of the BiH state. We here in the future have to make one balance, between what is the responsibility of the BiH state versus many international conventions, many of them are part of our constitutional justice system, and of what are the mechanisms of that state to stop all those forms of human rights violations within the BiH state. So there must be some balance. We can't just say the state is responsible, and that this state has no mechanisms to regulate certain things within state territory in such a way that it is fully consistent with human rights. And I must say that, besides all the debaters here, for me, it's an encouraging approach, I stress the approach, fellow Slavko Jovičić, who survived what he survived, but not from any of his discussions today, nor from previous sessions, we've ever seen any hatred shine out of him, any revenge. Often here he mentions the word "crucial" for this country, "forgiveness" etc. That's the kind of approach I want to publicly support. /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19666	Dear counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović is next for the discussion, otherwise the legislator of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19667	I thank the chairman. Well, I must mention, at first, that part of the argument that I was going to say at the very beginning was presented by my predecessor, i.e. my colleague Bećirović, although I am surprised that as a member of the College he did not intervene when there was a discussion about whether anyone could even propose some laws. But here, then, we understood why your intervention was, and here I want to express my first dissatisfaction that, when someone has no arguments, we have held back that we are reacting to or reacting to the status of the party, the ethnicity of the promoter, etc., what today was the word, although here we have not, we have refrained from reacting through replicas or anything else, to regulate their status here, because our intention was not by any chance to propose this law to achieve any effect except that one category, which is in an unfair position in this country, regulate their status, to balance their status if in an unequal way regulated in a complex BiH system, to register, i.e. to provide a basis for the registration of people who need to have an adequate and equal status regardless of entity, ethnic, party, etc., to respond to the need to the need to be answered by the International Convention, to explain why we spoke to Slavko Jovičić. I must mention that there was really no other intention of the motionor. If anyone has a problem with the name of the promoter, which according to our Rules of Procedure must be when the laws are proposed, here's if there's a business opportunity to delete our names. If anyone wants to be here, they can put their name there. Everyone had a chance and everyone had a chance. Let me rephrase this, my colleague Belkić said at the very beginning and explained how we approached this previous one, to say, the procedure, perhaps unusually, that this bill was addressed to all MPs' clubs and the Council of Ministers before it was officially submitted to the procedure. So, I want to mention, what we least wanted to do is here in this House we insult each other, both personally, and partyically, and nationally, etc. Our intention was indeed to open the debate first and come up with a solution. Of course, we did not prejudge that these solutions are the best possible solutions. Today, there have been talk of some details here, it seems to me too much, although it was necessary to talk about a negative report from the commission. But it's quite understandable why we didn't talk about the 40 negative Commission reports. Because look at the negative report of the commission. There was a lot of talk about jurisdiction, so let me also read a part of this report.... Proposal for a law on the rights of torture victims in line with the BiH Constitution. Here, therefore, the constitutional basis of this law has been challenged in terms of jurisdiction and jurisdiction. If we have two constitutional committees who have given their opinion, here is a part of this Commission's negative report. And secondly, it stands - after the debate, the Joint Commission did not accept the principles and members of the committee who voted against will present their reasons at the sessions. I ask you to refuse such a negative report from the Commission. And any such negative report from the commission. Do we have a committee here and one argument, not members of committees who think in the way they've been saying today? Why didn't we get some arguments in front of the Commission, so we agreed or disagreed with those arguments, but some arguments that were managed by the commission when this proposal was rejected. I ask you to reject such a negative report from the Commission, regardless of what anyone thinks about this law and some solutions. I want to mention that it's not real, even though some discussions deserve to be referred to in some way. There's been a lot of talk about the details here, but on many occasions there's a detail about the finances, whether we have the money, our budgets. Mrs. Majkić even expressed surprise that one of the promoters, as a professor at the Faculty of Economics, has threatened fiscal stability with this proposal. Mrs Pandurević mentioned other categories that she must think of other categories, pensioners, etc. Here, I'll tell you as an economist, put it on the scale, even though I don't prejudge that these are good solutions at all, but put on the scale of how much the existing solutions cost. What is the price of an alternative to 12,000 lawsuits that are under way with a possible and certain outcome? So let's even see the cost of costing. But it wasn't our intention to talk about it. Our intention was to open up a process of solving this problem for which even those who, today with increased temperatures and emotions and full of their national and I don't know which party enthusiasm they discussed in the way they discussed, should appear with some solutions, suggest other solutions in the amendment phase, suggest a different law tomorrow, etc., but let us regulate the status and regulate them equally in this country that all have equal human rights and ultimately respond to the obligations we have under international conventions. In that sense, it was our intention, indeed without any other intention, even though we were respected, firstly that we were already, I don't know how many times we proposed this law. This is the first time we've proposed this one, only it's... on these issues, so maybe they've remembered some other draft laws. And while they are already talking about some amount or in the context of the upcoming elections, etc., here is to answer them – we have proposed these laws when we were in this House both stronger and more numerous than today are the parties of those MPs who are today... here in this Parliament. But let's not just count ourselves like that and discuss one matter that deserves really special, special attention. The least he deserves are those arguments that some have managed today, suggesting he will not support such a bill. I just want to mention it would really be my special pleasure to hear the arguments that they will be led by supporting such a negative Commission report. In that sense, it is my appeal that we think carefully. We don't prejudge that these solutions are good and that there may be better, but let's give it a chance, but don't act like an owl that's none of our business and that we're making some kind of call arguments that aren't actually. I want it at the end, here's the discussion, I hope it won't be, here's what I think if there's any more arguments that were our intentions we can give them, but it's not really our intention to irritate anything. As promoters, we appeal to you to solve this problem. Is this a good solution, is there a better solution, etc., but don't say this isn't right so we won't be able to solve it, because we can't, we can't do it. In that sense, I'm asking you to think about both the outcome and 41 of this, and here, of course, taking care of some of the arguments that I've mentioned here. I'm not going to irritate anyone here. This was also about us, and about our party, about our position or opposition, about NGOs, about some NGOs that are in office of government, about some governmental, is most of this entity or other entity, etc. Let's not burden ourselves with this, if anyone needs any proof here we can, we also have a few memos of NGOs that are mentioned today that they don't exist or that they don't stand behind this proposal. Here I'll just tell you that they're standing, but we're not going to get them here, so we don't put anyone on a pedestal or a pillar of shame, because we're not going to do anything except open the process and come up with a solution in some way. Which is the way, is this way correct, not, but here, we tried to bring some solutions together before entering the procedure, but there was no reaction from the clubs. We simply entered this procedure the way we entered. And here's the thing I can appeal for us all to think about and give a chance, first, to return the Commission report, or not to adopt a negative report, because anyway, I can't call this a negative report. Please take a good look at what it says in this paper that we got as a negative report from the Commission. So, let's get it back to the Commission, give it a chance and open the process to come up with some solutions on the principles that we've been running, with the intention of really resolving the status, to solve it in the same way, and to adequately meet the obligations that we have as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19668	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, distinguished counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19669	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think there's a man in this room who thinks the state shouldn't face this issue and that the state shouldn't solve this issue. I also don't think there's a man in this room who thinks this issue should be resolved in a way that breaks everyone, entity, cantonal and state budgets, and the system stops. So, I am this Law, first of all to say that this, a colleague and colleague from the Party for BiH, have proposed this, we all knew about these activities, in fact thank them for having come into parliamentary procedure. I am absolutely certain that the NGOs behind this Law and the association, too, are not in order to resolve this in a way that breaks the entire system, break all the budgets, simply stop the system. I think we should all be in order to finally bring dialogue on this subject and start talking about this topic. What solutions it will be depends on many factors, because the system has to exist in order to solve something, so it has to be sustainable. Therefore, I saw this law as an opportunity and saw as a chance to finally bring dialogue to BiH. I think that's the best solution. First of all, it's the most humane solution that we do it ourselves. And secondly, I think that's the cheapest solution. Because if we are in a position to execute judicial decisions, I think BiH will be in a more difficult position than it is today. And I'm asking you to face these facts we have all the expensive understanding. I think it would be very good for this law to be held in parliamentary procedure, I think it would be very good to have this back to the Commission and that, together, after we adopt it in our first reading, to open a public debate, to talk to people who are victims, to talk to associations, and to see how we're going to solve this problem. I, as soon as we first received this Law, had since the very beginning claimed that it was actually the goal of finally opening dialogue 42 between victims and the state how to resolve this issue. BiH will have to resolve this issue, there is no dilemma about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19670	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19671	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen representatives, guests. So we have before us a bill that, here's an initiative, I'm going to say this, our fellow MPs and I want to say two things at the beginning. First, I always welcome every initiative, any representative to enter the process and propose certain legal solutions. Secondly, I think this is more than the noble intention of proposing this law. I do not think in this House, there is anyone in this Parliamentary Assembly who would manipulate these issues for daily political purposes. I'll talk a little bit about negative opinion, but I'll also talk about the principles of this law. The problem of this country is the problem of principle. Unfortunately, here are the discussions about this Law, about principles or negative opinions we show our principles. There are too many victims in this country in different ways. In my comment on the answer to one parliamentary question this morning, I commented on the relationship to a group of those victims, which we have a relationship with, generally in this country, which I am not satisfied with at all. So I'm not generally satisfied. We have another group of victims called old foreign exchanges. I'm not happy with them either. We have a third group of some old tenant rights holders that some things are solved for one way or another. We have a fourth, fifth, etc., we have today an army of unemployed that we only call upon when we need to establish them as an argument to another group. Not to solve their issues, their problems, their difficulties. We have a mass of sick people who have a terrible need for the achievement of fundamental rights to quality and correct health care, regardless of how we do not rely on the laws that we have made and which entities, which make cantons, municipal decisions, etc. We're all in charge of everything, but the fact is that we're acting so that we're not responsible for any of the problems, nor do we feel too much remorse about not solving any of these problems. I don't know how it was settled in the RS. I know there's a law in the Federation on the rights of the bearer of the highest military recognitions paid every month. So someone got some credit for their merits in the war and it's being paid neatly every month and I don't know how many millions are out for it. I think BiH is a very, very specific country. We also have the victims of the war, the Law on the Rights of Defense, so there are monthly benefits, neither do I, for the families of the dead, for the wounded, etc. I think, in part, even the soldiers who were held captive, so to speak, are defined by this law. And we have those who, defacto, dejour, however you wish, were truly the greatest victims of the last war. So they didn't have guns to defend themselves. It's mostly those who were captured, so they were unable to defend themselves, or those who were civilians, so they couldn't defend themselves, and many of them, whom we had already given money and every other right, were entitled to. We have a generally dislocated system of values. So we have the least compassion for real victims and at least try to find solutions to their suffering. Here, I agree with 43 colleagues, Jovičić, what is this money that can be paid for? Is there anyone who can do this, but let's not because maybe for certain material givings, I say maybe we don't have enough resources, so let's not reject the whole idea. Let us not, therefore, prevent the possibility of solving what we can really solve by law. In this group, I don't want to mention any special ones now, there's another subgroup in this group, so to speak, for which it's really difficult to human, honestly, correctly imagine what it's even a form of satisfaction. Here, what is the form of satisfactory for a raped woman, whatever anyone thinks about it? Is there some kind of countervalue that you can do that for? Whenever I see Mr. Jovičić, there's a fellow representative coming in and out of this room, I'm tired of asking him anything else, not at all what he's like or what's wrong with him or what's wrong with him or what's wrong with him. Unfortunately, there are thousands of them. And in this country, again I say, it's interesting, the means for many things, to solve many questions, and unfortunately, again I say to those who are the greatest victims, on the victims we are trying to save. And when it comes to exiles, and when it comes to campers, prisoners, and when it comes to those who have no right to health care, and when it comes to combatants, etc. Interestingly, we now find a lot of arguments that, here we show our concern for the state's survival. So, personally, I'm aware of certain shortcomings in this bill's proposal itself, it's humanly impossible to be against this solution, so it's impossible. Here, let me get out of this room and say, I was against it because I kept it, I don't know what. Here's what I don't know. I think the idea spoken by distinguished counterpart Džaferović may be on the trail of a possible solution, to keep this idea alive, to vote negatively on the opinion of the competent commission, to ask for a second opinion, to try to support the principles of this Law. I think the princips are okay, and then let's open up a correct and wider public debate after the first reading and try to get to the possible and feasible and feasible solutions for this category, because it would really be a shame, again, to say, let's say – here's not to deal with these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19672	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil is having a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19673	Dear President, dear colleagues. You've all said less about this law, but here, I've just come to say my opinion. I think Mr. Slavko speech was in the first two-thirds anthology, because he showed in the most original way what happened to him in his life, with no empathy, no pathetics and everything that's been heard and seen in these places very often. The second part, unfortunately, is the third part, in my opinion, has slightly ruined the first two-thirds, because he spoke Slavko as an MP. Unfortunately, it must be spoken here as an MP because we have received a mandate from our citizens, ethnic groups or whatever you want. This law will not pass it is clear, and you know why it will not pass. All the excuses we're talking about are less superfluous. If this Law had been proposed by Mr. Jovičić, and I think it would have been the poorest and the best, it would have been the most human and humane, I'm afraid, that's my opinion of the human being, that would have been the opposite side of finding a thousand reasons not to adopt that law. Watch what I said. A lot of people are gonna accuse me of what I'm saying. We are talking about two qualifications that are crucial to us MPs. About the qualification of something and the quantification. Unfortunately, as MPs, we first talk about quantification, which is the number, and every number in BiH that clouds the qualification of the problem leads to the fact that we cannot agree, because the question is who had the most victims. Here's the question, or the thought of someone having 44 more, less and that they could be used against someone. Unfortunately, it is the worst and most dangerous premise we MPs accept. This Law, at least that's how I experience it, I'm right and I'm much more competent than all of you here in Parliament, I repeat all of you, and in real life, I talk and work with people of all ethnic groups who have the same problems, so I'm competent to say that, this law should only support the qualification of the victim, which Slavko spoke brilliantly in the first two-thirds and which should be our guide for further meetings and talks. I'm saying this because the Commission's so creamy behavior, in my opinion, is inadmissible. It's inadmissible, it's not human. Did Azra suggest that? If that's the problem, then come on, take that name off. Here we are fighting for the qualification of the problem that Slavko expressed in his first part, in my opinion. A country that can't take care of the people she qualified as she qualified, has one big problem, has a terrible problem. We're going to talk today about the Public Procurement Act, the thieving, the transparent thieving. We have transparent thievings where millions are lost, and we are unable to talk about the victim's qualification, whoever it is. Whether a Srbin, a Hrvat or a Bošnjak. I was hoping that today in this House, the highest legislative body, we would talk about the victim and that we would finally put the numbers, which are the problem of all our problems, aside. Our problem is that we keep counting the victims, and through these victims, we try to benefit politically. While we count the victims in Srebrenica in all the sites where Srbin were killed and Hrvat have a constant problem. So please, of course it will go away and it will be, that the decision of this Commission, which, in my opinion, is clumsy, if nothing else is made because of the compromise and the desire to exist or that there is even a illusion of compromise, we return this law or this again, you call it what you want, let us live. We've done a lot of incorrection, unquality compromises, and I think that's kind of my suggestion. Mine probably won't even be adopted, anyway it doesn't matter. That's all I'm telling you because victims, unfortunately, must go to three ethnic groups that are dominant in this country, and there are others, always have the same problem. And believe me when it comes to life and health, no one thinks about us this much, thinks about who's going to save him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19674	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19675	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's an extremely difficult subject and a subject in which with a little more sensitivity and sensitivity one must speak, so that a man with any of his words does no more harm to those, especially the pain, who unfortunately survived in the past war. And so I'm going to try to see these people suffer, and especially by feeling sorry for them, the hardest thing to do is that the women who have suffered these rapes, that's one anger I don't want to talk about, and I can't figure out what kind of position that woman is in. I have a chance to go along with my colleague Slavko through the 15-mile drive, and sometimes we're not able to go over it in one drink because of his health problems, so if I didn't feel anything else then I wouldn't see what it's like, what a man's struggling with. However, in our society there are many of these injustices, many things that have not been solved in a quality way. I'm not sure this way and this kind of law-solving will give any 45 any satisfaction to these people. We have, for example, been working, here's Mr. Lozančić talking about some irregularities, we have, if a man with disabilities he has received 100, 200 marks, if a disabled war for the same one has over 1,000 marks. It's a nonstop remark on the side of others, where he says you can't treat yourself like that. So, in such a way are defined laws, in which it is not the same if you become disabled from war, or disabled from work, or not from work, but by chance on the street if you remain a person that is immeasurable, you have quite a miserable income, and you are unable to continue to perform any functions yourself because you are in some of the needs, that you cannot walk alone and not what else to do. Therefore, there are many of these irregularities. With this law that is scheduled today, they have given little more to themselves for the right to, in the predlog itself, although I fully respect each MP should and may suggest, to assess how much it costs one day. I think, here's what my colleague Slavko will agree, that there is no price and that hardly anyone can calculate what it means one day spent in that, in any kind of torture. So these very evaluations bring us down to the fact that it's all at the end of some sort of material giving. Perhaps if we were to do so together with representatives and entities, and find a solution so that it is said – it is first that those who have done so have to be processed urgently, etc. with the maximum possible maximum penalty. Secondly, to say the time spent, something objectively can be spent in camps or otherwise to count on a work internship increased double, I don't know one way or another. Because there is no one who can calculate the value of life or the value of any damage that has been done. For these reasons, in order not to bring down these people who have already experienced this sacrifice once, to bid again on the amounts and means to which they would be satisfied, I think this Law should suffer a lot, and it would have to be done in a completely different way. And that those solutions that are proposed are objectively enforceable. It doesn't mean anything to us if we make a solution with, a law that will give him all the rights, and that's what happened in a previous one in individual entities, where we say we give 16 rights, and only 2 of which can be used when conditions are acquired. It's just throwing dust then, insulting the wounds of those who already got it once. For these reasons, this Law and this area need to be made more detailed and in this direction to make some different solutions Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19676	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer: Home of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission At the 61st House session, held on 30.12.2013, no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was adopted. The Constitutional Commission shall, in accordance with Article 107(3). The Rules of Procedure, tasked with drawing up a new opinion on the bill. The new opinion was delivered on 17.01. As you can see, the opinion is once again negative. I'm opening a debate. 46 First came in from counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19678	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Just for a little while. As you can see, this is the second negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission, and it's quite clear what the result is when there's a negative opinion the second time, so when it's repeated. I'm just saying, last time we talked about this law, so rightly this is a negative opinion because the law is falling away from BiH's legal system and sets up an emergency legal remedy regime in the way that it is the opposite of both the BiH Constitution and the applicable laws. That's why I think it's a good thing it's a negative opinion and what, here's this law coming out of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19679	Thank you. No more reports. We're going to the seventh point, Ad. Seven. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for delivering Opinion on the Bill on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, or suspending the legislative process The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 20.11.2013. The Constitutional Foundation Committee delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 04.12. To the House College, the deadline for the delivery of Opinion on Principles extended until the next 62nd session of the House, and the Joint Defence and Security Commission again requested the extension of the deadline for submission of an opinion due to the failure of the representatives to attend the meeting of the Commission. In accordance with Article 104a)(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The Rules of Procedure need to be made known to the House on the setting of a new deadline or the renewal of the procedure. I'm opening a debate. The first came from Commission President Dušanka Majkić, an esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19681	Thank you, Chairman. kakle, here's this incident, as I call it, which happened yesterday is not the first incident that happened in the Parliamentary Assembly. A large number of commissions are cancelled because either there are no MPs at committee meetings, so there are no quorums, or there are no proposings, or there is no appropriate proposings that can table a proposal that is under discussion by the commission. I must say that we are very careful to make sure that the Secretariat of the Commission has a precise record of when and where it must be present in order to give the Commission the necessary reasons when the law is adopted. Especially when it comes to specific laws, where certain knowledge and experience are needed and not the knowledge and experience of any clerk. As a rule, we have, by our 47 tolerances, and by excessive tolerance, led to the fact that the ministers almost do not attend the committee meetings at all. Deputy ministers rarely get lower when and the level of people coming on behalf of the promoter. The answers they give us on committees are often not enough for a quality debate to be conducted. So that's a problem that's obvious and this House should take a stand on. Why did we put ourselves in such a position that one of the Council of Ministers' officers could make a mistake and not send information to the department. It's a problem that's up to us again, because the question of the Civil Service Act is never solved, and now you have a position that every civil servant is stronger than the MP who sits here, because he doesn't answer to anyone for the failure of his obligation, and all of us for what we don't do will have the public who will judge us, if not today directly, then in the next election. So, I'm asking the College first, and all my colleagues, to find enough reason to break this condition. I never had a case that the board members didn't show up. And that's a good experience this Commission has. But don't let an official at the Secretary-General deliver timely information to the Ministry and therefore cancel the topic that is on the agenda today really cause my disgust and I expect to get support for sanctioning that condition. The ministry, however wrong or not, is responsible that the law sees the light of the day with the necessary support that the commission must receive. Here's what I really expect to hear from other colleagues what they think about it, and the suggestion is, they have to be sanctioned. What kind of sanctions are we gonna choose? Or should we ignore all this again and wait for the next case to happen?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19682	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19683	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I, therefore, do not doubt that it is necessary to address the issue of the Council of Ministers' relations and of all those who follow the work or are obliged to monitor the work of Parliament and parliamentary working bodies, that we should see what this relationship is, whether obligations are being carried out or not. But I think we've come to this situation needlessly today. Yesterday, we could finish the Commission's session and today submit a report here and not question the project itself, the law itself and at the same time write to Parliament that we have this problem that colleague Majkić is talking about. So, yesterday, while we had one item on the agenda, we were informed that a representative of the ministry was coming, that some stalemate, which should certainly be questioned, and I think it is unnecessary to postpone yesterday's session of the Commission. I don't even think there was a vote, and in my opinion, I have to say, one totally unnecessary strict training. We could have finished the job, and we could have written a letter to Parliament and asked for a debate on this subject, because I also don't think there is a proper relationship between all those who need to follow us towards the work of Parliament and its working bodies. But you could have taken some patience yesterday and finished this job. I insisted on it, but unfortunately, I think the thing down there is done by declaring that there is no more session, no more vote, no more nothing. I don't think we need this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19684	My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, let me remind you that it would be good in your discussions to suggest whether or not we should suspend the procedure or give a new deadline. If you think you need to give a new deadline to suggest what time limit it is or to explain your request if you think you need 48 to suspend the procedure. The debate on what was happening on the Commission may be interesting, but it does not lead us to a solution and therefore I ask you to propose a solution. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19685	I have to replicate to my colleague Jaferovic. If there was a serious chance of a solution, we could have stayed. But to put the commissions in a position to run for ministry officials, I will never, as chairman of this Commission, allow it. They have to be in the appointed place, where they should represent their position, and that we are chasing them and waiting for 10 members of the Commission, it is not worthy of anyone and I will never allow it as chairman of the Commission. As for this part that the chairman said, we have two options, to extend the deadline or sanction them properly, so that it doesn't happen to them anymore. Both are equal. Put one on, if it doesn't pass, the other goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19686	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19687	Well, the replica is to be presented by colleagues Džaferović for the reason that in his discussion he set things up as a substitute for thesis. So here now should be the President of the Commission and the Commission's fault that he couldn't finish the job yesterday, instead of an officer who didn't come to respond to what he was supposed to do. And now we might be able to accept it, to talk about the law on gambling, but the law on money laundering and financing terrorist activities is one of the big and serious laws on which the most qualitative debate must be held on both the Commission and Parliament, and wherever it is necessary, in order to achieve a quality law. So my proposal, when I have already applied for the replica, Mr. Chairman, is that I think it is reasonable for the deadline to be extended to the next session, and of course there are sanctions for officials, as a reminder of all those future ones, because everything that Col. Majkić said about the shortcomings and problems in the work and functioning of the commissions, the lack of relevant representatives from the ministries, that applies to other commissions. The Foreign Affairs Commission, for example, where I am a member, has happened many times that we have to remove some agreements from the debate because there is no relevant rapporteur from the resolution ministry. So, it's a famous thing and I think sanctions should be carried out and that, if we want to get to this law, the deadline must be extended.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19688	I absolutely don't want to go into the discussion, but you'll realize that everyone in their jurisdiction has a way to enforce sanctions. The competent officer is in the ministry that has a duty to him to initiate sanctions and disciplinary proceedings. As parliamentarians to the ministry, you know how we can work. It's a request for a minister's shift if he doesn't handle things. Therefore, do not ask the College to impose sanctions according to a non - member of the Commission. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19689	It's not about people. It's not about changing thesis. Things are next. So there's no one from the ministry, the Secretariat of the Commission checks where they are, what they are, and they were called before that. We get a notice that a person is coming to defend the law that needs to come in a few minutes, and then they say we won't wait, there's no session of the Commission and there's no vote on it. That's all I'm talking about. It costs everything. The people who came down yesterday came from some places, used some funds, that'll be paid. It was 2, 3 minutes, and then we open up the debate, all about a problem called non-presence at the very beginning of a session of persons who are obliged to attend. That's what I'm talking about, nothing more. There's no such thing as indiscipline. There's unnecessary strictness training here, so that's obvious, and I'm asking and there's non-compliance with the procedure. This wasn't put to a vote yesterday on the Commission. The chairman takes the view that she is the Commission. You're not Mrs. Commission. You are one of the 12 in the Commission and you can only lead the Commission, not decide on its behalf.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19690	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19691	Thank you. I would like to replicate a little with my colleague Dušanka Majkić, because I believe that the parliamentary majority in general, and in particular ministers in the Council of Ministers, we are witnesses, to sleep. What you said, and I completely agree, on the Transport and Communications Commission, the minister never found it worth coming with us to talk to, for five minutes, it absolutely does not surprise me. It only confuses me, and that's why I'm replicating you, because you represent the majority, let your voice be heard, you're looking for a shift. Me, if you were a minister from my party, I'd ask for a shift. Another thing, as far as you're concerned, I can generally say, since I have experience in this area, I think we have to, that it's good to support it. Otherwise, as with global transport policy, we'll have a similar situation, but I think you'll have to criticise your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19692	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19693	Well, I mean, to be extremely correct and to be true, the Minister of Security sent a representative to the Ministry to tell us that he wasn't familiar with the call and... means it didn't make sense to wait any longer. So he did not come to defend the Law, or to explain the Law, but to explain that he did not know about it. In order not to be, we can wait yet, we won't wait and I've asked a colleague from the Commission and almost everyone has pleaded except you, here we are more, everyone has declared that we shouldn't wait for anyone and I don't think we should wait. This inferiority has also led us all the way here so they don't respect us and come to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19694	Thank you. 50 I do not wish to arbitration, but from the experience of the work of the other committees it seems to me that we have taken a certain principled view that if there is no proposing that we do not consider the point. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19695	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I really want to invite us back to the essence of what we have when it comes to this bill. So, what I'm saying is that we've been talking and we've been talking for two years now, and it's been two years since we've been doing what we have to do when it comes to this law. You know that we lost the first half of the year because the task force that was formed, when it made the first bill six months later, it was said that they weren't adequately represented entity representatives, so we have to build another working group because without one such approach, we won't be able to discuss this law here. After doing so, and in another working group, so people who represented competent institutions and entities and other levels, so when they established the text of members of the Law to be adopted, in particular, each member was declared, so they gave a consensus on this text of the Law that we have here in the procedure. And now, after that, we are discussing what the status of this law really is and what is really the reason for yesterday's delay in certain officials and we are actually bringing ourselves, as a Parliamentary Assembly, into the situation that we are dealing completely with some, in my opinion, irrelevant, now at this point in this law of non-essential matters. So, I support and understand the discussions that say that we all need to get serious, that we all need to take our part of responsibility for the work we do, but I think we should do it in some other way, not putting us in a position that because of not meeting our conditions in time we need to suffer certain, to say, sanctions or some negative noise. Why did I answer to discuss this? I am as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so I have already received a hint that people who, that people from the bodies dealing with this issue in the Council of Europe want to meet with us at this time next week in Strasbourg and that in some way we are talking about why we as a country have not fulfilled our obligation for two years now when it comes to this Law. So I ask you, as Parliament's Assembly, that as a House of Representatives today we have a certain kind of reaction, this is because, because it would be absolutely ridiculous, let me say, to explain to these people that some official who was 5 minutes late for the meeting, and actually that session was not held for that reason and that is why we couldn't have a positive attitude. I ask you to consider that and that in such a way, here we try to end the story of this law today. I think that we have completely one of these approaches that was made yesterday on this Joint Commission needlessly dragged ourselves into an additional problem, especially if we bear in mind that this is a two-year story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19696	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19697	So I'm in favour of extending the deadline for 15 days, so about somewhere for this first February session. I think it was good and it couldn't have been different yesterday, which wasn't a session, because we sent a message to which the Resort Minister responded immediately and announced, that 51 so to say, a kind of investigation. The seat is broken, it's true, no vote, but it's lost the quorum. So I was sitting, too, but I'm not talking about it, until the end, there was Mrs. Majkić, there was Mr. Džaferović, the session lost the quorum and they were asked for practically, the beginning of the session was, these people were wanted, by the Commission intervened, etc. And I totally agree with the fact that we broke up the session, or that we weren't waiting and looking, because the call, according to the information I heard, was only at 4:00 an official call that came to the resolution ministry. So here's the one, I suggest we extend the deadline by 15 days. And one more thing, I suggest and suggest to the College, in common, you sit with the Council of Ministers, the relationship of legislators is inadmissible, instead of running from club to club, to organise meetings, to promote laws, to explain, we don't even see them, to adopt the law, we don't even see them at the plenary session. And that I'm waiting. Don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19698	Thank you. The next one came forward for the replica, the esteemed representative of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19699	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. There won't be a replica, but I appreciate the time planned for discussion to be saved. Therefore, the representatives of the SBB Club will support the extension of the deadline of the importance of the law on which it is spoken and the needs of its adoption. And in my personal name, I must say that I fully support these last sentences spoken by Mr Belkić, this connection between us and all those who should be legislators and our associates is necessary and we hope for him in at least these last months of our mandates for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19700	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19701	It's very short to state the SDP Club's position. It is not very different from the attitudes of other clubs, so it is an extremely important law. We need to know that this law was unanimously passed by the Council of Ministers. And it is also acceptable for us not to enter further details, to set a new 15-day deadline immediately today. What's bad is that today we don't discuss this Law for reasons that colleagues with more information have talked about. And what's good is that I haven't heard anyone dispute the principles of this Law, so I hope we'll already have it in the next session and adopt it in the first reading. Of course, what Mr. Beriz Belkić was talking about, and as far as relations are concerned, when it comes to legislating and attending committees, as well as my colleague Dervoz, I absolutely support and that is the case. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19702	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 25.11.2013. The Constitutional Foundation Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 17 January 2014. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19705	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've come forward to state the position of my Club of the Alliance for a Better Future on this Law, which is extremely important, and also as President of the Commission for Budget and Finance to clarify some things. Since it is one of the essential laws that has been practically in the debates for more than two years, we have finally welcomed the day that he saw the light of day after the agency's activities that prepared this Law. We received principles in the Commission on Budget and Finance two days ago, proposals for the principle of the Law on Public Procurement, and unfortunately I must conclude that all MPs who were, or members of the Commission, at that meeting were not able to bring their opinion on this Law. Why? Because we got a lot of material, almost 120 members, and I have to admit, and that was some of our internal conclusion, we weren't competent enough, we didn't get enough information what this law that is so important and that needs to pre-war the corruption that has become everyday life, we weren't sure how to behave, we only got one source of information. And that is why, since it is an extremely important law, we have decided to support the principles of the Public Procurement Act by improving this Law through amendment forms, which certainly has certain shortcomings. In the meantime, a lot happened, I would say, the echo of this law in first reading, in the commission, where many organisations, NGOs, pointed out the lack of adequateness and inadequacy, I would also say the accuracy of the said law. What concerned me most was that even some representatives of state authorities or institutions had also set a reserve in their statements according to the law. As an example of this, I will only give you a few data, which is that so far only 24% of open procedures have to be maximum transparency, in Croatia there were 86 in 2012, that in 41% of transparent procedures the documentation was not published on the website, which according to the law must be. That there wasn't enough monitoring by the Agency that was legally required to do that monitoring. The agency pointed out the problems of the Agency which has 23 employees, and the three wish offices have 16 members, or 16 employees, while in Croatia they have 6, in Serbia 5 and work much more efficiently and quality than they do in BiH. It is further said that the mechanisms and tools for the extraction of funds are still present and that unless certain amendments are made, they will be the basis for corruption. We as members of the Commission for Budget and Finance on several occasions, and here we had a unique position, we pointed out that the basic problem and source of corruption in the institutions of the BiH state was an inadequate and inapplicable law which, in principle, when seen what was now done, was good because it was not adequate monitoring. On many occasions, we pointed out that even according to Parliament, the House of Representatives, the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible so that it does not stand and sits in Council drawers, because this is what I think the fourth or fifth addition of that Law, trying to initiate through the Commission the adoption of a law that will, above all, be applicable, extremely simple and those who will use it will be able to use it in the simplest way. I'm afraid 120 members and the law as it is presented to us is not that. I think the complexity of some law is in his simplicity. And my fellow members of the Commission have also pointed out the problem of sublegal acts where, through sublegal acts, I would say, all the laws of the defined items are strewn. Therefore, on the basis of all of this and these activities, if you want a reflection on the law offered, the Club of Representatives, or members of the Alliance for a Better Future, has proposed one conclusion, which will be referred to parlametan, which is: - That the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should, after the adoption of the principle of the Law on Public Procurement from 10.12.2013 in the first reading of the 15-day period, organise a public debate on the Law which will provide for all relevant additional opinions to be adopted and which will ultimately contribute to obtaining an even more transparent and quality form through the amendment form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19706	Thank you. In accordance with the College's agreement, we're giving a break an hour or I'll see you here three hours ago. /
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19707	My fellow Members and fellow MPs have been informed that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. We are at the 9th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of BiH. They've been reported, we're going in a row, distinguished colleague of Saša Bursać's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19708	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I think one of the most important proposals for the law is today ahead of us, it's the Law on Public Procurement, one of the laws that we've practically had since 2004 but which, through all these years of existence, let's say, in BiH, has had many problems. There was a lot of uncertainty, uncertainty, very often decided, meaning the very procedures of public procurement precisely thanks to the previous Law, so it was also decided in court. This is a very extensive and complex matter, definitely one of the most important laws of life, but at the same time a law that is very difficult to write because it should cover all spheres of life. So you take into account, then, that definitely a unique law on public procurement, for example, for the economy, for agriculture, for tourism, for different branches of the economy, means definitely not that it's not easy to write, but definitely that each of these branches has a personality such that it's very difficult to unite it in one law. However, it is my opinion that there should be as much detail in the Law as possible and that this Law should, of course, be as common as any other, but this particular one should have as few sublegal acts as possible, precisely because the items are currently related to public procurement very often in commercial courts and because in this context these problems know that they have been diverged for several years. What is the biggest, biggest problem in this case practically when writing this law is that the law is that the law does not retain processes in BiH, public procurement processes in BiH. 'Cause look, here I am when we talked here once about the Office of Appeals I remember mentioning, say, tourism. If public procurement is conducted before the tourist season, let's say about three or four months, and if the procedure is taken six months, it means practically entering the tourist season, and in any way when the public procurement is resolved it serves nothing, it literally goes to the harm of BiH, or our citizens. And so in every sphere of life, every delay costs us every day, I answer to you, millions of marks. So, what was required in this Law? It's speed and expeditionivity, so every law on public procurement is a basic postulate, so there's not much to keep public procurement. This is practically, comparing the meaning of these two laws, the law currently in force and the one we have here in the proposal, so the old law, I'll already call it the old law, so there are 57 members, the new one predicted 124. So, there's a whole new text in front of us, a new text that, here's what I'm honest with you, so in some humble work experience, I've had a chance to meet a lot of public procurement, but I haven't understood a lot of the parts of this law, so I've been looking for the interpretations of my fellow lawyers and every day, so we hear about this law. I support my colleague Kabil's initiative, my colleagues, meaning from the Commission, because together we discussed this law at the Commission, because the problem is difficult, extensive, complex and because it should deserve the maximum responsibility of all of us here, it would not be a bad thing to hold that further public debate, although I know that you have had the procedures of all those concerning the law. And it wouldn't be too bad if this Law, since I've heard practically that in 14 days we should have a session, wouldn't it be bad if the second phase of this Law didn't go to that session, means naked to come after a public debate, if we understood Mr. Kabil well, it means that it's not coming right away but to come after, not to the next session, but to someone there later. So 55 we can definitely all talk about this law better and discuss it and that eventually, means eventually through amendments, not to rush the amendments, but through amendments to make amends to this law. I won't talk about principles this time, what I found as only one remark is that a lot of things is left to the Council of Ministers to solve by sublegal acts. That should definitely be avoided as much as possible, but my Bog, of course some things will have to be dealt with and the Council of Ministers. But some new details like the office in Banja Luka and Mostar are definitely a good thing. What, if you remember the same thing when we discussed the office for reviewing complaints is the same we insisted then, I insisted and you supported my discussion, to speed up the processes when the disputes, to speed up opinions when the disputes over public procurement appear. So definitely, I repeat again, with this law you don't need... Thank you very much, I'm not wasting any more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19709	Thank you. I am consulting with the professional service on the presence of both the promoter and those interested in the Public Procurement Agency. They decided to, let me say, report it maybe eventually. My dear colleague, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we have a long-awaited Law on Public Procurement for which all those who want a faster path to Euro-Atlantic integration and faster economic growth must be very interested. In fact, the Public Procurement Act highlights the interests of a crowd of stockholders, so it can in the shortest possible be characterised as an instrument for improving macroeconomic stability and rationality in the consumption of public money, improving the business environment in terms of the possibility of non-discriminatory access and non-discriminatory forms of competition, in particular the business sector, and in a mammal of faster and more efficient public money spending for projects in which state institutions or public companies appear as contract holders. I would like to start by saying that it is also a very important instrument for preventing corruption that is certainly emerging in this area, but far from what the NGO is providing as information. I remember that in June, when there was a debate on amendments to the Public Procurement Act, the figure of 800 million losses caused by collective operations to rise to billions today in January 2014. So there's this drama, there's Nušić and Sterija, there's really all kinds of metaphors that maybe sometimes they can seduce and not show the real, real state of things. I would also like to point out that this Law is one of the system laws and that it is not the law in the SNSD and SDP segments. This is to remind myself there was the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement in June of last year when they made two amendments, changed the amount of fees for complaints and reorganized the Office of Appeals. So this is one system law and it should not be brought into any connection with the SDP-SNSD arrangement. The law is done according to the highest standards. I would say that, in particular, this particularly confirms the support of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then the EU, which has been working through the SIGMA Joint Project of the OECD and the EU, or providing technical assistance to the drafting of this Act. So if we have any project that enjoys the full support of international institutions, then this Law, and in this sense we can be very sure that the key values of 56 European public procurement regulations are embedded in this project, and that we also have the support of institutions that are organised to fight corruption, i.e. to rationalise public spending, such as the World Bank, that this law has reached one European regulatory standard in this respect. What is also very important in the preparation of this Law was a broad debate, so it is almost two years old, and there are, there has been significant co-operation with the NGO sector, above all by the tender... And I would like to point out that the SDP ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers have been one number of amendments, which these NGOs have created, headed towards the Council of Ministers, and they have finally found themselves embedded in certain forms in this Law. I would particularly like to highlight the principle applied in this Law, which is the principle of innovation, so new values, new regulations that are just the result of the observed weaknesses of existing laws. Just to remind some of them, the certification of officials, i.e. public procurement associates in the institutions of state and public companies, is being introduced, which is what was specifically required, and this requires a lot of work in terms of education. Then, the transparency of tender procedures was increased, such as mandatory publication of competition proceedings, which so far was the discretionary right of the contractual authority. Then, the reduced value of works that can be additionally incorporated into contracts has been reduced. Furthermore, the obligation to draw up public procurement plans, to publish them, means increasing transparency and the possibility of good preparation for projects to be published at a certain time. And then there's an obligation to make contracts awarded advertised on the contract authority's website. As for the procedure proposed here by counterpart Kabila, who was joined by Saša, we also have no objection at the SDP Club and we will support a public debate of 15 days, and to further create possible solutions in this public debate that will contribute to the quality of this Law. To conclude, therefore, we will support the principles of this Law convinced that indeed this Law contributes and makes a major step in preventing corruption and improving the business environment and creating conditions for more efficient public spending, thus contributing, and to a certain extent, fiscal sustainability and macroeconomic stability in our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19711	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19712	Professor Domazette, I'd like to say, I was just thinking, here's someone who's seen what's going on, understands the law, and I've checked that two public debates have already been under that law, managed to compare what the current Public Procurement Act is. There we had all the parts of the Law that were prescribed,... they were copied and translated from Anglo-Saxon law and were absolutely incomprehensible to us. We had 70% of the contractual authorities that didn't understand the law, had a large number of objections to the revision and finally came to a law that now for the first time seems to me that we have a law by which the contracting authority knows what to do to it. What I thought, I expected from you, is that you will not accept that this further wrinkling of this Law does not mean that we will gain quality, because every day some of the NGOs express their views. In doing so, some of these NGOs are directly interested in adapting the Law to themselves. Some of the 57 NGOs precisely because they failed to change the Law in order to provide themselves with greater transit, questioned that a billion corruption in the Public Procurement Act. If anyone could just explain to me how they calculated it. So, I think the story of public procurement should be put to the point, because the worst thing that can happen to us is that the existing Public Procurement Act remains, and that only on this example, to provide for a new meeting, for people who come, that they can deal with the problems in the context of the revision and in the context of public procurement and audits. And I think now we have all the elements to vote and to pass the law. So I ask Professor Domazet, and especially all the members of the Finance and Budget Committee, if they are not behind this Act, and if they do not support it, and if they have not studied it well, then really, the introduction of a dilemma in others is not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19713	Thank you. Here's the answer to the replica. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19714	Well, that's less an answer than more a reminder of what I can still say, and I thank Mrs. Majkić in that sense. So, there was really co-operation with these NGOs. I'll just remind you that in June's amendments to the law, in those two points, full consent was with the tender, or the auction. Today they deny it. Therefore, proposals related to the level of complaints, proposals related to the reorganisation of the Office of Appeals were fully agreed. And today there are, therefore, a very large number of measures that they have proposed, which are included in this Law and still a strong opposition to the Law, as if it were still a crime, a litter of corruption, a litter of intransparency, etc. Of course, we will always respect the NGO sector, only there are certain principles of co-operation, there are certain boundaries and there is actually a need for public change to be realistically informed of everything we are preparing. I think that we can send the citizens of BiH a message that this law is truly an extremely innovative value, very close to European values. Of course, we can have European laws, but if we don't have an administration, if we don't have a monitoring system and a complete public procurement management system, we won't have results. Therefore, I would also like to point out this dimension that the Law has paid great attention to monitoring and public publication of the results of the procurement contract. Whether they are realised, whether they are made annexes and overruns and similar things are achieved for them, it will be valuable information for the public and we will be able to discuss much more with arguments, and less with feelings and less with dramaturgy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19715	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19716	Well, I do, my replica refers to Mrs. Majkić's statement, honourable MPs. Look, first of all, I don't know anything from that area, or I don't know much, and I've read it very little, and I'm giving you the 58 right to know very much. And I am also giving myself the right to have this whole debate, but it is not a public debate under Parliament's auspices, for two years, that there has been a minor 4.5 addition to that law. So the law isn't complete. But as a parliamentarian, I cannot agree with you in the fact that representatives of business entities, businesses, private and public, say there is insufficientness in this proposed law. Whether they know it or not, whether they're part of some lobbies, I'm not going into it, but as an MP, I have the right to demand that a public debate be held under the auspices of Parliament, not a group of some kind of tender, a semi-tender or I don't know what. It means under the auspices of the Commission to conduct a public debate. I don't see anything wrong with that after two years. Why? Because we're going to be appalled there by all the negativity that's going to be said to be Parliamentarians are part of some clans and groups. And I don't see anything wrong with that, because I don't know. I admit I don't know that. Therefore, I think our intention is very fair, that it is based on an echo that is the echo of all these events both by the Agency and by representatives of various economic operators. There, that's my comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19717	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19718	kolega Kabil, you would be 100% right if you had some new event players. The main actors in the public debate will be the same again, literally the same NGO. No one else is coming. And we know exactly what every NGO has come in here, what it isn't, and why they're asking it to come in. That's why I think it's unnecessary depletion. The same actors who are actors this year will re-emerge at the third public hearing on public procurement. It's squirming. We have to put an end to it. There is no law on public procurement that will suit all. But what does he have to do? It should be so transparent that it is possible to reduce the pressure on public money through his procedures. That's the basic essence. And now significant measures have been taken. I assume that the EU, which is zealously monitoring how this law is progressing, did not accidentally give consent. That one SIGMA also didn't accidentally give consent. They do not give consent, that all directives relating to public procurement have been implemented for the first time. You can't disrespect that. I think that we've made real progress with this proposal for public procurement, and that's why I think everything else is grumbling.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19719	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19720	Oh, it's not a replica, I just have to fill in a few things. We, when we talk about public debates, about anything, are constantly attached to the NGO sector. I listened to you, Dušanka. I don't think in this case, personally, with all due respect, I'm interested in NGOs as much as I'm interested in public enterprises, businesses, private enterprises and anyone else who deals with this problem. I think now that we have this law, it wouldn't be a bad thing to have one more look at it, just these people that I've just talked about. The non-governmental sector, with all due respect, is a great honor to them, but they don't depend on it. This depends on the economy, agriculture, tourism, health care, and I don't know, everything and one sphere of life, doesn't depend on NGOs. So, I ask you, here, if today we agree to have a public debate again, I ask you, so that you inform all people, so that you inform all people from various spheres of life in BiH who are currently engaged in public procurement and who are being touched by this, that eventually, if they are not so far, to give their opinion once again. So, with all due respect to the NGO sector, but I mean definitely, I don't think this is the law we need in a hurry. This isn't the law we need in a hurry, because we've had the law for 10 years, but we have it. So, when we're already coming up with quality solutions and we're talking about every point of the agenda here about quality solutions, I think we should definitely discuss this most about people who meet up with public procurement every day. I mean, with all due respect, they're not any NGOs, and if we're going to have a public hearing for them again, then we don't have to do that. But if we're going to work for the people involved with this particular problem, then these people need to take part here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19721	Thank you. You know that if we vote, that's what the Finance and Budget Committee does, and it's up to her to call on whom she thinks she should call all the other associates. So... now let's open up the question of who's calling who here and whose jurisdiction it is. Dear fellow Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19722	Here, I will again report to the honourable MP Majkić, who I truly highly appreciate and who has shown one consistency and even patience in his political action through all the committees. I don't see any reason why we're so eager to do this, a public debate is being held. No public debate has been held today through Parliament and point. The public debate will go through the Commission which will initiate the same and will call on those actors who are not only the non-governmental sector, but we will call on all those people who are essentially dependent on this law. And I don't see what the problem is? What is it, 15 days after two years? So I want to point out that you can't say that, we're gonna end it today, don't rape us. This law is a fundamental law for BiH and all the frustrations of people from the Agency are not of interest to me. I'm not interested in these frustrations. The public debate through the Parliamentary Assembly has never been held and that is the case. So, you have, we've been discussing it, we don't know, we want to hear business entities, their directors, because they've been calling, in these two days everyone's been calling me. No, the NGO sector. I don't care about tenders or the NGO, I don't even know who pays them. Besides, it's not my job either. But I'm asking you to at least you, I'm surprised that you, Mrs. Majkić, who insist so much on procedures, and I learned it right away when I got here, because I had no idea, that's not how I do it in my hospital. You just say that - let's bring it to the point today. There's no point, what point? I'm sorry, ma'am. I appreciate you very much, but I'm surprised by your behavior. It can't be like that. We have the right to give our opinion that this Parliament, the most significant law at this time for this country, is having a public debate. I'd say, period. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19723	Thank you. I expected that after this break we would lower our tensions and that this law would pass, to say, in a peaceful atmosphere and not open any unnecessary questions. The Commission even has an autonomous right to open up, organises a public debate. This is where the initiative has now come to determine this House of Representatives, to suggest that the Commission do so. And the Commission can do it without suggestion... So let's go back to first reading, principles of the law, etc. Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, a colleague, responded for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19724	Well, it's not a classic replica, but let me just say, what Mrs. Dušanka Majkić said, I agree. Last year, I took part in a debate here in this great hall of ours as an MP. I was invited by these various so-called. NGOs that were acting, believe me, very much, so they acted so in favor of their own. So it was absolutely undetectable that it was the NGO sector. People, these were such salva attacks on the Public Procurement Agency, on MPs, on political parties, there were all sorts of different interests of certain circles, which did not seem to me at all ungovernmental. I, of course, who am not an expert on economic issues etc., but in this long marathon debate that was happening right here in the BiH Parliament, I have concluded that something is not a fundamental office. Of course, the existing law on public procurement we need, it's living matter, every law is being amended, we're all welcome with our various amendments, and we'll be able to fix it at that stage, and that's okay. But it's very important to pass the Public Procurement Act. It is essential, it is the basic law of every state and of course both foreigners and all others have very nice interests. On the other hand, if we weren't giving big, as I would say, fellow Kabil, I totally understand what you're talking about, it means we need a debate, etc. I should, but it's already gone on forever. I mean, that's, that's been arguing for years, but they've become really, as I would say, discussions to that degree more that, yes, we have to have something. We've got to have something on the sona we'll go from. Because everything is better than the fact that we don't change the existing law. On the other hand, it means everyone so-called. The NGO keeps telling us – so you support corruption. Who's supporting her? Ours means a positive opinion that this Law really is adopted, with all due respect that it must have its amendments, etc., we should really work to adopt it. No, I mean, it's become infinite. For all the signs are marked, so it is the bed of corruption, so you are the most corrupt country, so you are like this, so the Agency is guilty, all of you are guilty. Well, I mean, we have to do something. We're here to do something.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19725	Thank you. We're moving on to discussions. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19726	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Well, look, she has a folk proverb. Whoever loses has the right to rebel, to be angry. I think it's here, is it, true somewhere in between. We've got a law that's not perfect, we've got a lot on it. Here, if we remember, only in these benches every time we discussed the revision, in addition to our failures that we didn't have standards and criteria, was the law on public 61 purchases to be completed and that didn't reach the level that should have transparency in this stage of our system development. When a little look at what's going on these days, let's say as a man, I accept what my colleague Kabil said, so why don't we have a public hearing when everyone's arguing. We did it, I think we can defend every paragraph. But last night I looked at some time television, I don't even know which one it was, it was ugly, it was ugly to see. Who knows not, or who is uninvited, he would say: "Here sits a criminal group who today prepares something against the poor people. It's so conveyed in one sentence, if you want to tell some man what he said, like we do at home that we have old parents and sometimes we have to explain something to them. Here, I wanted to say it in a vivid way. And I mean, that's why I need to, I understand these other approaches, but here, I think that although there should be a public debate, I'm not against, it can be... that these things can be explained that stand. When it comes to this Law I think that he, not only by the number of articles from 50 to 150, it doesn't have to mean that it's quality, but the fact that he's worked out, he's so raised transparency and accelerated the procedure that, I think you should admit it and say that it's one fact that stands like that. Here, just a few things – that shorter deadlines, publishing purchase plans, publishing contracts, delivery of detailed reports, etc., are given the possibility of selecting more bidders, concluding framework agreements. These are all newspapers that were inside, we have a public procurement portal, so where we can see everything. These are all significant steps. It introduces a kind of cipher that when people find themselves in a process that they can manage immediately, that they know what it is and that there are no problems that stand. We even went a little bit, when I looked at it, I was surprised, we were going to protect our domestic production. We usually have to hide it as something, but I don't think we have to hide it because we're still far from the EU and we're not, what I've always said, capable of playing a game with them. We have to lead in some way, they actually have to understand that it doesn't happen to us like we have on the highways come with the bag, they pick us up the money and leave us the problems – the unmade roads, the problems and the vessels we're working on now, here we see in that part. What I'm about to do here is a little bit of a problem with this implementation, and every law is full of sublegal acts. So it's now an essential operationality of the Council of Ministers and the Agency who should bring it all in, and the establishment of these offices. Now there's a vacuum. If we adopt the Law, it goes into effect, and to enable us to do so, in that transition to 800 thousand marks, I'm afraid we're not going to get into any trouble. But here's my suggestion to those who were doing it to keep an eye on that part. Because I see, and this part of education, even though it can be casual, what it says, needs a lot of people in that part and a lot of education. One of the problems still standing, and we've been through it seems to me in this House, he's stuck in this other House, the Board of Appeals. I mean, people aren't named, right now it's a legal vacuum. I don't know who's doing it right now. They're probably piling up there, and I think we need to take more care of that than the individual paragraph is standing there. But here's what I'm finally saying, we need to accept it, it's the best law adopted, and then through law enforcement, and through what we see in practice that we need to change, we need to be quick and efficient and change it. And that's the right approach. And then we'll achieve the result that stands. So here's our support and the HDZ Club for Principles, and I think this is one significant advance that will make life easier for us. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19727	Thank you. The next one for the discussion came from a distinguished Member of Parliament, Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19728	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Well, a lot of what I wanted to say was already said by my predecessors. So in short, I welcome the reference of this law to our parliamentary procedure. I am pleased that the law, proposed by law, is one significant step forward, because it is very much in line with the directives, so with the European acquis. Both domestic experts and foreign SIGMA experts worked on the draft of the law. And I really believe that the proposed law is an attempt to make the procurement procedure much better, faster, more efficient and transparent. That we need transparency, testifies to the fact that the share of transparent or most transparent open procedures with public publication has dropped dramatically, from 91% since 2008 to only 25% in 2013. We are aware of the fact that hundreds of millions of budgets are covered by public procurement procedures, that a bunch of jobs in both the Agency and the Board of Appeals are largely the result of the indeterminateness and inaccuracy that existed in the existing public procurement law. So, about the positive changes have already been made by my predecessors, I'd just like to apostrophe a few of them. In fact, I like the new Law Proposal, which sets out the conditions for the implementation of certain public procurement procedures, especially those of specific procedures. The criteria for the award of the contract are specified, in particular by the definition of the economic, or the notion of the most economically favourable offer. Also, transparency has been increased as tender documentation is now available to all interested participants. We also have a publication of information, i.e. we will have a publication of contract information, as well as possible changes to those contracts. So the level of transparency increases significantly. So there is certainly always, no law is perfect, there is an opportunity for amendment action and, of course, sometimes it seems to me and it is necessary for the intervention of our executive authority, so the Council of Ministers, to consider technical and personnel training and the Agency and the Office of Appeals, in the sense that their monitoring roles, i.e. the preventive and control role of the Agency, which seems to me sometimes neglected in previous legal solutions. I also believe that, when it comes to the said Law, in addition to certain technical perhaps misunderstandings and some non-compliant articles, which again is a matter of technical question, it may be necessary to specify a little of the conditions when the Agency initiates infringement orders. But of course, it is, we can tie it to this second amendment phase. So, in short, it's a good text of the law, and I think, of course, as far as the public debate is concerned, we're open to the public debate party, but I think it might be better to act as an amendment in order to simply improve the above-mentioned text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19729	Thank you. 63 Next is counterpart Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19730	Here, I'll try very briefly. So, in the context of what we discussed a few hours ago about the non-disclosure of the law by this Commission for Defence and Security, you see, we are talking about one of the most important system laws, and instead of having the entire Council of Ministers that the Proposer is, with all due respect, we have people who implement the law. So, reminders work. Absolute support to the Commission to make a decision and to organise a public debate, absolutely. The chairman said we can make a recommendation, etc., but the final decision will be made by the Commission. Suggestion, my suggestion, call telecoms, call road directors, call Electroprenos, etc., etc., those who conduct tenders of hundreds of millions, employers' associations, chambers, etc. And of course, why not these. What people are talking about, these gatherings, etc., I did last night, what Dragan was watching, I don't know what television is, and I saw it, some with a hairstyle a little more vivid, is... what is a man saying, and a man shows up as a deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and he makes some comment there about this Law. So, why don't we, I can't count it out by public debate, then why don't we have this Commission, here's the President of the Commission really in a very correct way to explain why it is necessary. So much when it comes to the need for a public debate, my position. I would like it to be explained, I believe that we have two institutions here, unlike the application of other laws, we have here two institutions working on application and following application. And I would be very pleased that all these solutions are mostly based on your analysis of ten years of application. You mentioned very shyly and modestly here that you were following something, and you didn't say that you did a serious application analysis, etc. Every honour for the directives, every honour of European practice, etc., but it is crucial that we here have two institutions that are eminently monitoring and competent to say something about the law. And a few questions and, so to speak, a distraction of some things. Are the annexes an integral part of the Law? In a very strange technical way, it's settled. You finished the Law with transitional and final provisions, you put the signatures, the chairman of the homes, etc., then you reopened the annexes, and again the signatures, etc. Consider, consult with the legislation offices in which the annexes are handled. Please, in Article 93, the first reading is, but this is one situation I cannot say, in Article 93, paragraph 2 says - members of the Board of Appeal are representatives of the constituent peoples. Please give this formulation, so members of the Board of Appeal are representatives of the constituent peoples. We're talking discrimination, we're talking about this, we're talking about what happened to the others? And it's not a representation, it's a specialized agency, etc. Of course you should, you can say national representation, etc. It's, uh, ugly to have this in one of those laws. I think that should be avoided. I would like to be explained that the regulated mandates of the Chairman's Office for Appeals are and how is the Director of the Public Procurement Agency's mandate regulated, and what does the formulation mean that the Director of the Public Procurement Agency is a secretary with a special task? _________(?) 64 [[no microphone turned on]] What? With a special assignment? Special Agent. All right, all right, thanks. So, miracle, administration is a miracle, good. Did I piss you off? No, I'm sorry. Well, I'm sorry, please. So, and this formulation is that we don't fall into the problems that you're all familiar with. It is said in one place that the mandate is five years, and then it is said if a new mandate is not appointed, it will last until the appointment of a new one. Then it's not a five-year term. So that needs to be resolved. And it needs to be specified, resolved. That's it, but please answer me, when you speak, these few questions. And these constituent peoples and these mandates of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19732	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19733	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, since we haven't had enough time on the Commission to say some things, here's a chance that here in an open debate, where I see different proposals come from the same clubs and I don't think there's any problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19734	It's democratic.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19735	It's so democratic that it's simple, but you'll do it there when we come to say it will be, so we'll agree with your opinion. Thank you very much. This was a little bit on your tab, Mr. Chairman. And it pisses me off, believe me, when it starts, it says: corruption, corruption, corruption. I don't even know who calculated it, how it was determined, which degree, etc.? When corruption is mentioned, no one here thinks about what they're competing with, about what they're negotiating between themselves, but always thinks about that performer, or about the contractual side of that man who wrote there and always comes from it, because we choose you, then we cooperate in a certain way with those people in that corruption. And the fact that the three of them agree to make the lowest bid, and give up, and make such arrangements, does not interest them. Thus, many have become rich, competing in public, for public procurement, giving up at certain percentages, and people are neither guilty nor obliged to pay for certain things when they conspired, agreed, and offered high bids. Eh, I think this is the group that's been working on this, worked for almost two years, made a pretty good law, a law that can endure certain changes and changes through amendments, but I think it's well defined, in line with European rules. Backed up by SIGMA as well. Now that SIGMA reminds me of that butmiric SIGMA that produced the elements, so it's not some commercial, but when they told them what they were doing, then I appreciate it. 65 I think that's the point, though, that all these members in the 90s and some percentages are consistent. It's especially good that you don't have to go now for gas, water, electricity to contract services because you don't have another supplier. These are some advantages that are defined here and otherwise, imagine you have one supplier with electricity, gas or heat and you have to go with the tender and whoever comes brings you into a position to break the rules. This new law, however, has certain efficiency in the speed of solving cases. There is where low offers are rejected from suppliers, those bidders, etc., unless they make evidence that they really do at that price. I remember in some tenders where people square living space in the city predicted for 820 marks. And there's no price below 1,000 marks that he can be made. But he's the one, if you don't pick him, you've committed a violation. It's still defined now that they can be rejected. And this is a good thing that you can choose more suppliers. So, let's say restaurants that are, or I don't know, committed to one supplier and if he stops delivering meat, bread, milk, he does, as long as he's calling a new tender his season is going down. I mean, these are all the advantages that these new laws have covered, and I think they're good. Then, the deadlines were cut, accelerated procedures. The retraining has been before, but the requalification for these larger offers has been well defined. Transparency maximum and especially I like the protection of domestic production. True, you just hinted, I don't know how the Underlaw Council of Ministers will do it, but I think we have to. Well, at least we in this summer period when we have products from our space, tomatoes, I don't know, peppers, etc., should not at least then be allowed to import. I wish this man of ours who does this production could make something happen. And then, if there's anything else in all this is good, it's a good thing that this debate is in a certain way, here's the end of the discussion, and I'm going to make my point, and I'll probably agree with my opinion when we get this over with. Therefore, if we are to talk about the debate, the debate has already been well discussed, but we must not now, because of these 15 days, how long it will take to put all of this into a position so that it does not take place. I don't think it's worth it here in Parliament such fierce debates, but if we do, let's do what Mr. Belkić proposes to be really businessmen, roads, those who have great resources, etc., that they themselves say what it is, and at least those who deal with these other things. Here, I hope the law gets its support, and however we opt for it, it won't be disputed to have that debate, because then at least we'll get quality law, so they can't make any remarks. And as for transparency, I think full transparency has been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19736	Thank you. Dear MP, Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19737	Thank you, Chairman. I asked the question two years ago when the Public Procurement Act would see the light of day. And here, I didn't think I'd be waiting, that the mandate would pass, for my pleasure the law came. Of course, this is a very complex matter. Of course, this matter can only be understood by polyvalent personnel, so that they enter multiple areas, and I think 15, month, two months, and even three months represent nothing compared to how many of us, how long it would take for all of us to pass a good law. Dramaturgy has, as the professor said in the discussion, about the work of all public institutions. We know where it comes from and how it comes from, but 66, however, if there was a sign, I wouldn't say a sign, but if there was a truth, absolutely there was a truth. And it helps state authorities, or public institutions, to remind themselves of certain things. I've had a chance to talk to two people working on a tender. So, who are working on the contracts and who told me how, of course, it's about the former law, how all the way the process is being implemented,... how to bypass the law. [[/turned by a microphone so you don't understand.]] As it bypasses, as percentages are taken, as millions are taken. So this isn't about hundreds of thousands of marks, it's about millions. For what it's done, etc., so I don't get into it. I'm glad he does, but my idea was right away that this was going to a public hearing. Of course, we've got one integral text. So far there has been no integrated text, but now he is in the phase and we need to hold a public debate on the integrated text that we have received. And invite, of course, professional people, people who work in tenders. It is necessary to assign a congregation service to call upon the right people for discussion through certain information, by means of elktronic, electronics. So, I absolutely support that. But let me say something about this proposal. Of course this is one step. All things begin with the first step in improvement, absolutely. But I think there's a lot of incomprehensible text. The text is, I'd say, translated, but it's quite clumsy in some things translated. So unless that legal norm is defined in a normative legal sense, it does not express the spirit of our man, I think it will create certain problems in application. Therefore, it should be sought in the further phase, through amendments, etc., of this debate, to improve that text. One of the conditions for European integration, of course, successfully bringing corruption into some normal frameworks and transparency of the work of public institutions. That's basic stuff. This Law has a chance to regulate these things, namely to improve, to achieve a certain quality. However, I would only put some points, remarks on Articles 92, 93 and 116, that we all might consider this matter. In 92 it is the Office for the Review of Appeals, and in Section 5, branches in Banja Luka and Mostar have five members, three of which are members of the line of recognised management experts. The legislator, if he says so, must then say, define who the experts of administrative law are, who the experts are. This remains at a later stage, that certain bodies are discreetly decided, given the right, and as soon as the discretionary right of discretionary decision is given the possibility of manipulation, manipulation. So that's what you should say. This is attitude 9. Also whether, I can't predict it now, whether this Office is only bound by the BiH Constitution and the BiH laws, given that economic operators are in the whole area, both entity, and cantonal, etc. So that should be seen, because at a later stage it may have some confusing repercussions. Now this choice whether it is the happiest of Parliament I am not sure, but we can also think about it. What's important here in Article 116(7)? Resolved in the Office's appeal procedure, resolving the appeal procedure, based on the state of the file, he can file a criminal complaint. This is already an unfinished legal norm and I don't know, the application can be filed by anyone, but Article 116 is just talking about a violation, about fines. When the first Law was passed in the RS, I was in the government at the time, when the Law on Public Tenders was passed, then I strongly opposed why only criminal penalties were provided. Why? Therefore, we will not have any of this Law if this remains on this and if it remains in the qualification of a criminal offence, abuse of the official position, because this is being undermined by a common denominator – abuse of official position. I think a criminal law should qualify for criminal acts relating to this law and prescribing it. Otherwise, we'll have a little bit of this law. It has to be, because some things are such a character to deserve, to represent a very serious crime. And to make things easier for the judiciary, then things need to be differentiated. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19738	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19739	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thinking about all this in the breaks when we're trying to solve this problem, the solution we've offered may not be the best, but I really don't understand why such opportunism towards a very quality attempt to solve the difficult problem that's bothering us. Perhaps my observations on this subject are not identical to yours, because I live in another world. You no longer measure the time of ordinary seconds than nanoseconds. You live too fast, and you don't have as much time as I do. Don't be angry, Bog forbid you have it this way. Well, maybe thinking about all this is one of the most Christian laws for every country since the beginning of human civilization. This statement to some sounds unusual... If you take principles for example, then I'll tell you that the principle has remained the same since the beginning of civilization until today. That system of two short words that we call public procurement today existed from the first socio-political arrangement and the creation of the first state in civilization. Go backwards, from a new century to a Middle Ages, to an old age, through kings, emperors, Pharaohs, to... in Mesopotania, they all had this problem that we are talking about today – public procurement. The revenues and expenditures of the state you rule and which you want to make as good as possible for you and for your subjects, spending your resources, think about whether I'm right or wrong, and you'll see. And if anyone thinks the most modern state in the world has solved this problem, it's not. Here's what we're trying to solve. At this point, in small BiH, the way it is, with the kind of arrangement that it is, in every municipality, the municipal council has the largest headache called tenders and public procurement, up to this Parliament. Each head of each municipality has the same problem as Mr. Bevanda and his Council of Ministers. So a problem that's not easy to break over your knee. I've heard a lot of ideas here today, a lot of debates, a lot of very nice attitudes, but I haven't heard any real thinking about something that's a post-festum of all this. How to install into this Law the best instrument for controlling it and preventing at least most of the machinations that are happening today. Well, my people, we all know very well, we're just pretending to be naive, how many humane agreements are made, but best man's agreements are made on BiH territory. This undefined state of public procurement is one, a paradise, a Janet, whatever you want, for the greatest hoistuplers and the greatest conmen and the villains among our ranks, as someone says. And they're doing very well. We know that very well. You don't have to break this over your knee, believe me. We really need to use all the knowledge of our economic experts, the people who do this job, because it is fundamental to them, to help us solve these problems. Apropo what I said today's modern states are suffering from it and are not... that's why I was talking about this little BiH of ours. We'll take the biggest one we know of, U.S.A. The U.S. Congress and the U.S. Senate have the most controversy, problems, and even mutual war, when there's a public procurement discussion in the U.S. system. And don't forget, they have something we don't have, a huge army. The lion's share of these funds goes to the so-called so-called. Military procurement, and that's where the whole war is going. Believe me, I'm telling you this from experience, because I know it. A lot of the best novels in the modern, let's say... The U.S., it's written on 68 affairs possible and assumed in the field of public procurement and all manipulations that don't take millions like ours, but billions, even billions of marks, you know. Even films have been made on the subject of skilled manipulations going through a huge number of legislative regulations protecting funds intended for public procurement, especially when it comes to the US military, and again find ways to take them. There's a saying in us here in Bosnia, we all know it very well. Every law passed by skilled lawyers is immediately looking for holes in it. No matter what we bring in, someone's gonna slip through it and do something about it. But give for the name of Bog, for there is no one who says idealism, there is no perfection, we will never be able to pass a perfect law that will really protect everyone from stealing any brand. Here's an open word. He will, he'll find a way, but let it be as small as possible. And it's exactly our club's proposal that we actually bring one, not to call us in the papers, on TV and on the street, that we're all involved. I believe half of you here must have heard somewhere that he's in one of those godfather deals. I am not, and for the others I do not know, let them do as they know. Trust me, wisdom is not in haste. Sometimes mornings are smarter than dinner. Please, at least think about our proposal that we gave you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19740	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19741	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. For several years, in fact, immediately after this Law was adopted and the public procurement area in BiH has been regulated, attempts are present to improve this Law, how to improve the problem, especially after a few years of implementation, after certain shortcomings and certain problems have been seen, but we have not so far been standardised because of these attempts, thus standardisation of the law, the inclusion of European initiatives, the requirements for some kind of breaking of the public procurement system in BiH have been parallel. And we finally got today's text which is actually a combination of that two. True, this was preceded by a law adopted here in Parliament, which practically questioned the entire public procurement system that practically broke the public procurement system in BiH and is included in these solutions. Now, as far as I'm concerned, and the SDA Club, we would support that standardisation and that improvement of the public procurement system, but if that's combined with breaking the public procurement system, as it is here in this law, then that's a problem for us. True, it's not a newspaper of this law, I repeat, it's already been settled, before a certain time there was a vote, a few months ago or I don't know 2, 3 months ago, here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And that will be a serious problem for us. And now I'm going to try to say a few sentences that apply to the procedure itself, to the standard itself, and to ask the people who follow this to try at least in a way to improve the text of this law. Who remembers in the original text of the law was the solution that it was not clear what was going on with the beginning of the public procurement after the Office of Appeals rejected all complaints, but filed a complaint to the BiH Court in the administrative procedure. So then this thing is interpreted so that you have to wait for the realisation of the procurement until the Court in the administrative procedure settles the dispute. It took a few 69 years and it was a big problem in BiH and it came to us on the Constitutional Commission. We have considered this and finally we have seen that this is something that is atypical in relation to our legal system, so we have decided on the Constitutional Commission, since we know that the complaint in the administrative procedure should not retain the execution of the final act adopted and the executive act, we have decided to propose an amendment to the law. And that solution is now in effect and it is repeated in these solutions, and that is that when the proceedings are concluded before the Board of Appeals, it is a final and executive act, it goes into the realization of it. Whoever presses charges can ask the court to stop the execution and that's what the court will decide. It is described here in a special way, it is not said that it is a temporary measure, as it used to be called when I was dealing with these things, but a security measure, as it is called today, in any case delaying execution, and that is a solution, and that is, let's say, one major advance that we made in the public procurement system because we simply unblocked the complete system. And I think people think we should keep going that way. That we should have continued to look for solutions within a single system to get as transparent as possible as possible, as fair as possible and as efficient a system of public procurement as possible. I'm afraid this kind of creation didn't get us into certain problems, first of all, this procedure and procedure. Here the law is called upon, so it prescribes a procedure and says in everything that is not prescribed by this law, when it comes to the procedure, please refer to the Administrative Procedure Act, so it points to the application of the Administrative Procedure Act, and in everything that is not materially prescribed or regulated, there is a law or there are laws on bond relations, because there is no state-level law, you can find yourself in that law. So, he refers, when it comes to material law, to the Law on Bonds, when it comes to laws, unfortunately laws, it should be one but not, and to the Law on Administrative Procedure, which, fortunately, exists at BiH level. Let's just say, by interpreting this Law to me it's not clear now, although I know how it goes in practice, when a statement of appeal is then a certain fee is paid, and it's not written in the law anywhere here, I suppose it's settled by article 108 on the basis of sublegal acts brought by the ministry, what happens to the fee if the complaint is successful, or if the complaint is respected? I guess she's coming back, so, but that doesn't say here, right here in Chan 108. And I don't think such a thing should be left behind, because it says – compensation is paid in favour of the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations and it is irrevocable in the event of an unfounded appeal. By argument akontrario she is reciprocated in the case of a reasonable complaint, but it does not say. It's supposed to be written here somewhere, because it's probably solved by the attitude of the 7th, which has been authorized by the Ministry of Finance to make that thing more detailed. But it's a matter of law, it's a matter of cost. Otherwise, I'd be comparing these members. Violent provisions are located where they don't belong. They belong in criminal provisions. But here, let me just name this as some kind of idea. I think the procedure should have been taken out of the proceedings that we have. It's supposed to be a buildup of procedures that we have in a misdemeanor procedure, in a administrative procedure, in a litigation procedure. So there are all these elements here, so I think that's how we should approach this. But it's all not decided for me, it's decisive for me next. And I'm asking you to follow me well, this is going to be a big problem, I was talking about it when we talked about the earlier text of the law. So it's about the law, it's about Article 93. Prior to that, he is a member talking about the Public Procurement Agency, and she also has her offices in Mostar and Banja Luka, and that would not be a problem, however, given the jurisdiction, but here in Article 93 speaks of the Office for Appeals. And this has a very big connection when it comes to jurisdiction, because Article 93, paragraph 7, states that the offices of the Office of Appeals in Banja Luka and Mostar will make decisions on complaints for the purchase values of up to 800,000 marks, which means whoever is not satisfied with them has nothing to do with them, but that this Office in Sarajevo, therefore not the branches but the Office, 70, because the Office is in Sarajevo and the branches are in Banja Luka and Mostar, will make decisions on complaints of public procurement over 800,000 marks. _________(?) Do. Over. In Sarajevo, the office over 800,000, branches up to 800,000 marks. And now watch out, it is said in the opinion of Article 93, the Office of Appeals will have two branches based in Banja Luka and Mostar. The branches will not have legal status, the branches will have stamps, etc., and says so – that jurisdiction will be determined towards the seat of the contract authority. So Section 7 says that branches of the Office of Appeals in Banja Luka and Mostar will be responsible for bringing the dole by appeal of up to 800,000 marks. The jurisdiction of the branch shall be determined according to the seat of the contractual authority. Now I'm asking, this issue of branch jurisdiction here isn't territorially set, there's no entity saying, there's no area, there's nothing to say, and I'm asking -- is the man who has the public procurement procedure in Bihaq going to appeal and with that complaint, if it's up to 800,000 marks going to Banja Luka? Is that the intensity, it doesn't say here? Will the person from Trebinj with public procurement go to Mostar by 800,000 marks? Or maybe it's imagined that the person from Trebinj should go to Banja Luka and that the person from Bihaq is going to Mostar, so this is to be locked up in entities. What's going to happen to the people of Sarajevo, the woman? Whether those people with complaints will go up to 800,000 marks, where they will go, if it is imagined as an entity matter, to Mostar or go to Banja Luka. The answer to these questions in this Law, not even in the existing Law, is the law that is in force. That's gonna be a big problem. So the solutions are overwritten. Lawyers and the overall process of public procurement will have a major problem. And that's why I think this is going to lead to a complete blockade. These things need to be clarified if they want to go this way. So this isn't a solution, so that's one thing. I haven't read local jurisdiction here anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19743	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19744	Mr. Chairman, just one more sentence, I didn't think I could speak for more than 10 minutes, I guess it took me a little bit to do it here, matter is like that. A particular problem is that we will now have deliberately broken public procurements of up to 800,000 marks and this is a complete collapse of the Central Office to consider complaints and break down the public procurement system. And that is why we will not be able to support this law despite our best wishes to respect European directives, because this is, in my opinion, the collapse of the public procurement system. We will support the opinions that go for a parliamentary public debate to be held. Thank you, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19745	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. 71 Here, I too have a need to say something about this Law on Public Procurement of BiH and I think it is a very interesting and important law for BiH, that so far these public procurements have been subject to the law and many additions to this law, and we are all aware of one fact that there are a lot of problems in the implementation of this law, i.e. there are a lot of illegalities. That this is so often we are able to read the reports of the Office for Audit when it comes to the work of BiH institutions and there has been no in each, or in the vast majority of reports, there we say that the Law on Public Procurement was not respected. So, in principle, this has become one rule no matter what size and how much the budget of any BiH institution, all these public procurements are important within the framework of these institutions. And you can see that it's not in anyone's interest to possibly centralize those institutions. I'm usually in favour of decentralisation, but here when it comes to public procurement, I'm here for centralisation, at least what BiH institutions are getting, so let's make that public procurement commission wide, big, but that it goes one place. But obviously there are great interests and resistances within the entire system that don't give it away Bog wouldn't centralised it, because he doesn't like anyone, as they say, some kind of cappella above himself. Here, there are no legislators of this Council of Ministers law here, I will ask us a few very practical questions, which seems to me not to be regulated by this Law, although I think I should support and support the principles of this Law, but because of these practical issues, I am absolutely at the heart of all those who advocate one debate organised by either our committee of parliament or the leadership of the BiH Parliament, and that all those interested in implementing this Public Procurement Act are invited to this debate. So those who offer their services and their goods and those who seek, and, of course, NGOs, because here we have kind of ignored those who offer goods and services. So I'm saying, since there are no applicants, unfortunately, and this is a very important law, I see here that when someone is already being awarded a tender, in order for someone to file a complaint to the BiH Appeal Office, they have to pay a certain fee to that appeal, so there you saw for some kind of tender, let's say 9 million marks or something, they should give 25,000 marks for the appeal. Eh, now I'm asking questions, I don't think this law regulates it, money is being paid to the scale of BiH -- what if the Board of Appeals respects the appeal of the one who filed the complaint. Is he getting that money back, that something's coming back, is it? Well, if that happened, then the law eventually predicted some kind of punishment. Here, some colleagues mentioned article 116, says – the fine will be fined for the offence, so all that is stated is the contractual body. So let's say that the contractual body is some kind of BiH institution, any ministry, or directorship, or administration, and then we will punish the contractual body with a maximum of 15,000 marks again to the BiH institution, and we will punish the responsible person with 300 to 3,000 marks. You know, a responsible person can be in the interest of, in a way, being punished. Instead of turning this around, that the contract institution is neither guilty nor indemnity, because the contract institution does not negotiate business but a representative of the contract institution, that we punish him with this great punishment and an institution as little as possible. And not only that, when it comes to BiH institutions to file a criminal application against it, or to be resolved by BiH institutions. I'll set up, in the context of that, I'll tell you one maybe unusual like this, but out of life one copy of 12 years old, if someone wants to give me a ride, it's getting old. So, I was able to open a public tender for the purchase of goods for a particular institution, which means approximately 500,000 marks. There was one company that was the most favourable in that competition, but I was advocating the interests of another company, because I was in a position. And assigned a job to that other company. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Interest, I had an interest, then I had an interest and I assigned it. 72 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19749	Let's move on with the discussions. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, discussion. I hope it won't be some example of life.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19750	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. Mr. Džaferović has already said the essence of the things we discussed at the Club and we should, here's a way to point out as a problem and he basically said that in this part, it means procedurally, when it comes to meeting the obligations of the EU Directive, fulfilled through this legal framework, to try to improve the efficiency of the procedure by new Public Procurement Act, to define more clearly the responsibility of those who conduct the procedure, etc., that I do not repeat these things, but that is essentially what Mr. Džaferović was talking about earlier. And here, if we had this Proposer to explain a little bit of things to us about this Board of Appeals and Branches that are scheduled here, maybe we could approach this very way of deciding, when it comes to the statement that we're going to have after the debate is over. Here, what Mr. Džaferović did not point out in his presentation, I will only add or return us, who follows this matter, to the text and say that in Article 93 we have precisely defined who these members of the Sarajevo-based Board of Appeal are. Here's one of the problems Mr. Belkić mentioned, saying about the precision of only the constitutive peoples, forgetting others, but here when it comes to the branches, here's how we don't have a story set up about members of the Office of Appeals that will function in Banja Luka and Mostar, and then the question arises if we don't have an answer whether these branches will cover an entity or some regional character – will we, in this way, come into the situation of work, in spite of good faith and 73 intentions, the Office of Discussing Appeals, maybe bring down a story of further corruption or some further non-transparentity, etc. Here's if this legal solution goes through we'll probably try to correct this text in this section with the amendments, and we'll be the participants of the public debate story if the law passes in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19751	Thank you. And dear colleague Niko Lozančić came forward for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19752	Thank you. I'm sorry I called so late, but if Mr. Jurišić hadn't said this, I wouldn't have answered. Here we go again. I'll say hello. And I'm not going to talk too much about the law, but I'm going to talk about a few principles that you'd have to keep to this law. We have a law on public procurement that was passed 10 years ago and we have a flood of various statements of different NGOs and other associations, associations, individuals and we have the perception of public opinion that corruption is the most widespread in this area. Now I won't bid on whether 10,000 KM is involved in this corruption process or not, Bog billion. The question arises as to why we passed this Law 10 years ago, in which we all complain, in one way or another, and why we are now changing that Law. What are we going to do, will we reduce here, with this corrupt activity in the process... of public procurement by passing this law or by not giving it to Bog to increase? So instead of billions being a few billion. I didn't find or might have found this in the draft of this bill, I'm saying this with... something I don't think we're going to do much to prevent corruption in this system, as much as there is. And what's essential here is that there are regulated bodies, so I don't list which are regulated bodies, which are one entity in the procurement process. So they have the appropriate social means through which they want to obtain certain goods or services, simplified. They're one possible, and without that subject there's no corruption, so without that subject. But it doesn't have to be. The following, who participates in this process are those who compete, who seek, offer goods or services to that regulated body. And they can, but they don't have to be subject to corrupt activities, but they can be. And the third institution that is in this chain of possible... or back-up, support etc., corrupt activities is the Office for the Review of Appeals. Without these three institutions, there is no corruption. So there's no theoretical chance of a single mark, let alone Bog's billion. Now, we've expanded..., experiencing through many solutions here that are given in the Law, we say that we have simplified etc. I come from the perception of an economic operator who wants to be fair, means fair, quality, in the competition to get to the part of the funds that are public funds, correctly sell goods, correctly perform services and in the interest of the profitability of his own company, his business, etc., but also in the interest of the entire public, to make it fair, cheapest possible, the best possible etc. And then we hear from the guys, with an apology now, I hope he was joking Jurišić what he just said or was serious about what he said, I don't know how much he knows about criminal legislation, it's the managers in regulated bodies. They're not in the whole of the law, they don't exist. And they should be responsible. And instead, there's a procurement commission. And who are these members of the commission? And they'll be regulated by a sublaw, they're not in the law here. Now these are the secretaries of these executives, especially the loyal people of these executives, especially the confidential people of those executives who will jump from the fifth floor of the institution in 74 who sits if that manager tells them because they depend on him. Because they're the ones who are going to assign a job to Živković instead of Kolega Sokolović. And when they assign work to fellow Živković, although he is more unfavourable at a price of a few million, although he offers fake goods instead of original, although his deadlines are longer, etc., he who is bereaved by the fact and wants to work fairly must file a complaint. Eh, we pushed him a little bit. I'm sorry to use this termology, but let me be clear to everyone. We have imposed a little higher taxes on him, or we want to discourage him from complaining, because there are a lot of those who, especially if they work fairly, have a difficult end to end with, besides these competitions, unfair competition, inaccurate, unfair, unfair, etc. So they don't have enough money to pay big fees for complaints. And they will give up complaints and guarantees that must be secured. It's all so burdensome for them. So we have all the instruments we've discouraged to complain about. If God Bog to complain then they come across the next institution, again which is not enough, according to me, precisely regulated here in the law. Who is responsible if that institution makes a decision which will be annulled tomorrow by a court decision. We don't have that part called the manager's responsibility. There's no such thing as a regulated body. And I think it's the lack of the law so far, and I see it's the same in this law. And I think that this law, as it has remained on the same foundation, is even more unfavourable for those who want to work fairly, will certainly not prevent corruption and corrupt activities. I'm afraid, if it stays like this, I'll see, since I'm not exactly an expert on these questions, whether I dare to act as an amendment, because I think a broad amendment should work. And I think it's good for this reason, so this basic purpose, the basic goal of passing this law in general, means that it is to prevent corrupt activities or abuse of public funds at all. These proposals are unsecured. That's what I'm fat convinced of. Are there better suggestions? I think that there are and we need to make it clear in this article, where, for example, the 83rd lawfulness of public procurement is being addressed by an organ manager. Point. And... I don't mind that, but he's responsible. I can understand and understand now, there were too many participants to come up with this text and it is necessary to satisfy the evaluations of everyone, I am not accusing you, don't get me wrong, but I am thinking out loud with this vivid experience of my colleague Jurišić, and thank you for your encouragement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19753	On the contrary, I see fellow Lozančić that you are fully aware of the process of public procurement. But here it is, around the replica, dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19754	You see how fellow Lozančić was inspired in this debate, how my discussion meant to inspire him. I forgot to say a little while ago, when I was explaining the law, but here's a lot of what my colleague Lozančić was talking about. Here's the latest example in BiH. So, the Sarajevo bypass, the thin asphalt, now we need to punish the Federation Roads because they've got a thinner asphalt, I want already damaged, we're all damaged because of the 2 cm thickness of the asphalt, and now we need to punish the responsible person of the maltene 300 marks up to 3,000 marks that, which means that she misapplyed that agreement on length, height, quality of performance and price. So someone deliberately failed to say that, and received the entire pub technically, and now we need to punish the institution, here in this case the Federation of BiH, and the responsible person, she has already been rewarded, should be rewarded. And that's why I'm saying that some things are upside down here. And this Law is true that we are not going to solve the very things of life that happen to us in front of us, but that is why 75 advocates of this initiative are being held at first with these very practical questions of people who would be at these discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19755	Thank you. Here's someone who's even better acquainted with all this, the esteemed director of the Public Procurement Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19756	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19757	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19758	I wouldn't if it weren't for you, Mr. President. On this note, don't always believe it when I say I don't know anything. I'm a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, and I wouldn't be here by chance if I didn't know that area. That's number one. And I always try to prepare myself for the topic that's being discussed, so it might seem like I know more than I do. So, so don't always at first believe that I don't know anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19759	I didn't believe it at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19760	I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19761	On the contrary, but when you mentioned me, I see you know these details. Dear Mrs. Dženit Fočo asked for a word, I think it'll be useful. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19762	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you for giving me a chance. Let me just say a few sentences. I didn't know that this law was so important and significant and that it was given so much importance after such a long debate. And this morning I was a little surprised when I got messages from Macedonia, Serbia and Croatia, a colleague from a related institution, happy, we're holding your figurines. But here, after all, I can see why I got that message. Please, I'll just take a few sentences. The House of Representatives in the last two years has reached 4 conclusions, in the last 3 years, this call, 4 conclusions in charge of the Public Procurement Agency, i.e. the Council of Ministers to draft a law on public procurement in accordance with EU directives. I'm sorry I don't have those materials here to quote your conclusions correctly. On the basis of these conclusions, the Public Procurement Agency prepared the first draft of the law in early 2011 and invited all interested people through their website to make comments, suggestions, remarks, suggestions. In these comments and suggestions, the largest number of comments were made by the Association which is mentioned, whose name I do not even want to mention with all respect, and in consultation with SIGMA, because all the time we worked on this text of the Law had the technical support of the SIGMA OECD. All 76 amendments and comments of the association mentioned, as well as other entities which have submitted their comments and comments, have been integrated into the text of the law. What was not on the background of the directive, which SIGMA considered unacceptable, was not accepted. Furthermore, a whole series of meetings and discussions were held with Acaunt representatives, the anti-corruption network in BiH, where we are directly in consultation with SIGMA and Akaunt, and we have seen what it is that can be accepted and incorporated into the text of the Law, and what it is that does not comply with the directives. Also, Transparensiinternešnel had a radio analysis of the text of the law and had made a positive statement on the text of the proposed law. Furthermore, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, also gave a positive assessment of the law and said this is a significant step forward. It was very difficult to make the text of a law that would correspond to both contracting authorities and bidders, because in all the processes where you have two sides faced it is very difficult to meet both sides. That's the first thing. And the other thing I would really like to point out here, and to point out that this text of the Law, all the derogations from the directives that exist in the text that say that it is partially harmonised, are the results of the analysis made by the Public Procurement Agency and adopted by the Council of Ministers in April 2012, which means that this law is a set of practices on the ground and demands of the EU. I would like to mention here once again, the public debate was conducted and even more so on four occasions we responded to the invitation of the association that organised the conference yesterday, and on four occasions we tried to present to them the solutions why we offer such solutions. I am not saying that this is an ideal law, I am not saying that this is a law that will solve all problems, but we must be aware of the fact that this is a system law that is directly or indirectly linked to other material regulations, which Mr. Representative Džaferović was saying. We are also talking here about some technical details that can be improved and improved through the amendments, and no one is against going to an even better, nice setting of this text of the law in the amendment phase. But until the moment the law begins to apply we will not see its weak sides and advantages. And one more thing that I would point out here, especially because there are representatives of the European Commission who have been involved in this process all along, that we really thank the SIGMA for all the help they have received, as well as the European Commission who insisted on this kind of SIGMA engagement and to announce that we have received this morning the information that SIGMA will participate in the amendment phase, means when the amendments given in the procedure are assessed in the amendment phase. So, I'm asking you nicely, let's give it a chance to get the law, and then we'll set it up on foot. Another piece of information. We now agree with the 2004 and 2007 directives, and a new Public Procurement Directive was adopted on 15 January. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19763	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Next three points of the agenda, Ad. Ten. The Commission's report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal to consider the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets under a reduced procedure in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure 77 Ad. 11. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MP Ante Domazet from the 57th session of the House, held on 20.11.2013, which reads: "I am launching a parliamentary initiative under the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare information on the implementation of the current agreement with the IMF, with an emphasis on the following issues: - an assessment of the eligibility of the IMF arrangement in relation to alternative ways of resolving instability in public finances in BiH (radical reduction of public spending, increase of taxes, sales of state capital and other resources of the state and entities, debt in commercial banks and other) - evaluation of key objectives from the letter of intention that BiH authorities have concluded with the IMF (economic growth, business environment, structural and other reforms, and secondly – the identification of new targets with a possible view of the implementation of the IMF. 12. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on a motion for a resolution on a decision of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council on the shortening of the time allowed for advertising in public broadcasting services programmes in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MEPs Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Anto Domazet, Mirsad Đugum and Mladen Ivanković Lijanovićć The college has not reached agreement on these three, these three reports. There's no discussion about them. We're moving to the 13th item of the agenda, as far as Ad is concerned. 13. BiH presidency's decision to put on the post of 4th Infantry Brigade Commander of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19767	I thank the chairman. It's a good thing we got finally, after two or three years, we got the BiH Framework Transport Policy on the agenda covering the period from 2013 to 2020. In essence, it is known to be one of the three documents BiH should have if it would like to use the funds for both project documentation for infrastructure, transport system counterstructure and its subsystems. I have initiated countless times a series of traffic laws and certainly this development of transport policy, but now that we have it, and a few days ago at the Commission, I was practically amazed. I think that document should contain far more of those elements that are necessary in such a traffic policy, but I can simply say that it is a document without teeth that does not bind or bite anyone. What was I gonna say about that? That these practically offered transport policies are neither clarified, explained necessary, at least minimum objectives, principles, types, elements, transport policy instruments if we are calling for EU transport policy. Well, it's a few times in that document, which you believe you read, but I think that if we look at it methodically, it's once emphasized that it's a traffic policy, the second time it says traffic policy, and then it writes transport policy, and it all refers to one document. When it comes to goals, practically in this document that we have received absolutely no part of it points out what we want to do. It doesn't have to be within kilometers, it doesn't have to be in parts of individual entities, but it was necessary at least in accordance with the Lisbon Declaration that defines, should at least say or focus on what the weights are. In the traffic policy offered, it is also pointed out that they, practically all themselves, are imperfect verbs, we will try, we will look, we will see. In the true sense of the policy of these spaces, but not the policy we practically turn towards and how we should. As far as the objectives are concerned, I specifically wanted to point out on the Transport and Communication Commission that neither the stated objectives of the carrier nor the objectives of the user nor the workforce nor the objectives of the company were stated. As far as principles are concerned, the principles could somehow be kept quiet, we would try to help them somehow, but the species only point to road, rail, air traffic, but there is no telecommunications as one important segment, there is no mail, there is no pipeline system, there is no cable system, there is no, I'm not talking about systems of another series of traffic. However, also when it comes to elements, the EU's transport policy includes at this point some 48 elements, Croatia in its traffic policy that brings the end to 28, BiH, according to our latest surveys, should have 21 traffic elements processed. Therefore, there should be a infrastructure developed, a superstructure, a transport, a financing of transport systems, a transport ecology, a transport education, a practical set of elements concerning transport law, etc. However, there is absolutely no word in this document. 79 When it comes to instruments, in part transport policy or price policy, regulation policy, then organisation policy or concessions, in which way it is involved when it comes to transit transport which European policy clearly indicates that it must focus on one of the systems that is in the deficit. We have been practically giving the centre of gravity only to road traffic, and all transport branches should be treated in the same way. As regards a series of elements that should be covered by multimodal integrated transport, nothing in this transport policy has been mentioned. I think that the members of the Transport and Communications Commission themselves, when they heard and presented the motions, concluded that this document, called the Framework Transport Policy of BiH, is not what we need, but I believe that with one, one serious, one more serious approach, this document could be prepared quality in some two months and adopted in this Parliament and said that we have one document that will practically benefit everyone in BiH, regardless of the organisation of entity, cantonal etc. And we therefore believe that this document should be referred to and returned to work. And I'll, uh, I've prepared one conclusion, so I hope we can make a statement about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19768	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19769	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The text of the transport policy ahead of us is the result of a multi-month activity in which, apart from the professional preparation of the transport policy proposal, the soft component, which is the alignment between entity governments, has been achieved. So the governments of the RS, the government of the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District agreed on this concept and the text of transport policy. On the very text of the transport policy, or content, it should be said that this is an extremely important document that provides us with harmonisation with EU requirements in the field of transport policy and allows the use of EU funds aimed at financing transport infrastructure. It should be pointed out that this is a basic document after which strategies for certain transport areas are adopted, setting out direct tasks, projects and concepts of performance, which were discussed by counterpart Jagodić. So we have a document that is very general, which is consistent with both the EU and I say our internal political structure. And about him, if we were to go to the end now, we could talk critically, it could be done, there could be additions, there could be an improvement of that document, not a slow one. However, the issue is now a political consensus, because this is what the political consensus is about. The recommendation to return to the Council of Ministers is not only focused on the professional completion of this text, it also opens a new process of political agreement that is..., so it is wasting time and at the same time uncertain. So we think, I think I'm saying this in front of the SDP Club, that we won't have any special additional values from this activity and we're going into one great uncertainty, a great uncertainty especially in terms of the time duration of this activity that the Commission, or Jagodić, today, in his discussion, should be moving in which direction. I would like to point out that the SDP will give consent to this text of Transport Policy, not because Minister Hadžić is SDP but because a political agreement has been reached at the level of the entities in BiH. And I would like to urge that we make an effort to adopt this document with a recommendation that 80 directly and, without delay, take action to develop strategies in certain transport areas. Otherwise, to say that the term "transport" in this case is to be treated as a term "wider than transport", but it does not include the communication policy of telecommunications, which Mr Jagodić spoke of, as telecommunications policy is established as a special document. Therefore, telecommunications has no place in this document, they are not content, therefore included in this document. So, I think we have the opportunity to take this policy one more pro-European step that will not reduce the value of the document, and it will open the process to open the way towards the EU in terms of the source of funding for transport projects and to start with strategies for the development of certain transport areas, rail traffic, road traffic, river, aircraft, and then those pipelines and cableways, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19770	Thank you. Next, a discussion, distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19771	Here, and I thank my colleague Domazet for giving us additional information, so this completely changes the picture. However, I now object to the following situation, so there was only 1 vote on the Commission, and 6 against, so those 6 votes against the assumption that parts of the government, representatives of the authorities who agreed with the text and whose representatives are sitting in the Council of Ministers. So there was obviously some interruption in communication. So this is a very similar situation with the situation I was talking about at the beginning of the session through the parliamentary question about the energy strategy, which we also do not have, where we are told – give two pages and put it up that BiH is. And obviously that's at this point the range we can make. The alternative is to continue, I called it suicide by giving up all possible funds and when it would be added together in the last two, three years, so of these strategies, Sejdića-Sejdića-Finci, etc., so we came to hundreds of millions. And I therefore think that at this point, regardless of the Commission's opinion, I think that this document should be adopted at this point, no matter what I act as an opposition party, but it is the responsibility of you who are the parliamentary majority. How it could have happened that 6 members of the Commission voted against a document agreed at entity level in the Council of Ministers, etc.? Can you tell us what this is about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19772	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19773	Thank you. I would just like to point out, right in front of my colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, that this document was in Parliament five, six years ago, that is, in 2008 and that it was rejected as such and that it was as it is. So, there was nothing in that period that made 81 adapt, and I said that in a few months it could be, two, three months it could be safe, but it had to be done by people or traffic experts. I have information that the two ministries are safe, but knowing the people who did it, that none of them from, I know that in Tuzlan canton ministers are people from social policy who don't have absolutely, I think we can do it seriously, but we need to involve people from the profession who will briefly say what our... If we haven't touched, let me say again, black spots, given that in traffic every year between 350 and 400 BiH citizens die on roads in railways, on rail crossings, on, in all branches and traffic systems, I think it's worth it to give us at least so much indication in this traffic policy what our goal is in this traffic policy that we should adopt. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19774	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19775	Well, let me say something, because I was among those who voted against. If Professor Domazet had received this seminar work from students, where professors are very tolerated when it comes to seminar work, he would have returned it absolutely, not once but five times. What was I gonna say? What Mr Jagodić said, this material was returned in 2008 where representatives from the RS returned it, did not vote for this Framework Policy. So we can accept it, so I can do something, but what our people would say - neither... nor smell. So it's one material that really doesn't deserve to be passed, because the competent ministry didn't get a damn thing to give away one material that would be determining. So it's one kind of copying, abstract expression of what, you don't understand in fact, nothing represents, and there's no differentiation between BiH-level institutions, so neither between entities nor between lower instance of government. The terminology used is inadequate, so they didn't bother to get the termologically in line with existing regulations, the existing constitution, which then made us, of course, vote against this. It's up to Parliament to decide what to do with it, but the material, I must say, is not worth it. And this one, Professor Domazet, thinks more, gives some of his projections than they come from this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19776	Thank you. No more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19777	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19778	Professorial.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19779	Well, it's not my observation personal. In a professional way, I made it clear that this document can be improved, only in a political sense do we have restrictions. And the observation, or 82 recommendations to adopt the document, is the result of the fact that we have a political consensus on what is in the document. And I'm sorry that neither the people in the Federation government nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are ignorant so that this poor seminar work, as you called it, will pass. Well, you see, that's our reality, that's our reality, we can't offer our governments a single Švajcarska transport policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19780	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19781	In that sense, here...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19782	Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19783	Well, it's this fact that it's hard to accept, the policies align here, the policies here, so everyone has to give, they can give their point of view, their opinions, but they line up here. And my impression is that the RS ministry isn't exactly at some level of the task when it comes to this material. I'm not sure they've read it thoroughly. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm not talking about the Federation. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19785	Take it easy, take it easy, please. This is a second replica, of course we can continue if there's any point in it, and you'll get the word, just because of the phonogram you have to turn to the microphone to make this recorded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19786	Well, no, I'd like to express great satisfaction with Professor Kunić's statement that the policies here are harmonized. So we'll soon have an opportunity to coordinate energy policy here. Now, if, if I'm mistaken, uh, I'll just say I'm faithfully interpreting Professor Kunić's statement. So, I'm as a politician pragmatist, not an idealist, and I think the fact that governments are in the process of harmonising this document, which we are ultimately making the final decision, so we are also agreeing, gave our consent that we have a political consensus here. Why now here in this place devalue it, that's it, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19787	Dear colleague Petar Kunić here, second replica. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19788	I wouldn't agree with you here, I think that you, uh, quite ideally look at some models, but according to your own vision based on philosophy from your own pocket, not on material. So that's my point of view. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? What am I, what was I gonna say?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19790	Wait a minute, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19791	We didn't have that agreement on the Commission from any of the entity's competent ministries. If we had that consent, then if there's an agreement then there should be written consent, of course. And we didn't have it, we didn't have it, here's the other five members that are...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19792	All right, I've got it. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to the 15th item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Rule 27(f) of the Rules of Procedure to limit all the following discussions by points to 5 minutes. It's the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. Review of MPs Mladen Bosić's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), we present to you a parliamentary initiative for the replacement of MP Denis Bećirović from the post of member of the College of the House of Representatives, in the follow-up procedure." Members of the SDS Club delivered the initiative referred to in the procedure on 10.01.2014. At yesterday's session of the Kolegijum, the initiative was decided to join the agenda of today's House session. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19794	Mr. Živković, I see that at this point you have limited the discussion, here I will not object about it, which I assume is a collegiate gesture towards your colleague from the College, and also against the strategic partner of the SDP with which you exercise power in BiH. 84 So, we don't have any illusions, we did when we submitted this initiative our assessment was that there wouldn't be enough time for it to vote, and there wasn't even the goal of submitting an initiative to change the College of the House of Representatives, but it was intended to distract itself and to open up a discussion about BiH politicians' policies and statements aimed at provoking and raising international tension. It's been a political sport around each other for a long time, some do it more skillfully, some do it more persistently, some do it poorer, but for the second time we're starting an initiative for Mr. Bećirović, whom the SDS Club voted to be in the College of the House of Representatives and when it seems to me, the SNSD was against at that point. For the second time, we are launching the initiative, believing that, as a elected member of the House of Representatives Presidency, he has a responsibility for his public word. To say that the holiday of Republika Srpska's Day is unconstitutional, to say that it is not in line with the Dayton Agreement, to elaborate it in a way that will cause a reaction in the RS, and in politics, and in the population, I find it irresponsible. I must note, however, that in its term of office, this Parliament has made some twist in terms of thinking about not crossing some line in mutual insult, mutually intentional accusation without any meaning. This has been much more pronounced in previous parliaments, it has been through various initiatives constantly present at all sessions, and here it happens as an incident. And this is one of the incidents, and I'm trying already, this is, how many, four years I don't use my dictionary to cause negative emotions in others, I'm thinking of other peoples, not crossing the line that's going to be demeaning and insulting. And that was why we submitted this initiative, to draw attention to unnecessary provocations that would certainly not contribute to better understanding and better working together. And why this comes the second time from Mr Bećirović, who is from a party that is proud of the team that is allegedly multiethnic, why Mr Bećirović is just making such statements as are coming from reactions in the RS, it is actually a matter of SDP policy, a matter of socialist policy which one claims to the international community, and the other trying to show the people. Why, from time to time, trained in the department of European tradition, put the fess on the head to show its citizens that you are allegedly defending their national interests is clear. That rhetoric still works. I believe that Mr Bećirović also won some positive point ahead of this campaign this year, I believe that he won the voter's reassurance that he will vote for him, but we certainly won't benefit from it, not as Parliament, but as BiH, which you claim to try to survive as a state in which everyone should live equally. Do I have to open the story here on March 1st, do I have to say that your initiative is about holidays, which you also knew would not pass this House, because it is clear to you, as we do, that this initiative will not get a lot of votes in this House of Representatives. Do you think that January 9th as a holiday of the RS bothers you more than we do on March 1st as the day you celebrate as the Day of BiH, that's the thing that we can discuss here for the next 10 hours. So these are useless initiatives that they aim to just collect cheap political points regardless of the effect they leave behind.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19795	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19796	I thank the chairman. As President Bosić said, it is about the cheap collection of points by Mr Bećirović and I will prove it with arguments. You have sent the holiday law to Parliament on the 25th. 85 November. And it's obvious that it's the Kolegijum that's sending the law to the competent commissions. He didn't appear before the committees in charge, so you could perform the performance you performed on January 09th. You can perform these performances as a regular MP, as a SDP official, but in SDP offices, not representing yourself as a member of the Kolegijum and as the chairman of the House of Representatives. When you represent such qualifications as the Chairman of the House of Representatives, you are required to respect this Rules of Procedure. I am convinced that Mr. Živković did not give you consent to such views. In addition to that, the qualifications you presented on January 09th as anti-Daytonic I must say that this statement is just anti-Daytonic to you. BiH's competencies are listed in Article 3(1). The BiH Constitution. Everything else is entity jurisdiction. Republika Srpska, according to its constitution, has the right to pass its laws. According to the Constitution and in accordance with the Constitution, she passed her own law. And the RS Constitutional Court said what he said about the law. So, you also dispute the decisions of the Constitutional Court, Mr Bećirović. But no matter what you smile, I know you're making a difference now, I must say that to me, I was really amazed, and I said, "my people, when these people on the side read what they think, who represents this country." This SDS coup opens the eyes of everyone in this country, and as it has started, this may become a major turning point in the fight for BiH. Well, Mr Bećirović, please say that you are stronger than the state, for action for your shift – a blow to BiH. Well, we didn't say that someone else in the SDP... and that no one would sit there anymore. And he says -- everyone realizes that the BiH state is more than any party and individual and that the devil has taken a joke when it comes to defending BiH's statehood. So, between one member of the Kolegijum and the BiH state, as I understand it, there is a sign of equality. God Bog, Mr. Bećirović, these are autocratic societies. I don't know, maybe some parties have rules like that. And he says, "After this, nothing will be the same again. You can see it's all the same, Mr. Bećirović. And the international community will no longer be able to sit with their hands cut as it has done so far. Our problem is that the international community has been getting a little too involved here, always on the side of one, so now that the international community is trying to see if this country and how it can function some here obviously can't understand that they should do their job for which they were elected by the citizens of BiH. And you've received a lot of votes and, Mr. Bećirović, I believe that those who chose you and voted for you expect you to do your job and not to do that job for you by someone from the international community. So, the qualifications you have presented, I must say, when this initiative was launched, what I later heard further convinced me how right we are and how not to sit there, and especially by starving your hospitality, in office of the chairman again, on Facebook television as a guest of Senad Hadžifejzović. I would ask Mr. Živković to tell us here if that's how you told us that in Belgrade you gave some lessons to the local leadership of the National Assembly where you were with Mr. Živković, I see Mr. Živković frowning. We also checked with the leadership of the National Assembly of Serbia – you didn't tell them anything there, Mr Bećirović. On the contrary, you were very kind, very nice, you smiled, as you are now smiling, but you came here and went to the media with one single goal to get yourself some cheap political point and raise international tensions, and to raise tensions in BiH. I also understand why you're doing this, although I'm personally surprised that you're doing it because you don't have any work results for these three years, because there's never been any worse living in the Federation, because there's never been more corruption, because there's never been any more crime. And to distract you from all this, you've turned to some other things. I'm surprised by you, Mr. Bećirović, because personally I don't think you're from that category of corrupt politicians why you agree to be a cover for some of your party colleagues for their failures and unfulfilled promises, instead of going out and saying what the real situation is in this country and you intend to do these unnecessary things. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19797	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19798	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman. I listened very carefully to the presentation of distinguished counterpart Bladen Bosić and the president of the SDS. In one initial part of his presentation, I must even say that I agree with the evaluations, which is in that section, so it would be good for all of us, but all of us, to focus our energy on the function of economic development and stabilisation of the BiH state. There were various grades. I'm saying everything I can at this point, and I'm not going to talk much because I don't think it's worth it too much, is the fact that no man has the power to forbid someone from expressing their views. So you are here a parliamentary party, you have the right to express your views and you are the masters of your views. I understand that. But there's one thing I can control, I'm master of my reaction to your attitudes, and it won't be at all nervous, or frustrated, or provocative. I've listened to you, I hope you've provided most of this time for what you've started and the House of Representatives will plead. As a Democrats, I will respect every decision of the House of Representatives. It wouldn't be the first time I've ever sat in a parliamentary bench, and there's no dilemma there. All this other, slanderous insults, groundbreaking things that a colleague can say about a colleague here in parliament, I answer that in a way that even more with respect I approach every MP. And when you talk ugly about your colleague, you actually talk about yourself the ugliest, you represent yourself. I, of course, will not talk in such a way but a completely reverse logic, I approach every MP as a man chosen by one part of the electoral body and he is here in Parliament. Of course, there are some things I really don't need to explain. In Belgrade, on an official visit to the Republic of Serbia, six of us were invited, next to me, the only colleague, Milorad Živković, who knows very well what we talked about and who, unlike SDS's man who didn't go there, and he could have, too, been able to deny, in one decent way, what Bećirović said. And these aren't Parliament's views but his, I don't agree with that at all. And all these statements, of course, are not only recorded at meetings, but they also have media contributions, and contributions from the press conference in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.../a short cut video/... To conclude, therefore, a legitimate initiative, the House will plead, everyone will learn from this lesson.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19799	Thank you. Dear Representative, House Speaker, Dr Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19800	Well, I don't think it's an unknown that it's getting harder to be a member of the Kolegijum and that as far as I can see here and here in Parliament, colleagues and colleagues don't kidnap each other to be up there. There are more and less privileges, or there have never been, but it has always had to be kept in mind when someone in the College steps forward of this Parliament, whether the chairman is either the first, or the second deputy, and when he does part of the job, which he has under the law, as an MP. I'm not here to be able to control anyone, to say, or watch some TV statements and react afterwards. If we agree that someone's out of office, either as chairman, let's discuss it together. I think this is all one big political thing and this isn't supposed to make this much noise. As for us from the RS, I mean a colleague from the SNSD, here we will support your initiative just give us a proposal on who will be instead of Mr Denis Bećirović. You who want to do this Parliament, who want us to do big jobs in this institution, such as the implementation of the Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci decision, want to behead this House. Propose a candidate and let us vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19801	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19802	Wanting to preserve a tolerated discussion, first of all members of the College, I'm just going to react to two small things. As far as the multiethnicity of the SDP is concerned, few can take the right to evaluate it, and in particular should not take it as the right of the SDS president. The composition of our club shows enough, and as far as it's concerned, it's facts. You've long explained your initiative but it's a general assessment that it's about politicizing something that shouldn't have been politicized. And exactly what you're accusing Mr. Bećirović of was your goal to choose which political point. Of everything you've said, I've remembered and the most impressive thing is that you said you suggested something that you know won't work. Then you and the Electoral Law seem to have proposed the same principle, so you're suggesting something and you know it won't work. Perhaps then you deliberately forgot those towns from the RS in the Electoral Law. You wrote the initiative to replace Mr Bećirović so that without the engagement of the College and the rope and the expanded she could never come to the session. You're the wrong members of the Rules of Procedure. So, not only did you know that you couldn't be removed, but you tried to write it so that you never entered Parliament. So, you're right, you suggested something that was condemned to fail. I invite all of us to finish this discussion and go to the points that are left and finish the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19803	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 16, Ad. 16. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest - Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly The Joint College has established a proposal for a decision. MPs were proposed from the House of Representatives: Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Lazar Prodanović and Zvonko Jurišić, delegates from the House of Nations were proposed: Staša Košarac, Borjana Krišto and Halid Genjac. 88 I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19805	So what we see here is that the ruling majority is also trying to master this Commission for conflict of interest. I am interested in why there is no SDS proposal here, which is the largest opposition party from the RS and when it is the Club of Serbian Delegates and who has even proposed Mr Staš Košarac. Namely, SNSD delegates, and DNS delegates, both Mr Ivanić and Mr Tadić claim that they never had any on the bench of Serbian delegates and that they are not aware of this proposal, so that we can clarify whose proposal this is. As far as we know, the clubs were invited to propose to the clubs, the Serbian delegates' club did not suggest Mr. Staš Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19806	Thank you. Dear Representative, House Speaker Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19807	We sat in college a few times and waited for all the clubs to send their proposals. We had a proposal yesterday from the club(?) Home to the people, and I'd love to if you'd like to take a 10-minute break to look at it. So that's it. Secondly, don't forget that this Commission is also made up of those from the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption. Would you like to mention who's with the SDS in that agency and who's here in front of you in this commission? If you want us to say those names, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19808	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19809	First in front of the SDS is no one. As far as I know in the Agency, there are people who can't be members of any party and are nobody's party staff. So the SDS has no one. The second thing is true, Mr. Tadić found himself yesterday at the Extended College, refused to react because he thought he was perhaps the only one who was not at the delegates' club session when Mr. Staša Košarac at the Extended College said he was a candidate for the Serbian delegates' club. However, after that we were informed, Mr Krstan Simić, Mr Rodić, Mr Ivanić, all told Mr Tadić that the Club of Serbian Delegates had not considered the issue at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19810	Thank you. I expect the professional service will bring the paper signed by Mr Rodić. But here it is, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. And if it's necessary, we'll ask for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19811	Very briefly, if I understand you very well, when I have identified the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption from the point of view of a party – does this mean that 89 is involved with the opposition through the people of this Agency's leadership. And by the way, I've come to ask - who's the opposition here, who are the opposition people? It seems to me that Jurišić, Mr. Jurišić, is as far as I know, and who is from the House of Peoples? Halid the Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19812	Do you think Mr. Zvonko Jurišić is not an opposition?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19813	No, I don't mean Mr. Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19814	What about Halid Henjec?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19815	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19816	Halid the Genjac isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19817	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19818	Okay. No more reported, distinguished colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19819	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19820	Mirasad, is that a replica, or is it a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19821	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19822	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19823	Or Darko Babalj first.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19824	Well, you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19825	Thank you. Regardless of what the College of Both Houses has suggested, I think this should have been discussed with the presidents of all parties' clubs. We didn't get to know this, we got this today, and I think this part was supposed to talk to the presidents of all the clubs. And it is absolutely unacceptable for us to accept what is not in the party's part agreed and also among the 90 parties within Parliament who, independently, are in a position or opposition. And I think this is an observation and that this point needs to be removed from the agenda, to consult with all club presidents and then to propose to the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19826	Wait a minute, before my colleague Babalj gets his word, allow my colleague Đugum to say that all clubs received a notice from the Kolegijum to give their candidates. So, all the clubs got a notice to propose their candidates, and then the College, according to them, considered and delivered this. It was no longer an obligation to speak to any club president. It was a matter of the Kolegijum suggesting this. We thought that with this proposal all the legal provisions concerning the members of the Commission from the opposition, from the position and everything else... On the other hand, I am obliged to say that 17.01.2014, i.e. number:... 2014, in small letters, the number passed through the protocol, signed by counterpart Dragutin Rodić – According to your letter No 01,02-34, etc., of 23.12. The Serbian People's Delegates' Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as a member of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest is proposed by Mr Staš Košarac. Please deliver this paper to the SDS Club. Dear Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19827	It's true that all clubs got to propose their candidates in front of clubs and it was done I think almost every club. There is one rule, which we have managed so far, that, however, at the College or the Expansive College, we also look at the whole committee's composition, according to the election results, how much room there is for the president of individual committees or the chairman of individual committees, and to choose the composition of committees in the College. It's always been so far. This is the first time I've participated in this to get written paper after the proposed candidates from any, from all clubs, that then only an extended College appoints members who will be, without consulting other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19828	It's not an extended college. It's a joint college.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19829	It's a joint college.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19830	By law, it was the duty of the Joint College to propose to parliaments and we did it according to the law. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19831	Thank you. I must really say that I am shocked by what I see and that I am afraid that the word, I cannot believe, Mr Rodić is a very responsible man, to tell the truth yesterday and be caught up with this proposal. Mr. Krstan Simić also said that the club was considering it, there were 91 Mr. Tadić and members of the club and Mr. Mladen Ivanić and one of them would suggest perhaps someone else. Yesterday, no one on this matter was, and Mr. Rodić was shocked and surprised by this proposal. I'm afraid this may be some kind of forgery that says that some here are being used with every means possible to have this Commission under their control.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19832	I think this has gone too far, given that there's an impulse here that the Joint College here has been doing something under the law. Given that, that's how I'm going to give these all discussions, and then we're going to see about exorcising all the way to the end of who is in this Parliament dealing with such actions. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19833	Well, Mr. Chairman, mine would only be a request if there was a way to put this back into frames, because it's completely visible that everything is regular, that everything is correct and that everything is carried out. I understand both dissatisfaction and everything, but to go to that extreme to deal with something that is not appropriate to this House, which I don't want simply to listen to, we have enough problems and obligations to deal with some other things that have absolutely nothing to do with us. And I think that, I think it's all done correctly, I understand that someone who's not satisfied with the proposal has the ability to vote against the proposal and I don't know how, I think we're turning this into some totally unnecessary farce. I think we should lead this to a vote and everyone, if they don't pass the proposals, will go through a new procedure and I don't know, because I know, I'm a witness that everything's been done the way it's supposed to be done. And I know that others are unhappy, but we can't go into things like this that have nothing to do with procedures and this Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19834	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19835	Well, I think this is incorrect, so let's say about Serbian positions, Mr. Lazar Prodanović and Mr. Staša Košarac. So I'm talking to the SNSD, it's not right, because it was supposed to be someone from the opposition. It is not good to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. It's not good for you to decide your own conflict of interest. You're opening something that's not good for us, I think for all of us 14. Politics is up today, tomorrow down, up again, down. What you're doing is hitting a foundation that's not good for the RS. Don't be incorrect, don't be illegal, don't take responsibility for yourself, because I repeat again, it's about the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, respect us, let us make our proposal, respect us. Open the door, maybe in nine months it'll be different, of course we'll be big, don't exaggerate, it's not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19836	Is there any suggestion of a conclusion, anything or debate no longer on this? If he doesn't, we'll close the debate. 92 We're going to the 17th point, Ad. 17. Appointment of members: (a) Independent Committee and (b) Citizens' Appeals Committee, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure (proposal of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes) You've received a report from the Interim Joint Committee with a proposal for a ranking. Žiko Krunić was proposed president, Enes Obrajlija as first deputy, Mato Jović, as the second deputy president of the Independent Committee. For the members of the Independent Committee are proposed: Mehić Jusuf, Bašić Ilma, Begić Adisa, Džambas Nikola, Miletić Mate, Kuravica Ljubomir and Škorić Miroslav. For the chairman of the Committee of Appeals, citizens were proposed by Vjekoslav Vuković, Bakir Daudbašić for the first, Borislav Radić as second deputy. For members of the Committee on Appeals, citizens are proposed: šut Semir, Marenčić Tihomir, Stjepanović Negosava and Martinović Aleksandra. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Ad. 18. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19841	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19842	Can you suggest someone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19843	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19844	Well, the best we had was the proposal we had. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're the best suggestion, the best suggestion. So there's no one to discuss. It's the 19th point, Ad. 19. Discussion of BiH Radio Television on business and programme existence of three public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19847	Thank you, Chairman. Here's the deal. I'll take a look around. I am in this Commission, and we have voted these conclusions, but I have an addition, so these conclusions would read as follows: I propose a addition to the conclusions of the Transport and Communication Commission on the deadline for the proposed conclusions. Therefore, the Action Plan for the restructuring of the Jano TV service from the second conclusion, the postponement of the application of the Code of Commercial Communications from the third conclusion, the analysis of the financial situation and the real needs of all three public TV services from the fourth conclusion, the repeat of the debate on the need to change the time allowed for advertising in public TV service programmes in BiH from the fifth conclusion, that everything mentioned above ends in six months and that after that, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly discusses the same. 94 Why do I suggest this conclusion? Because there's a lot of work here. I believe it could be done for a smaller time period, but this six months, I think, in any case, it'll be quite enough time. I also think that if we water this now, then if we water this in this way, it's definitely a question of when it's going to be on the agenda. The problem is very serious. People who want to cut short, means this advertising time for the public tv service can react, so even without us, which we found in the first conclusion. I think that by respecting this timing and meaning our conclusions shouldn't even be impatient in that case, but we should wait for those 6 months to come up with a better quality solution, it means to record the situation, make a cut, see how and in what way, to make action plans, etc., etc., so eventually it means that we see whether they will reach for that decision, or change their minds. But definitely this way I think we have a dilemma, and here I am honest with you, I have a dilemma, so how and in what way to do it. But probably when we get to what we're looking for in the conclusions of that dilemma, it won't be, or in the worst case scenario, it'll be smaller. There's something else I need to say. I asked BHRT about the transfer of the session that was here, you remember when, when it was the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, I didn't want to comment on it, so I asked it as a parliamentary question, I didn't want to comment through the comments, but here I want to get to know you definitely here. I asked why they didn't pass it on. And here today I asked them a question, if you remember I asked them a question in writing, I asked them a question – why didn't they transfer the session two days ago? To me, it is a very important issue, the most important issue for BiH, I think, is the question that goes directly from the International Court of Human Rights where BiH has lost its practical dispute and where we need to make the biggest shift towards the European path. And they didn't find it appropriate to transfer that session, and reconstruction, construction, and Bog knows what with the Council of Ministers gone, they found it appropriate to pass that decision. So they sent me an answer to my question, so why they passed on and didn't pass on any more, and here was the overlap one very important, and then they, I'll, I'll, I'll give some parts to myself and I'll give it to you. It says – it is our job to inform citizens but to enable public debates, and in brackets, such as the transfer of PS BiH sessions, which profile the objectives and interests of the democratic public. For their work and overall media activity, these broadcasters are only responsible to the public. Okay, so I accept that part, they're responsible they're quite fine, but that's exactly why, because of what they wrote here, I think they should have transferred the session that was two days ago. I must read one more thing – as specified in Article 1 paragraph 5. Public broadcasters are obliged to transfer sessions or parts of Parliament's sessions when these bodies have laws and provisions of exceptional importance to the entire public. Isn't that a Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac verdict you're talking about not knowing how much I don't know? It will also pass on constitutional sessions, and sessions to which governments are appointed and complemented. The final decision on the selection and method of monitoring of Parliament's meetings or election activities and events for which the widest public shows interest is being taken by the broadcasting team. I agree, I see the time is up, here I am. So, I think they made a mistake here, I don't want to interfere with editorial policy, but once you write an MP like this, here's the chance you've all had to read this, incorrectly, so we're the ones who can do what we want. Here, and we're now in a position to do what we want, but I think we're correct again if we accept these conclusions and my addition to the conclusions, I think we're more than correct and we didn't take the right to end things here and to cut 95 off as they sent me in this memo, and here you'll all see, or we'll all see how we'll answer this question I asked today. I think we're correct and we can't be objected to by the inaccuracy and interference and interference anywhere. And yet I can't agree with everything, and I'm staying with what I'm at the previous points of BHRT, and in the debate on this matter, with everything I've said at the previous sessions, I'm still staying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19848	Thank you. Dear colleague of Ismeta Dervoz's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And indeed very briefly because we have talked about this issue on several occasions in the last few months very comprehensively, last time we appointed new members of the RAC Council. I just want to speak for the sake of these proposed conclusions of our Transport and Communications Commission, with one small initiative for one small correction. So, first of all, I have to say that we all got these BHRT materials and what's very visible in them is that these are common materials that have been delivered by the Directors-General, BHRT and the Public TV System Committee, which I am particularly pleased with. So, we have for the first time really in the operation of the RTV system in BiH together. In addition, it is clear here that there is a solid legal basis for the examination of the decision of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and there are a number of laws on the Public TV System and the Communication Act with precise definitions. It should also be pointed out that there were well-intentioned initiatives by the EU Delegation and the OSCE Media Office in Vienna that also initiated the delay in making this decision to reduce the marketing time for public broadcasters to achieve and produce independent analysis and comprehensive studies on the creation of an adequate environment for the work and stable financial sustainability of the RTV system. And I only suggest that these five conclusions of our Transport and Communications Commission be accepted, with a slight change in proposal number four. So it reads – It calls on the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications to develop a credible analysis of the financial situation and the real needs of all three public broadcasters in collaboration with public broadcasters in BiH, and I think it would be more appropriate and precise to say – to develop an independent analysis of the financial situation and the real needs of all three public broadcasters. That's what I'm suggesting to be a change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19850	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19851	Oh, I mean, I'm gonna repeat something that I was saying, if I'm not mistaken, at the last session of the House of Representatives on this or similar subject. I think that, that it would be much better if we didn't interfere in the affairs of an independent regulator, because by meddling in RAC affairs, we're actually destroying the system that was set up as it was established. That's one thing. 96 The second thing, of course, my colleague Bursać took away some of the material that I was thinking about talking about, the fact that two days ago one of these public services didn't feel that it was necessary to directly transfer the debate on the subject which, as far as the public is concerned, the public service should be and declareably says that, it cannot be more important, it is a debate on the amendments to the Constitution of this country, it speaks enough. This illustrates enough all the known fact, I will repeat once again, which some will admit, and some will not, say it out loud, that we do not have public services, that these services are not in public function, but are in the function of individual national and political establishments in this country. And of course, I have no doubt that these political entities, whose functions these public services are in, will do their best to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19852	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the discussion. Before we move to the 20th point, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together discussions on points 20 to 27 of the agenda, because it is about giving consent to ratification of the agreement. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 27, against two abstentions, there wasn't enough entity majority. I understand that we agreed to unite the debate. Ad. 20. - 27. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, contracts, Protocols and Memorandums You have received the opinion of the Commission in charge of external affairs. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19854	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, we had a debate on the Commission in which we had objections to the BiH-OSCE Agreement on the area of arms and we asked that a statement be postponed on the agreement be postponed. Well, if it's possible our proposal is to postpone the statement of that agreement until the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19855	That's the agenda point of the 25th, right? You're asking to delay a statement on that agenda point, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19856	Yes, it is. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19857	Okay. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19858	I thank the chairman. Here, let me remind this House that a few sessions ago we adopted a single conclusion that this Parliament will no longer give consent to ratifications of new responsibilities until the Council of Ministers delivers one analysis to this Parliament in terms of and dynamics of debt repayment, the possibility of borrowing, etc.We, at least as MPs, have received no response from the Council of Ministers, I do not know whether it is required, but I know that this Parliament has adopted that conclusion. So, we still have one point today, one of the points of the agenda is the agreement to ratify the new, or additional borrowing contract, and in that sense I warn, or draw attention and remind you of the conclusion of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19859	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Is it enough time to vote at half past seven? At 6:30. [[PAUZA]] Please invite the SDS Club to join the vote, or to take a break so we can all wait for people to come. Take your pick. Here, I suggested you call them. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19863	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-01-23-0.u19864	He's giving up. Thank you. Point 15. – Consideration of MPs Mladen Bosić's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), we present to you a parliamentary initiative for the replacement of MP Denis Bećirović from the Kolegijum of the House of Representatives, in the follow-up procedure." Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 12, versus 26, abstention 1. I konstatuj that we have not accepted this initiative. 102 We move to the 16th point – Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest – Proposer: The Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. Before we vote on this decision, we will first declare on the proposal for the conclusion of the SBB Club MPs: we propose that this point and the decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest be postponed for the next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, and that the College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, together with the club presidents, propose a list of members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 24, against 14, abstention 1, insufficient RS support. Do you agree that we're leaving right now? I agree that we are going straight to the second round because I think it is very important that we get to this Commission as soon as possible. We vote in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 25, against 13, abstention 1, there was no 2/3 against either the Federation of BiH or the RS. I find that this conclusion has been adopted and there is no need for us to vote on the decision. Moving to point 17. – The appointment of members: (a) The Independent Committee, (b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (proposed by the Interim Joint Commission of both homes). We vote first on the appointment of members of the Independent Committee. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 28, there wasn't, uh, 10 abstentions. I understand that we voted on the appointment of members of the Independent Committee. We are now voting on the appointment of members of the Citizens' Appeals Committee. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 27, there wasn't, uh, 10 abstentions. I also find that we have confirmed the appointment of members of the Citizens' Appeals Committee. We move to the 18th item of the agenda – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Witness Protection in BiH. We vote on the appointment of MPs Petar Kunić, Mate Franjičević and Šefik Džaferović to the Joint Commission for Harmonisation. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. 103 For 34, Prov. 1, contained 4. I understand we've appointed MPs. Point 19. – Consideration of a BiH Radio Television memo regarding the business and programme existence of three public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission. We are voting on the proposal for conclusions from the Commission's opinion on traffic and communication. These conclusions are 5. Is there any need for me to read them? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 29, against 5, abstention four, a sufficient entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course. At the request of the HDZ Club, we repeat the vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 28, versus 8, abstention 2, sufficient entity support. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Saša Bursać. Is there any need for me to read these conclusions? I would like to add the Commission's conclusions on the deadline for the implementation of the proposed conclusions: – Action Plan for the reconstruction of the Public TV Service of BiH from the 2nd conclusion of the postponement of the application of the Code of Change of the Code of Commercial Communications from the 3rd conclusion, an analysis of the financial clock and the real needs for all three public TV services in BiH from the 4th conclusion, a repeat of the need to change the time allowed for advertising in public service programmes in BiH from the 5th conclusion, that everything above will be completed in six months and that after that in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of BiH discusses the same Please prepare for a vote. You can vote now. For 12, against 23, abstentions 3. This conclusion didn't even get a simple majority. Whether there were any other conclusions or not, I don't remember. It's not. Okay. We are now voting first, colleagues and colleagues, a proposal for a conclusion delivered by MP Drago Kalabić, which is to postpone the statement on point 25. – ratification of the agreement. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 19, v. 18. 104 At the request of more clubs, I repeat the vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 16, versus 21, abstention 1. This conclusion didn't get a simple majority. And now I'm putting the motion to vote that points 20 to 27 are declared in the package unless someone doesn't mind, because this conclusion didn't go through, that about 25 is special. I suggest we vote in the package this seven. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, against three, there were no abstentions. I find that we have decided to vote in the ratification package from the 20th to the 27th points. Point 20. - 27. – Giving consent to ratification of contracts, agreements, Memorandums and Protocols. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 37, it wasn't against, abstention 2. I konstatovati that we have agreed to ratify those agreements. I'm closing the 62nd session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 6 February 2014. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 7:00 p.m.
