ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3866	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow envoys, representatives of the Council of Ministers, international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and I agree that we continue the work of the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was suspended on 06.02. due to the lack of quorum, the session will now continue. The 36th session is attended by 13 envoys, of whom: 3 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. Ambassador Sulejman Tihić and counterpart Hasan Bećirović are not able to attend today's session for justified reasons. For the 36th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 34th and 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2.. Odogovri to the envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1- 58/13, of 10.12.2013; 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1- 36/13, of 17.07.2013; 5. Envoy Ognjen Tadić's request for an examination of the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-10/14, of 10.03.2014; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-48/13, of 28.10.2013; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Parliamentary House, Law No: 02-02-1 46/13, of 06.12.2013, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Law No: 02-02-1-26/13, of 10.12.2013, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-54/13, of 27.11.2013; 2 10. Proposal for a law on public procurement (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-59/13, of 10.12.2013; 11. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code (first reading), Proposer: BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, Law No: 02-02-1 49/13 of 05.01.2014; 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Border Control (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1/14, of 08.01.2014. 13. Confirmation of the BiH Presidency Decision on the appointment of Commander of the 4th Infantry Army of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-03-1177-11/13, dated 05.12.2013; 14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 15. The appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure (proposed ranking list of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure), number: 01,02-34-110/14, of 22.01.2014; 16. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Committee of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-14-171/14, of 29.01.2014; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Extradition of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia, No 01,02-05-2-1242/13, of 29.11.2013; 18.11.2013; Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in the field of veterinary cooperation, No 01,02-05-2-1250/13, of 02.12.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual implementation of judicial decisions in criminal matters, No: 01,02-05-2-1251/13, of 02.12.2013; 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, issue 01.02-05-2-1252/13, of 02.12.2013; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2012 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (Centralised Management), issue: 01.02-05-2-1316/13, of 20.12.2013; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, and organised crime, No: 01,02-05-2137/13, of 20.12.2013; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, No: 01,02-05-2-1326/13, of 24.12.2013; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-1327/13, of 24.12.2013; 3 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Security Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, issue: 01,02-05-2-39/14, of 07.01.2014; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol between the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of the National Economy of Hungary on the cooperation of small and medium-sized enterprises, No: 01,02-05-2-43/14, of 08.01.2014; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OSCE (European Security and Cooperation Organisation) in the field of defence and security, No: 01,02-05-2-44/14, of 08.01.2014; 28.01.2014; Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the MEDIA 2007 programme, issue: 01,02-05-2-45/14, of 08.01.2014; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the JP Highways of Republika Srpska – Highway Banja Luka-Doboj, issue: 01,02-05-2-64/14, since 13.01.2014; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement for the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW), Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (beneficiary of Credit), and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Elektroprivrede Bosnia and Herzegovina d.d. Sarajevo (EP BiH), (the project implementation agency) for the amount of 65,000 euros – Vjetro Power Plant Podveležje, number: 01,02-05-2-80/14, of 15/01.2014; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD) – Rural Business Development Project No: 01,02-05-2-144/14, of 24/01.2014; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty relating to the Loan Treaty for the Central Heating Project Pala between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2-166/14, of 29.01.2014. Is anyone picking up? Any changes or additions to this agenda? This is usually a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Since I don't see any reported or interest in the application, thank you very much. If there are no amendments and amendments, the agenda has been adopted and will not be voted on, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of our House. Moving to the first point of today's agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 34th and 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH We're voting on the 35th session. Please initiate voting procedure. From the present 13 - 13 is for. So Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 5 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I find that the minutes of our House's 35th session have been adopted. Moving to the second item of the agenda, 4 Ad. 2. Refer to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3869	Ma, I got this answer and I have to say that I am satisfied with it because it is very detailedly written and explained, and it is clear that BiH has indeed lost a significant amount of funds due to lack of the coordination mechanism, it is precisely said what the reason is. And I don't have any, I'm satisfied with all that, except I'm not happy that nothing's going to be done and that's going to be left with no money and that's not so little, that's 50 million euros. And I'm really calling on the authorities, if I may say, to deactivate this to initiate the whole procedure to use this money.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3870	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, like my colleague Ivanić, I am pleased with the content of the answer because it is definitely and very precise in which stage and where the bridge is blocked at Novska to connect the highway from Banja Luka to the road in Croatia. However, I am a little afraid of the response, or does this mean that if Croatia does not receive the funds, they apply to the European Community's funds, there is nothing from this time. Because unless Croatia is committed to ending this project without the help of the third, which can simply say no, we do not have a solution to this important issue for BiH. Therefore, it is also my suggestion that the relevant resolution ministry initiates certain activities, to see at which stage and what is the alternative solution if we apply for funds, i.e. Croatia applies for funds in the EU and receives a rejection, where we are then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3872	Thank you, colleague Simić. We have no other comments on the answers received from our colleagues. _________(?) 5 [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, thank you very much. I suggest we open a debate on possible new envoy issues. Please, if there's any need to report it. A fellow Košarac player, here you go. /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3874	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome my colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Mr Belkić as representatives or MPs at the House of Representatives, and especially Mrs Nermina Kapetanović, who has recovered and who today gives full capacity in her work. I would like to ask a question to the Council of Ministers – What the Council of Ministers is doing about the necessity of the Office's election to discuss complaints, given the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH did not select a new composition of the Office for the Review of Appeals, that the decision was given green light in the House of Peoples without confirmation. It is clear that it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to initiate the election procedure for the Office to consider complaints because, according to the information we have, there are a lot of problems in the functioning of the Office itself to consider complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3875	Thanks, Košarac. I don't see any more interest in new envoy issues, and that concludes this agenda point. We're moving on to the point of today's three agenda, Ad. 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples At the 34th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 16th of last year, a request from the Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending the Law establishing the Company for Electricity Transfer in Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure. Following the adoption of a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, pursuant to Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, representatives of the Club of the Bosniak People – fellow Genjac, counterpart Tihić and fellow Members of the Kapetanović pursuant to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have declared the Bill on Amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Following the declaration of that bill, a debate on the Bill's proposal was suspended in the vital interest of the Bosniak people and it joined the vote on whether it was harmful for the Bosniak people's vital interest. Since most of the representatives from the Croatian and 6 Serb people's clubs have pleaded against the fact that the proposal for a law amending the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been damaged by the vital interest of the Bosniak people, a Joint Commission has been formed to resolve the issues of vital interest made up of three envoys, one of whom has been selected by Croatian, Bosniak and Serb envoys, to resolve the issue. The joint committee for resolving the issue of vital interest found that it had failed to reach a solution and established the necessary, in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, the whole object to refer the BiH Constitutional Court to a further procedure. On the basis of the above-mentioned chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, he submitted, on 23.12 last year, a request to the Constitutional Court of BiH to examine the regularity of the procedure, i.e. to determine whether or not there is a constitutional basis for the declaration of the Bill amending the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people for further consideration and treatment. On 29 January 2014, the BiH Constitutional Court delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Decision No U:31/13 of 23 January 2014, which found that the draft Law amending the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina was not injured by the vital interest of the Bosniak people in BiH and that the procedure for adopting the proposed law should be implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4/3d) of the BiH Constitution. At the 59th session, held on 10.12. last year, the House of Representatives accepted a request to discuss the draft law amending the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure and passed the Law. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I don't see the interest in the application, and that concludes the debate on the bill's proposal. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law establishing the Power Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. 13 present – for 11, versus 2. Federation of BiH 8 for, RS 3 for, 2 against. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law amending the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We move to the next item of today's agenda, item four, Ad. 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3878	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored present. It will be very easy to agree that it is an extremely important law in BiH still in the process of returning to the border and displaced, BiH that has the constitutional arrangement it has, and besides the fact that it is an extremely complex law. The Constitutional Court has indeed said that this Law can be adopted by procedure as stated, and this procedure implies most of the present and entity votes as prescribed, i.e. that it is not (?) necessary from every club to vote for three delegates. Of course, the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected, but it is not irrelevant that the Constitutional Court's decision has given two judges a diametrically different opinion, and it is not irrelevant to state from the Constitutional Court's decision 8 which states that the issue of residence has a significant impact on human rights and has a significant impact on the return. And unfortunately, one finding that if there is an abuse of law that can seek protection, judicial protection. We should, of course, strive to pass quality laws that will eliminate the possibility of abuse and not refer to, if the abuse of potentially possible is referred to judicial protection. In the existing Law on residence Chapter IV and its Article 20, it states that the returnee is entitled to an easier re-enlistment and no other document other than a document proving identity or residence prior to the conflict can be requested for eased re-enactment. So, a document proving identity or residence before the conflict. If he doesn't have such a document, two witnesses are enough. The whole chapter that regulates this issue is not these changes... I note that in the existing Law on residence, also in Article 3. point 9. says the returnee is considered a returnee until he gets a ID card from the authorities in his residence before the conflict. So, avoided and displaced person when the returner needs to show a document that proves identification, gets a ID card and he stops being a returner at that point. They're facts and it's an existing law. None of it's been changed. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements has been added, Article 8 has been amended, which introduced the obligation to prove the legal basis in the procedure of verification... – apartment, house, in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, sub-optimal relationship, etc. And that's not controversial. However,... Article 8a) which states – the competent authorities are obliged within 5 years of the date of entry into force of this Act for each citizen with registered residence to carry out the verification... referred to in Article 8(2), (3) and (4). So the returner who returned, reported residence, got a ID card, stopped being a returner. He needed only an identification document for this, and at that moment he became a citizen with a registered residence. The new member of the 8th (a) is a resident BiH citizen. A new member is also told that all citizens are asked for proof of the legal basis, so evidence of the apartment, of the habitual relationship, of the home, etc. Thus, a returnee who has stopped being a returnee is asked for evidence that is not required when reporting his residence. This is an obvious incompatibility, which is obvious inaccuracy, and such incompatibility will certainly lead to and will obviously lead to arbitrary interpretation with the consequences of difficulties in return, which is contrary to aneks vi, which is contrary to Article 1.2. The Constitution which speaks of the rule of law, because it is clearly legal uncertainty, and which is contrary to Article 2.3. A constitution that speaks of freedom of choice of movement and choice of residence. So, only this fact and this contradiction, and this incompatibility of the solution within the law says that it is totally unacceptable and unnecessary to adopt such significant things with such evident shortcomings by an urgent procedure. The Constitutional Court said it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, and it wasn't his jurisdiction. It is also true that we have pleaded on this urgent procedure and are now having a debate on the law, but the debate that is being held on the law and all the conclusions that arise during the debate are, of course, put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as foreseen. I think the adoption of this law would be against Annex VII, either against, or derogating the level of human rights achieved in BiH, and I don't think this is necessary. What are we from the Bosniak Club for? We are absolutely for the complete elimination of any possibility of manipulation with residence and all these solutions will be supported. What else are we for? We are also to modernise this principle such as electronic signature and all other solutions that will lead to the modernisation of the whole process. And all those solutions will be unreservedly supported. And in this law there are 90% of those solutions. What aren't we for? We are not in favour of..., of ambiguity, of incompatibility which in this BiH may have tragic consequences. 9 I ask you to keep in mind the attitude of the Bosniak Club and not to vote today, that we do all we can to come to a solution. I think and I am convinced as so far in key legal projects we have come to a solution that we can come to a solution here with a conversation(?) And... This question can be resolved as to how the returnee is concerned and what he is obliged to prove in the verification, that is, to prove only what he is asked for and not to prove what he is not asked for. We can work it out, I think, and we need to work it out. We can have a modern law with all the solutions that eliminate all possible manipulations and that modernise the process and that address the issue of indeterminateness and incompatibility within the law itself. We can have all that in the next month. I ask you to hear... the argument and find a solution. As one of the possible solutions to finding a solution, the law is to return to regular procedure. And that's why I'm going to end this discussion with the argument that I made, in accordance with Article 9. Rules of Procedure, Article 70(2). Rules of Procedure and Rule 143(?) point (d) of point 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose the following conclusion: – Due to the complexity and importance as well as the necessity to remove the ambiguity of certain proposed provisions of the Amendment Act and the addition of the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is returned to the consideration by regular procedure. Since I'm a little limited in time, I'm just one of the arguments and the obvious contradictions in the law. There are more of them, and I think they could be removed by amendment action in a calm politically justified and correct atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3879	Thank you, Genjac. I assume your conclusion is that you also have written form, that we can have it with us. Other colleagues? My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3880	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrades and colleagues, ministers from the Council of Ministers, all present guests, I warmly welcome you to this session today. Here, in the context of the debate on the bill, there would really be a lot to talk about, but I will now focus on what my colleague Genjac was saying about the procedure. Indeed, this points to things and to the relations that rule in BiH and the necessity that a compromise and consensus on many issues are needed in BiH, so unfortunately, there are procedures that adopt conclusions. Indeed, when it comes to the Law on residence, I can say that one is a very important and fundamental law and that it really concerns both fundamental human rights and other rights arising from the Constitution, and rights of exiles and other categories. However, indeed when it comes to this Law, if we were to approach such a thorough law to be systematic, that it would be passed, clear, without any doubt, I think we should have joined at the very beginning and sought a solution to the ordinary procedure of this law. I'm saying this because today we have a situation that we've adopted, we've manifested ourselves in this House, and we've adopted the hasty procedure of this law. Now we have a situation to suggest a conclusion to return. We don't really have, to say, a foundation in the Rules of Procedure, and it really brings us back to what if there is political will and if there is a consensus of all within clubs, then there are some things we can change, which I doubt right now. 10 So here, in the context of that, here we don't have a business opportunity in any way, and we may not have consulted on these new situations, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, 15 here somewhere, so for a consult on the proposal that's been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3881	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Time out for 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] My colleagues, I'm going to ask you to continue the session. Since colleague Krišto has asked for a break, I'd like to ask you to comment briefly. My kolegica Krišto, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3883	Thank you very much. Here's a brief explanation. I asked for consultations on the new situation in terms of procedure. I tried to find both inside clubs and within the Croatian People's Club itself, try to come up with some compromise solution. Unfortunately, we didn't make it, so here's the break that was in the context of it, so we'll make a statement when we say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3884	Thank you very much. We're in that debate area on this wheel. Do we have any of our colleagues interested? Sir, that's a colleague of Raguž. Here you go, Martina.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3885	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs, the participants of this session. Since this issue has been opened by the Bosniak Club in a way that is open, and that is that certain elements of this very important law are further specified, and the willingness to have a constructive relationship in this precision is expressed because of the importance of this Law for all processes, not only of those concerning Annex VII, but of the overall relations in BiH, I really think that we should have had the strength to find space to clarify and fix this. That is why I have come forward, and as a representative of the HDZ 1990s in the House of Peoples and as president of the HDZ in 1990, I express my willingness to contribute to reducing political tension in BiH and to considering the possibility of amendment to this Law. It can also be limited by a deadline, and we can all come out stronger from this, not to vote on national, club or other grounds, which I think is too much of already in BiH. And in that sense, here I was just going to articulate here the attitude that I'm going to represent. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3886	Thank you, colleagues, Raguž. kolega Ivanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3887	I'm a fellow Genjac very, very truly respectable, but I must say I didn't understand the provisions against the returnees. I really didn't understand and understand why it was possible to check against the returnees and where the content is unless someone threw that thesis out so that everyone accepted these thesis. I am against any difficulty in getting people back. In my political career, I had a lot of challenges, and at a time when it was much harder I always advocated the right of people to return. But I also can't argue with a part of the argument that the promoter made in BiH, at least as he told me, a million people with an address bb, a million people with an address with no number, which everyone has the right to write down and then run in such a way. I, as far as I got the information, and I wish I were wrong, had this Law been supported by European institutions, especially those dealing with security issues. And that's one of the things that needs to show that BiH is, when it comes to security and general checks on people who live here, okay. I'd really like to, uh, see if, in the follow-up of the discussion, for the sake of my commitment to someone I want to have, to hear the argument of what in the law really makes it impossible for the returner to come back, because I would be against it, but it really has to be an argument. But if we're going to use, I don't know, examples of Srebrenica that led to the absurdity of MPs, where a group of people for their intellectual satisfaction, an intellectually different attitude, went public and checked out after the election, I don't think it was in the function of the returnees. It was a self-centerism of a group of people who were playing with these unfortunate people who were supposed to live in Srebrenica in poverty and poverty, and then they, like them, support it, so they only get there on election day and get away and stay home. It's not for the returnees, I'm convinced, and it's just an empty act. What's scary about me in this whole story, as I'd say, is one feeling that all of a sudden we all become prisoners, someone says something and it's over. Then no Niko has the courage to jump out of that attitude and start rationalizing these things. I mean, I'm convinced from what I've heard that we're not going to have this law and now you're just looking for a method of how it's going to be without the law being done. Will it be now that we have declared ourselves concerning you, and we from the RS will not be in favour of the law, and there will be no majority, and we will wait for the College, and the College will not be for a long time, and that the Law will not be, that it will be a reality. But we need to, I mean, make it quite clear that it's going to be that way and over. Why? I still don't really understand why. Because the argument that you're checking if you have a contract on what's called renting an apartment, an argument on whether you have property or a tenancy right, so people I don't think it is, I really don't think it's some kind of request that's jumping out of something that's normal. Let's say we ignore the returnees, imagine how many people can sign up for none of this. What does that essentially mean? That our data is completely wrong. And we've got the wrong data, it's showing the list. Well, we have more voters, minors, with registered ID cards than residents who are listed. And we can run away from each other now, tend, talk, talk, but when you have a number, Banja Luka can't have 160,000 registered, 158,000 registered voters based on issued ID cards. The fact in BiH is issued ID cards to people who don't live here, and they're done. A number of parties get votes on that. Take the addresses to which the ballots go voting in absentia, so you'll have the same addresses, by 250 people at the same address. I know my colleagues from other parties who cross the name of all these people there. Is that the real reason for this story? Not a big story about refugees, 12 returnees and miracles. I think this is the essence and that it should be present, and I will really always be against some provision that restricts a man's right to come back and live there normally. Who else would work is a racist. But I'm also not going to accept that these tiny little interests are dominated to that extent and then turned into a story of great human rights, of returnees and... That's how I see it. Excuse me in a perhaps more emotional way, but I think he's hiding behind everything, maybe now I've crossed the line, but a very banal interest of political parties for a few thousand or ten thousand votes that he won't be able to win in this way, and some who claim to be from the NGO, and very political, thus coming into a position to be MPs or I don't know to be elected. I may be exaggerating, if I'm exaggerating, I'm sorry, but I think that's the essence of what we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3888	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. Comrade Tadić, is this a violation of the Rules of Procedure or something? Comrade Tadić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen. So there's really a problem here now that we have to sort of plead out, obviously in a few phases, obviously about a few different situations, obviously all of this goes towards some new kind of possible blockade and everything else. However, this issue is in this form in which it is now being opened debated at last session of the House of Peoples. And there was no need to open a new discussion on this subject. And that's why I'm saying, according to article 74, when deciding... is one, excuse me, article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, concerning the declaration of a decision harmful to the vital interest and Article 162. The attempt to resolve the Joint Commission or to refer to the Constitutional Court of BiH, here is the procedure. We should only now conclude that the Constitutional Court has made the decision that it has made and joined the vote, and then raise the question of whether the measure is a good law, is not a good law, who would support it, who would not support it, which this one would support, which he would not support. And this had to have been taken care of. We've now found ourselves in a situation where we have Mr. Genjac's proposal for a conclusion on the table. I am now seeking the authentic interpretation of this Rules of Procedure has no member of the College who can do so, and the obvious violation of the procedure. There's a lot of random things in this country, but in some situations you have to say, maybe it's not an accident. So why are we discussing all this now? Why does Mr. Genjac even have a chance to suggest this kind of conclusion without having to do with the Rules of Procedure? Why did we meet in the faith of the end? These may be political issues, they may not be related to this Rules of Procedure, but I ask all those who create political relations both when they are in good relations and when they are not to respect these rules of play. And in that sense, I really think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking the chairman to stop this discussion, because there's really no need for it, and that we approach the plea. Saying whether the law is good or not we're just creating a political atmosphere that is not in the interest of any people in BiH, whether it comes from a Serbian, Bosniak or Croatian club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3890	Thank you, colleague Tadić. A colleague of the Košarac applied for a hearing. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3891	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you again and say, first of all, and remind us all here that we are on a safe path to create an even bigger circus in the institutions of this country. There have been enough circuses, but obviously this is an additional effort to create an even bigger circus here. On July 17th, the House of Peoples decided to discuss the Emergency Act. Why are we commenting today on any other conclusion? Are we breaking the Rules of Procedure? What do we do with it? Here is the apparent domination of the NGO sector in political decision-making in BiH institutions. Some political parties are the hostages of some NGOs projects. And we saw this project, it didn't contribute to the better lives of people in one area, and that's what I'm saying first of all about Srebrenica. I don't know if Duška Jurišić or even something contributed to better living in Srebrenica today, except for the confusion they made, caused problems. And when I'm asked from the Federal if I'm going to make a statement, then I say yes, in Srebrenica where Duška Jurišić lives. Do we want to legalize these tendencies, and to say that the process of returning is critical if we adopt such a residence law? Don't let us, we know each other enough, we can read enough between the lines, and don't keep throwing dust in each other's eyes. What is important and what should be said is that this Law has the support of European institutions. The law also has the support of security institutions that value certain phenomena in BiH. This law has support in the House of Representatives. He passed the procedure at the BiH Constitutional Court. So what else does it have to go through? Conformity procedure with the coalition "1. March’. Those who lead such a policy bring everyone in this country to a great deal of trouble. I want to say once again that the complete procedure has been implemented and that only today can we plead on the bill's proposal. We're breaking the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest that Mr. Genjac draws a conclusion and that we don't continue to make a circus in institutions. If you want us to do okay, but I think we should stick to both the law and the Rules of Procedure. I don't think we're going to solve this question today, either in this way or in that way, except to make a statement about the bill. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3892	Thanks, Košarac. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3893	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will deal exclusively with the arguments of the Law, so I will follow this debate on the content of the law and on the need to finally vote on this Law. I must say that this law is precisely why I read and listened very carefully today, but perhaps for the third time, not just today, a very, very studioy argument from Mr. Genjac. I might agree in part with him if we say that there are some inconsistencies but that do not threaten, which is the question of the quality of the possible law. But as many laws as there are here today wherever we change where we have the same problems. I'll talk here about the essential issue. I believe that it is necessary to say this precisely because of the citizens of BiH, and especially because of the return population, no matter what nation or nationality it belonged to. One - I absolutely do not see here in any way that threatens the right 14 returnees. I absolutely don't see it. What is it that prevents people from returning? Nothing. Even more ways to report residence, even in these changes it is more liberal already anywhere in the environment. So people don't have any obstacles to applying. In my opinion, by analysing these overall relationships, the problem arises in the concept of residence. That term is resolved, I would say, as a certain standard, that it is a place where people live, live, exercise their rights, achieve their health insurance, achieve the market they go to, etc., mainly... Who's stopping anyone? No one. Here, if we start reading between the lines and dealing with speculation, which I wouldn't, I have a feeling that the thesis is someone's that they want to create a fictitious residence, that people apply without living there. It's against all standards, it's against the law, it's against all those needs of an organized society. Not every law has introduced a category of dwellings, a place of residence for nothing. Well, that's exactly why we'd have a record of people's movements. And that someone from the residence is going to work for four months in Sarajevo he checked out and that he will have a place to stay, so that certain agencies dealing with these affairs could follow it. And I really don't see here any reason why this law can be declared anti- refugee, to deny the rights of refugees. Mr. Ivanić spoke in one segment, perhaps he was possible, me and while I was more active in the party I never dealt with the question of a list, nor this, which my colleagues smiled, who crossed whom or as we popularly called stealing election results, I did not. But I really don't see it here in any way, it's disputed from the conversation I had, the question of possible control. I don't see anything controversial here either. For what? Well, you have a situation where the obligation of the relevant institutions, above all the interior ministries to control these five years, is being controlled every day if someone has reported or abused the residence application. I don't see anything suspicious about what's going on. And this five years, maybe it's some kind of system of establishment, and even creating conditions to once establish a rule of law. I also agree with Mr. Genjac has raised the issue of legal certainty. Please, the BiH legal system and entities, these people have created legal certainty. A person who may be deprived of citizenship has the right to appeal, has the right to the Court of Justice of BiH, has, after all, the verdict, right to the Constitutional Court. So you can never, by law, prevent a certain institution from misusing its right. But you must create mechanisms that will say, but you have sinned to the harm of that and that, and it can be rectified. I'm sorry that about something, why I don't think there was any need to open up such a big political issue at all, get distracted, and, I'm free to say, international relations and create an atmosphere that's not good for all issues. I really mean this and I really can't find it, somebody convince me that there's any segment that says this damages the refugee, except that the refugee or the returner, whatever you want to call it, come back and live somewhere else and that there has a fictitious ID card, a fictitious residence, etc. I really don't see that there was a problem here, but there's often no problem in Bosnia and we politicians make problems we shouldn't be making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3894	Thank you, fellow Simić. Correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Tadić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3895	Here, since Mr Simić wouldn't have asked so many questions about why all this is happening, I'll tell you, Mr Simić why all this is happening. If you are looking at this Law today, then nothing is clear to anyone, but if you look at it in the context of previous laws and the law that comes after that, then it's clear to everyone. The SDA that has raised the issue of interest in the Elektroprenos vote now for Elektropresnos. Right? These others do not now vote in favour of the Housing Act, and no one will vote in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements that would allow early elections. Now... You got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3896	We're all clear. Thank you, colleague Tadić. kolega Simić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I need Mr. Tadić's advice, his analyst and his interpretation, and I am in some position, I will appoint him as my advisor, and let him keep his advice for Mr. Bosić and other SDS officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3898	Thank you, fellow Simić. My colleague Bradarić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3899	Good afternoon, everyone. I'll say that when the procedures were discussed, we from the SDP that we are here at the House of Peoples, we were in favour of emergency procedure because we were so offered and we found a lot of reasons for that. So one of the reasons is that on this Law of 3.5 years old, it was our delayed obligation, and related to the System of Documents Strategy, etc., and it is related to visa liberalisation. And it should be clear to everyone. Then, the public consultation phase passed, and they included persons who were the most throatful in condemnation of this Law, including the Association "1. March" for which we each had an argument. And one of the reasons is that the Council of Ministers adopted this Act in 2010, for which it was not represented by SDP ministers and were not in play at that time. For us, the Law was never disputed, this is the state law, undermining the state law, so this law is governed by the Agency for Identification Documents, Data Exchange and Records, and where luck is that as many state laws as possible, then the state of BiH would be stronger. The rights of returnees are not treated here, so the rights of returnees are intact, it says in the Law, in Articles 17 to 28. And I can repeat it five thousand times, here to make it clear to everyone, so you get in a situation where people call you and they say they're gonna take my property, and neither do I, in Doboi, etc. No one will take anything from anyone, the war was the devil took it away, so people have returned all their property, etc. In what state, we can talk about it now. 16 There is no control in the way someone interprets it. It's impossible for the police to go to a million households, so once they find you, you're at the first left neighbor, and then you're at the first right neighbor's house, and then the third time up, then the fourth time down. What does that mean? So they came to you five times, you live here, you went to the market. What does that mean? Will they take the place? Well, it won't, it's impossible, it's impossible, but, and it won't... so what else would the police do except make sure you're home, etc. So that's impossible. But if there are abuses, we've seen millions of examples of abuses, even when it comes to driving tickets, and when it comes to the exercise of rights, etc., so people apply to different addresses, and from that attack the CARGO Center, I don't know what, etc. The law has been done according to European standards, so according to European directives, and we must probably respect that if we want to go to Europe. Another thing if we won't, then we should say it, etc. And the law is... so in some way he allows you to sign up and log out of the house or from home, you don't have to go there spending money and heat etc. Therefore, 100 million reasons why this Law should be supported. But it's confusing in some way, this has been going on too long, it's taking too long, it's confusing in some way, and we've come to the voting stage, so we're on the edge of the knife. It's the worst thing to do when there's a revote in the law. So there is no clearer future of the law when it is revoted, and it also confuses the RS haste in the sense that they pass their law. Not the RS, the Constitution said who can pass this kind of law, the Ministry Act says who can pass this kind of law. And I know it's a trick story, I know it's a pre-election story, but then it creates a mystery like a mystery created by and the inconsistency of political parties from the RS in terms of every time it's talked about laws. Well, we had a chance yesterday at the Commission of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, it's about the transfer of jurisdiction from the Republic to the State. No law, such as this Law does not translate, can interpret anyone who will but I see it so, no law carries the transfer of jurisdiction and does not affect the RS as a Law on residence and residence. So it's a state law, an agency is formed, or an agency that exists is activated and will do so. Since we've been saying this too long, for these reasons, the SDP stands for, here at this point, but the promises have been made by others that we can discuss it, in a regular procedure, procedure, and that here today is a chance for someone if they have any amendments to contribute, let them explain them, etc. So, I was obliged to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3900	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. A fellow Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3901	Thank you. Since we at the club are a little bit outnumbered, you'll have an understanding of maybe even a little more frequent reporting. I thank you for correct and correct questions, and suggestions, and opinions, and I will try to make some of the questions that have been asked, perhaps try and answer. First of all, the procedure. The moment of initiation of the vital interest, the debate is suspended. When the Constitutional Court decision comes, the debate shall continue. The debate in this case on the content of the Law. And we're about the content of the Law of Discussion in progress. So it's in line with the Rules of Procedure. Next, Article 9. Our Rules of Procedure say – the delegate has the right to initiate the adoption, amendment or addition of laws and other acts, and to apply the other procedures contained in this Rules of Procedure, which the House must declare. Article 143 describes what other acts are, so it states that they are decisions, recommendations, conclusions and... And in point d) of Article 2 d) says - the conclusion is, the conclusion is made on issues in the individual matter concerning the procedure. So, on the basis of Articles 9 and 9 of this article, I, from the debate that arises, submitted a proposal for a conclusion. Next thing, in Article 70(2). – when a number of proposals are drawn from the debate on the agenda, chairing the vote, make proposals for conclusions in the order of the proposal. So far, we've had cases of a delay in the plea, when there's a vote on the law, we've had it in the last session. So far, we've had cases to change the adopted procedure of some law before the law was passed. It's a practice that was present. Because in the course of the debate on the content of the law, before the law is declared, I, as a delegate, have the right to submit every conclusion, and I am not prohibited and my conclusion must be placed on the plea. It's the Rules of Procedure, you know. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. Next thing you know, of course there's a lot of prisoners here. I'm not a prisoner of anyone's position. I'll prove it. A prisoner is a stand and one who never lets a compromise be found here. And the prisoner is the attitude and the one who can't possibly fix such a significant law with amendments. They're prisoners of attitudes. The prisoner may also be someone representing the positions "1. March’. That's right. Find me the position of the international community or the European institutions that support this Law. This Act is in accordance with the European Directive exclusively which refers to the application of the electronic procedure, the electronic signature, regardless of the content of the law, is recommended by electronic signature. The content of the law is not meant at all because this substance is not subject to legally binding standards of the European Community. The residence is a sovereign law of the state. Therefore, but with regard to the introduction of the electronic signature as a general principle of modernisation, it is one of the Directives – enter into the Administration an electronic signature, regardless of the content of the law. We are absolutely in favour of completely removing all manipulations in the residence. We are absolutely in favour of introducing a legally binding basis for the application of the residence. We're absolutely up for them to eliminate the bb application. We are absolutely in favour of eliminating applications in BiH Square No. 1, etc. And we can do that, people, and it's well done in this law. I had a direct question – how it affects the returnees and how legally... Please pay attention. Chapter IV of Article 20 of the Law so far, the returnee only shows the identification document, confirms, and proves that he lived there before the war and he gets his residence. It is easier to report returnees, refugees and displaced ones, because aneks vi requires it because it needs to be helped to return. And that's Article 20. Chapter IV, which hasn't changed at all and has remained that way, will continue to register for..., and receive residence. The returnee in the same law that has not been amended in Article 3 says the returnee loses the status of the returnee when he gets his ID card. He's no longer a returnee, he gets his I.D., and that's it. Now amendments introduce proof of the legal basis for the application of residence – house, apartment, etc., and it is not disputed, to be introduced, but to be introduced and checked for all citizens of BiH whether they have a legal basis – a house, an apartment, and for those who have been reported in a way that was enough just to show them the identification document. And where's the legal uncertainty? When I reported my residence, when I reported my residence, all I needed was an identification document. Now that the amendments to the law, in check, Article 8a, in the verification of the next five years will be required of me, not what was necessary for the application of the residence, but what was subsequently introduced, proof of the legal basis. What is my people but legal uncertainty is evident. Could that affect your return? Well, of course he can, my people. 18 I when I talked say it's not worth it to the returnees. Well, great, let's just put in a sentence that this kind of check isn't worth it, that for the returnees, they'll only ask for what they're asked to do in their residence application. And one sentence solves the problem. Is that complicated? So, all the stories, I don't know there either, manipulation,... one sentence solves the problem. What's the problem? Why can't we do that? Why can't we specify it to be consistent within the law itself? That's what this is about. And I think that with little will, far more complex laws we have formed here, fellow MPs and the list we have solved, Mr. Raguž and Mr., we have sat down and solved problems to the satisfaction of all. And we can work this out real quick. Why won't we? Why won't we? Let me, the same thing that I keep worrying about this member, if he keeps refusing to solve the simple thing, that I'm very worried about, too, what is intent. What is the intention so that it will not be entered into the law which is said to be so? Let's put that sentence in and we've solved the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3902	Thank you, fellow Genjac. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3903	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've pressed it wrong, I can't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3904	It's something else, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3905	Replica. I listened very carefully to my esteemed fellow Genjac. And now I would, and it really does belong to the greatest acquaintances of our rules of conduct. Are these provisions he read giving him the opportunity to discuss the conclusion again? We could reject this conclusion of yours now to vote, and then, in the next discussion, Mr. Bradarić suggests the same. How long? That's the first question that matters to me. Secondly, to which we return again, again you essentially confirm, in a certain way, my claim that this is nevertheless an attempt to create certain conditions that do not correspond to residence status. Look, the people who applied earlier have gained status, have citizenship, the law cannot be retroactively applied, they will not be subject to control. But today, but also today, Mr. Genjac, you can leave today and whoever signed up with that ID card, if he doesn't live there, if it's a fictitious application, the procedure can be initiated to be deleted. Here's the point. Why control, whether this five-year-old, whether she's a regular, is a problem. One who, well, eh, see that, shouldn't be a problem. If anyone reported the residence, they'll be staying here. And I don't see the problem at all with that control if the provisions are respected that it's a residence. And this, the control of these conditions, so all the people who went either had an apartment, or they had a house, or they had a grant, which is what he came back to. I'm afraid we're over-mystifying the relationship which means control. Control means whether or not the law is enforced and people are staying here, exercising the rights that it gives them. I don't see what's controversial, if someone's right, if he's staying right, if he's registered right here, if he's doing his job right, whoever it was, why is that controversial? It was a dispute for those who were on the presidency building. It's to me, I'm persistently vague in this segment, which is why someone is afraid of control if it's a desire for me to apply to this place because I live here? 19
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3906	Thank you, fellow Simić. kolega. Ivanić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3907	Well, we don't have a very good business definition here. It's got to be written somewhere, a replica and known to be a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3908	When we change the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3909	It's all some of the blames, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and they're essentially replicas. Come on, those who write write write a replica, a political replica, and that's it. I didn't get the argument that this was against the returnees. I've been given an argument that it's an argument that gives space to political parties to collect votes. Mr. Simić, look at the number of votes, the absence of the PDP, so you'll see that I don't have it, and look at the parties that get votes in absentia, and you'll see that they have it. Techniques. Once you copy a return card, or someone who doesn't live here, put it in a file from an e-mail address, please log in and send an address to which your ballot should come and then you get votes. That's how it works. That man doesn't even know that there's a vote on his behalf here. You know, one of the things. I'm not saying that in a particular case is the main reason. Is it really the returnee of the man who came, whose house was renovated, who sold the house and left, and is his fictitious registration that he was there to help the return? Is that really helping the returner? So, people, why are we really prisoners now? Refurbished, made, a man in the meantime sold that one, if we register it to live here, and we all know it doesn't live, so let's give it people, so let's not. I mean, what are we really doing? How can someone say something like that once, and we all accept that it has to be now, is of vital national interest. I don't think so. And I don't think we should... because once we succumb to that kind of ambience I'm afraid we won't otherwise have, watch out, I live with that ambience every day where the ruling structures mention some great traitors. And to me, that's what I'd say, the ambience I'm used to. But I have to, I mean, I really expect things that don't have that weight to do. Perhaps I, here to be honest, would vote for the law to return to regular procedure because in principle, I don't think there should be any urgent laws, that it wasn't all about this law in the past. First meeting with "1. March," so the promise that it won't go away, then vital interest in the procedure, so vital interest in the content, I don't know what's not going to be. I'm sorry, but it's the only argument in which I think the request to return to the amendment procedure is merely an effort to delay the process. That this previous one wasn't come and believe it, but it's obvious that for some reason this law will not be passed. And I honestly think it might be best to vote on him, because I know he doesn't have a majority anymore. The SDP won't vote for him because you voted on this previous one for Elektroprenos. And let's see it, brother, and let's know it's like that and let it fall and it's over. But let's not play games then who accuses who's guilty, who's not guilty, who's for the returnees, who's not. Someone said you shouldn't, you shouldn't, there won't be an agreement in 20 you shouldn't. I think there are two things that have united it, one is Mr. Radončić and the other is "1. March," and let's get our hands on it, break the law and move on. They won't have most of it visible, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3910	Thank you. My colleague Rodić will be waiting a little longer. Don't rush. Comrade Raguž, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3911	I thank you again, Mr. President. Here, we're all in the same situation to use the same mechanisms, correcting the wrong quote so we can answer some of the claims that were made here. First, when it comes to the attitude I have expressed here, it is not the result of any pressure on me, in any way anyone, either “1. March's coalition, whether SDA or someone else, not to speak now. He's the fruit of rational tampering with what's been going on in the last half-year on this issue. And we can all now convince that this Law is perfect, but if we have reactions to those concerned by this Law and demands that some things be settled, which we represent if we're deaf to it. I'm asking us this. I don't want to be deaf to it. That's one very important thing I want to say. Secondly, there are no cheap daily policy points, because here it is expressed the willingness to one amendment, not to question the whole of the law, to make one amendment clear and compromise and to all stand by that law. What's the problem with asking all of us? I don't see the problem. And we can limit the deadline, three days, five days. Let's be flexible. Well, we're not exactly home just here as the House of Peoples to take or leave, so we don't have to exist or exist as a home here if we accept everything the House of Representatives adopts. Then why are we here? And the fourth thing, I really think we're sick of voting, when we have the clearly expressed will of one national club that we're not getting up to listen to each other. I don't want any part of it. Well, I don't want to participate in a way that says it's not right. So, I think it's our way out, and no one's here to win or lose, to accept the possibility of this thing being explained in the law, with no one questioning this law, its need, and most of the solution, we absolutely state everyone. And I really don't see what the problem is if we want to clarify a very important provision that creates a certain kind, so even perception is sometimes, maybe there's no reason, let's remove that perception if we really want to create some atmosphere to bring people back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3912	Okay. We've got another correction to the wrong quote. Comrade Bradarić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3913	Just a replica of my colleague Ivanic. So, I talked a few minutes ago, but I didn't say the SDP wouldn't support this bill. I was saying how good the law is, but we were talking about procedure and here's some sort of phenomenon, etc. So there's no point in talking, pleading on behalf of the SDP whether or not they will support the law. 21 Second, we are not hostages “1. March's," I'll say right away. So in a situation where they listen much less to both citizens and in a situation where citizens have far less faith in them, they've just been sent out to us, etc., so we're neither theirs nor anyone's hostages, nor we're traitors. Every time I, I like this thesis traitor of the people, I every time I'm declared a traitor, me and the SDP... I'll remind you that's what they told me when I was solving the issue of the Boćinji, you betrayed the bošnjački people, etc., and you made it possible and opened the process for tens of thousands of people to return to their homes, in a civilized way, in one legal way. And all those who condemned me then came to me after a few, three, four, five, or six months to say good for you. ...so will these, and so will these, so if the Law passes I am sure that those who are the most throatful and, I said earlier, who participated in the consultations, and wondered, both the creators of this Law and someone who is at the head of "1. March’s participated in these consultations, the creators of this Law, gave consent to this Law and one night was broken, etc. So we're no one's hostages, but we're looking for ways and arguments how, if there are already, if we're already on the edge of the knife, as I said before, so if we're in the voting phase, and we are because it takes too long, then let's open up some possibility, if there's someone here has an argumentary amendment to consider it and to discuss it and make a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3914	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. Once again correcting the wrong quote, counterpart Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3915	Well, it's gentlemanly and manly to give everyone a chance to show the right face and it represents...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3916	Why manly, don't I understand?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3918	Why manly, didn't I understand?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3919	So male, then, let's not hide.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3920	Don't insult the ladies here.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3921	No, no, I speak in that anachronic sense, you know. Well at least you know, you and I are... The hercegovac, you know what I'm talking about. So here's the deal. Mr. Genjac, you have reached a conclusion regarding the already decided question, and in that sense your explanation does not stand. But you guys, if you want, we can keep it in the hallway so we don't bother people here right now, check it out, you'll see that I'm right. Secondly, speaking of the measure of this Law, I am also a refugee and I am in Banja Luka. The property I had in Sarajevo, or my parents, was sold, and 22 of it stopped being mine. What is the political logic, let's let someone explain to me that I'm registered at the address of the current Bosnia 14/15 and I'm using the rights... What kind of logic is that? What can I offer my former neighbors when it comes to my decision on communal infrastructure, the way they will live, the people who will represent them or anything else. What kind of logic is that? So, who's to explain this to me is to explain to me the well-meaningness of this attitude that's trying to promote it all the way here. And if it's not about the election, then if it's not about the election here, if this is a matter of human rights only, as you say, Mr. Genjac, here's an opportunity for you to see the next point of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law, which allows us to hold early elections within 50 days, and we know that only those who are constantly resident in BiH are on the early list for early elections. So there's no voting in absentia. If you've organized all of this, so just for the sake of human rights and not for the sake of choice, support the bill that SDS gave us, we have early elections and we have the vote of the people who live here. There's no question in politics that doesn't have a quality answer, it's just a question of how many masks each of us has. Do we need those masks? I don't need them. I can talk to you, here you go, and fair enough to talk to any of you. I have no problem representing my views, because neither I nor the SDS are in the underground. So, please, until the end, let's say what's going on here. Whether it's human civil rights or the election process. If it is an election process, then anyone from the RS can say it is an abuse. If it's human and civil rights, then it's a completely different topic, but then let's see what happens to my human and civil rights. What about Mr. Košarac's human rights? With all those people who would also want to have a double residence? Why can someone in Munich have a residence in Stockholm and at the same time in Banja Luka, and I can't stay in Banja Luka and Sarajevo? Why don't I be registered to two addresses, so I can vote in Banja Luka for the election, and vote there and where I came from, in Sarajevo? I'm not good with the law from that point of view. Let's do it, then we'll have a completely balanced situation. Well, then, as someone who has escaped from the Federation of BiH, I say: "The Genjac will not be an MP, he will be the one I say will be an MP." And where I live really, in Banja Luka, I say – there will be, I don't know, Stevandić or any of the other SDS candidates. Let's even ourselves up in those rights, and then let's say my human and civil rights is not violated, you will, Minhen, will you, Banja Luka, you are equally equal.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3922	Thank you, fellow Tadić. We're going to debate now. Comrade Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3923	Honorable chairman, respected delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Since this discussion has been going on for a long time, here I am going to try to say a few words, what creates certain dilemmas for me and to clarify some things. We have been, for almost an hour now, discussing and practically discussing the measure of the law and those solutions that are in the law, and we still haven't settled the question of whether we can discuss it in such a way or not. It is clear that this issue has been a matter of all issues in BiH for a long time, and I think the issue has caused a whole series of wrong reactions and we have come to the situation in BiH. I don't think it's just this question, there are a lot of other questions. And here we have heard here many times the word consensus and compromise. It is not likely that the House of Nations is the last institution in which there should be only consensus and compromise, and so far the Law has passed many and political alignments of the 23 proposed and authorised promoter, adopted in one House, debated here, through this debate, of course quite legitimately in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and certain processes have been launched and this has been concluded before us again and this Law has been found before us. I have to say this, too. Working in the House of Peoples, and otherwise in the field of parliamentaryism, I have always tried and I can say for myself that I am a man and a compromise and a consensus and that I am always looking for those optimal solutions that can ultimately contribute to BiH's citizens a better life. But it often happens around other acts, and this brings me back to something that was a month ago when we decided on certain requirements in the Administrative Commission, when we made our point, then we were told that these are certain legal precipices that no one understands, not going in the direction of solving certain things in the right way. As much as anyone ignores it, but at least we at law schools and through Roman law have always learned that both form and procedure is the most important thing for the adoption of certain things, of course there is an imitum. And esteeming what I have personally convinced myself, and for a long time working with Mr. Genjac, that he is one of the best known men of the Rules of Procedure, throughout this whole period of his legislative work, I have to ask a few questions that I don't understand. So in your initiative about today's conclusion, and to declare this House on procedure, etc., you have called for Articles 9, 70, paragraph 2, Article 140, point 2 d) and you have explained that. You just didn't call on Article 122 of the law that goes according to emergency procedures and that... point of the agenda. And I'll read it for the public, and then we can – when it submits a proposal of a high-level emergency law or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can only be adopted or rejected as a whole, the promoter can in writing ask the House to consider it in a single reading. The request referred to in Article 122(2) of this Rules of Procedure shall be considered at the first session of the House. The House shall decide on the request after the hearing. When this request is made, the debate shall be voted upon. If the House is adopted to continue to debate and vote on the bill, amendments to the law are not submitted. Four, if he does not accept the motion to consider the draft laws under the urgent procedure of the House, he shall decide whether the law will be considered in accordance with Rule 121 of this Rules of Procedure or in a regular procedure, means either in a shortened or in a regular procedure. Have formal-legal assumptions been created that we are deciding today at all on this conclusion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3924	Thank you, fellow Rodić. My fellow Genjac, is that right?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3925	This is my third debate. I mean, I don't know business, with my colleague, Kapetanović, I've been making arrangements, if there are any business obstacles to...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3926	You know there's no business, you just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3927	First, Mr Simić asked one question, i.e. the possibility of now adopting one conclusion, so someone makes another conclusion, etc. Of course, that's not possible, because it's Rule 24. As long as the debate takes place, the conclusions are drawn. When the debate is concluded, there are no more conclusions, and then the conclusions are put to the vote in order. That's what the Rules of Procedure regulated. As for this, if we had decided, first of all, to say, those who are gifted with psychics, so they know about these party coalitions and more than I do, I wouldn't comment at this point. And secondly, let me say immediately, of course, since we do not adopt this law in the context of the elections, of course we will not support Mr. Tadić's zakon, because we do not care about elections. Next thing you know, it's an emergency procedure. Let's be honest for a second. Here, now Mr Rodić has read, when he submits the proposal for a high-level emergency law. Was this Law an emergency? It's not. Or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can only be adopted and rejected, then an emergency procedure can be made. Are there any of these conditions? Of course not. So that's one thing. Next thing you know, I'm here, of course, for all the laws, and in the regular procedure, and the shortened, and the emergency, there's a debate and a vote. For all these procedures, as is the case with Article 122(3), the debate and the vote shall continue. For all the laws, all procedures are under discussion and vote. But during the debate, all the conclusions that are drawn and proposed are necessarily put to the vote. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. The conclusion is one of the acts that the delegate has the right to endure and I don't think there's any dispute here. Something about the content of the law again. There is no fear of control, let it be control of all dwellings, and let all dwellings be sought for what is sought. So there's no problem here. But I repeat, we, on the one hand, have for the returnees an easier application of residences, only identification documents, on the other hand in checks, which apply to all citizens, from this moment on, ask whether you have a house, if you have an apartment, if you have a contract. So let's either write it or write it, and we insist that nothing has changed for the returnees, so let's give ourselves up, or it's worth it for the returnees, and in control they will be asked only for being asked to enter their homes, or for them it's worth it, too, that there will be no easier application for them, but they too have to prove that they have an apartment and a house. Let's write it clearly, because now we have contradiction, we have incompatibility. And of course, there are cases to restore the house, to apply to, sell the house remains a residence. And I'm very interested in eliminating that possibility. I'm very interested in eliminating this, but I'm also interested in eliminating and the possibility that some returnee who is still spinning in some unrenewed house is being re-established in the process of returning, not to be exposed to some false interpretation of the law, or some application of the wrong law with harmful consequences. How can that be prevented? One sentence in the law. One amendment. And I don't even know what the problem is? One amendment of one sentence solves the problem. If there is no readiness and for that sentence, allow me, I am very concerned, what are the intentions and what is the tendency and I have the right, so I am entitled to be concerned, what are the intentions if no sentence... _________(?) What sentence? A sentence to say that when checking the residence for returnees and refugees, they will seek what they are asked to do at the time of their application. 25 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3930	Thank you, too. A fellow Vrdoljak, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3931	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that this law that has been proposed requires BiH, the fact is that I am more than ninety-nine percent with the provisions of this law personally agree, and so is my party. There's a fact here also that the SDA has entered this story about this law for a little bit of intent which I personally may have made clear, but let's just say, by my assessment, they're not quite justified. It is also a fact that MPs, or envoys in this House from the RS, are looking a little too hard for a solution to adopt it immediately, without any possible intervention, etc. What Mr. Genjac says is that the returnees who have an I.D., so based on it can apply themselves and it's done, of course it doesn't drink water, it can't do that. So the returnee would also be Mr. Tadić to his apartment that he sold, because he also has some identification document from '91. Or '92, I don't know what year. So, with this one amendment, which Mr. Genjac mentioned, it could not fit into that one amendment because it's a little too broad a subject, but I think it has a basis to allow the SDA to propose this amendment that this House should discuss. Namely, I personally believe that two old people of my age, who have, have not been restored to nothing, have no place to come and want to come back, according to this law he has no home, no apartment, no lease contract, practically the control comes running him out, or check him out. That's not right. So that detail in that amendment should sort of be solved. Of course, all this other stuff that sold the houses, which restored the houses, doesn't live here at the address, the control needs to take away his right to be reported from the residence. So my real proposal would be to the colleagues of the RS that Mr. Genjac is talking about only one sentence, one amendment, to leave those three days to make that amendment. After Dom sees whether that amendment is an unfair intention by the SDA or an amendment that drinks water. And I don't think anyone's going to lose a team, because basically I am for this law as it is, but I think if it can be fixed by this sentence I'd very much like to accept that correction with that sentence. Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3932	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. A fellow Genjac, a correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3933	Well, I don't know if we got along, just to be clear. In the existing Law, the existing Law, Chapter IV, Article 20 which has not been amended, the whole of the Chapter and that member, Article 20, reads – The Returnee who has the right to make it easier for him to re-apply to the competent authority, and all returnees under this Chapter have made it easier to report, provides adequate proof of identity and a document proving their residence before the conflict within 60 days of returning to their residence before the conflict. No other document other than a document proving identity or residence prior to the conflict may be requested for facilitated re-enactment. It is a provision that has remained unchanged in the current Law. The returnee shall be entitled to prove his identity or residence before the conflict before the returnee is able to prove his identity or residence before the conflict with other means, including statements made by that returnee or statements made by other persons in favour of the returnee. So, the man says -- I lived here before the war, it's mine, I want to report a residence, or two witnesses. And it's a provision of a law that isn't, it's a valid provision of the law, people. So, to be our case, it is a valid provision of the law that applies as an easier way for returnees.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3934	Thank you, fellow Genjac. Correction of the wrong allegation, colleague Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3935	When does the issue of the threat of vital interest arise if not before the vote, but in the middle of the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3936	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3937	I will Zamolić you, however, to conduct the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3938	I remember very, very well that whenever there was a question of vital interest it was before the plea, after they heard the argument and the debate about it and one comment, but I'm not predicating, I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist, so I don't pretend to know that. When I registered my residence, I wasn't asked for housing rights, and they'd come to control me. Me, too, and I'm registered that way, and no one asked me for proof, so let me say, so I'm so registered. As I interpret it, I really interpret that the person should be given the right place of residence under that law, but what is the problem with making sure after a while that he really lives or doesn't live, what? I don't see what the problem is. And it should also be given a literal interpretation that means that they will be given, but that person must be aware that within five years they will have control. 27 You know what I honestly think is at stake, a number of failed politicians in Sarajevo who can't get the necessary majority in this environment because they are irrelevant and insignificant, trying under the company of a great defender, I don't mean anyone from the current structures of the parties that are there, trying to create an environment and, conditionally speaking, there trying to present themselves as a great interest and find their political destiny there. Look in the paper all the time, you see who says they're going to apply and compete in the election, and they've made this ambience. And indeed they did, and I congratulate them, they were extremely successful at a time when they completely lost any political weight here found an ideal mechanism to promote themselves. And that's my comment, so it's not a replica to anyone. And I'd like to be honest, if I had a very good communication with the restraints of various environments, none of those associations came to me personally. And to be honest, I haven't even seen in the media these real associations that deal with refugees that they've commented on it, I haven't seen maybe I haven't read it well. Because I've seen one that's been promoted to be a renegade advocate, and I don't know that it's done anything but affirmate itself and very successfully did it, and from the point of view of some political marketing of these people even here we need to learn. I've won over the Law on these animals very many e-mails, unseen. I have to say, I've been given the law of a unique home number, but for the sake of this law, I've at least, not one, of any serious and refugee institution I haven't received. And I'm very sensitive when it comes to civic initiatives and right now you know, let's say, about this Animal Law, I intend to respect their views, because it doesn't make sense to me and I don't care who proposed the Law and how he suggested it. And you know how many times I've voted here against some laws that have been declared cobages of great interest national to the RS, and they weren't. You know I was also criticised for the law of my people, about the list when we asked for a harmonised solution. I'm not afraid, I mean don't put me in collective like you all think. It's here, I just want it to open up to the end, we're very skillfully put into a situation that now from the point of view of the national sea as to prove whether or not it's real on the basis of a single thesis that's completely wrong. Consistent interpretation, as I interpret Mr. Genjac, is that this man who now comes and says – here is the document, has the right to get it right away, and that no one, but that he must know that after five years he can come or for five years to ask him – are you there? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3941	Thank you, fellow Ivanic. Now we're in the debate again. Comrade Tadić, here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3942	The simple atmosphere is such, Mr. Chairman, that there is the possibility of many manipulations of all our statements here. And of course this seems to be a pre-election campaign and good, and if it is no problem at all, the damage is that we won't have those early elections, so we'll be campaigning seven months as we've been under, as you would say, under the sea for a year and a half, etc. And because of what, now I have to get involved in this, Mr. Genjac, and to tell you, simply that, yes, I don't know, it's above all correct for these people, it seems to me, that someone for my rights as refugees or opponents in the order of the Serbian people is struggling to fight me as someone who wants to identify me as a certain authentic status with someone who wants to manipulate the legal provisions, I would be angry, I would be angry because I want to be a loyal citizen of this country and that my rights stemmed from completely undeniable legal provisions, that no one like my status abuses its status on any matter and that we are all citizens here are fully equal to the law. In that sense, first of all, to clarify something, no special procedure, nor what the school would say, requires that a man be legally registered under this Law. The evidence of ownership, or co-ownership, or the possession of an apartment, house or other housing facility is saddened, each returnee shall have it if he is returned. A certified lease contract or a certified sub-unit relationship contract with certified proof of ownership, or co-ownership, or the owner's possession, so even if the returnee sold his house and wanted to continue living in his pre-war residence he could re-apply to anyone and exercise his right. Further confirmation shall be sought that a property dispute is being conducted before the competent authorities, i.e. a legalisation or registration procedure has been initiated, an apartment or a home at the address at which the residence is registered. In case a man doesn't want any improvisation around his residence, around his address, he's trying to say I lived until April 1st and that year, '92, at that address and if I haven't been able to get my apartment or house back, I want to be registered right here. That's what this law allows him to do, too. And for single and married partners, relatives, etc., nothing more than a simple statement is enough. I'm telling you that every man can pull this out of his pocket right now, because this is the documentation that every one of us has in his folder that if he doesn't keep under his pillow, given what kind of country we live in so he can wipe out with her, uh, don't Bog, then keep her safe in that first drawer next to him. The age of the day, the time of the night, where is this contract of the tenant, the purchase of the apartment? Here. Where's this? Here. That's every man he's got at the address he owns. And absolutely one who represents the attitudes contrary to this law does not fight for the rights of these people, has something else in mind. We have now heard that this is an argument by these declared to BiH Square 1 or the Presidency, I do not think it is your request, that you have the same intention to address these issues that some say are criminals, etc. And there's certainly no dispute between us. Why did this become such a couple of excels political issues? So because something was about to become a political issue, something was missing, it couldn't have been obvious, obviously this Law on Electrotransmitter quickly ran out of money in the Federal Government, and in the Council of Ministers, and in the Government of the RS, and give us what to be, uh, when there's that money, which we don't take and don't share, etc. Okay, you gave up on that question, okay. I think the mistake was made first of all for the sake of the citizens because I would be sure that the government that came after October would welcome that money. Now will be spent, okay, the people voted, those who were elected so decided, the story ended. It's nothing for a card to get along right now, it's more of a concern to those who will spend that money, because first we'll find out where that money went. 29 Second, there can be the impression that someone, as Mr. Vrdoljak said, is putting pressure on the representatives of the Bosniak people or those who want to help them in this, this one, as well as adopt today, ma mora, ma, ma, etc. It's not a matter of pressure, it's not a matter of pressure, it's a matter of procedure. Mr Rodić made it very clear, but I have the impression that he was not fully understood, so to speak, by all the people here, because that he was understood then we would not have had discussions and replicas on the subject further. We have, just for the sake of correctness and date, here it is, on 27 September 2013, the Constitutional Court made a decision on the eligibility of the proposal for a decision on the amendment and supplementation of the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens by emergency procedure, the law number and that, since 17 July 2013, and said that the request of the Bosniak Club is not acceptable. The completed story of the procedure, the story ended whether it was open debate on the bill's proposal and when the draft law came on the agenda again raised the question of vital national interest, at least my papers and papers from the Serbian People's Club speak. So then, you'll let me just see the date when, on 29 November 2013, from the Constitutional Court, so in my file it is now, here's to compare what the documents say, so maybe something isn't equal in each file complete, the decision on eligibility and measurement says – the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH, the number of the same since 17 July 2013, should be implemented according to the procedure set out in Article 4/3. Point (d) of the BiH Constitution. So now we're discussing the measure of this law. I would like to remind Mr. Bradarić who said he would now be in favour of a regular procedure, Mr. Vrdoljak who said he would be for regular procedure, and other delegates who said they would be for regular procedure too. So we have a decision of the Constitutional Court, a decision of the Constitutional Court that says – please, if you haven't discussed the content of the law, discuss it, but vote on it, it says – act in accordance with Article 4/3. point d). What's a 4/3. Point d), I have been following this particularly closely since this morning, for the sake of this false accusation that the SDS has proposed a Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Election Law that abolishes entity voting. It's a decision that says that all decisions, all decisions, therefore, are made, that all decisions are made, in a way that respects entity voting and all that is meant to be. So, the Constitutional Court says – approach the vote, join the vote. Now, the basic problem here is that there is no Mr. Tihić here. If Mr. Tihić were there, we would have the opportunity to, if we had an authentic interpretation of this Rules of Procedure and to know that the conclusion, the proposed conclusion of Mr. Genjac is not, as he would say, there is no room in this procedure. But here, since there is no Mr. Tihić, for justifiable reasons, I ask those delegates who have declared that they would now return all this story for a moment before two decisions of the Constitutional Court, that they imagine themselves in the role of Mr. Tihić, members of the College and say – so why should we now be doing something that the Constitutional Court has already decided twice? Why? I don't see why. If this Law had already been adopted, that it had already been adopted, it could have been long ago in “the Official Messenger. ” Immediately, Mr. Genjac could have written a law on the boundaries and additions of this Law, and it might have been resolved if all these people who said they supported it for these reasons for which they said they would support such a proposal. But since we don't have that, since we have a political game, because we have dishonest relations about mutual assistance when it comes to national interests, and very frankly, when it comes to the distribution of Elektroprenos funds, then I'm asking you just to let those who don't go in that basket know we're different and that no one tomorrow because we voted for the Law on residence doesn't accuse us of being against the interests of the Bosniak people or because we didn't vote for the Law on Electrotrans not to accuse us because there are some means and we don't give them as to God's people and citizens. So this is the only requirement I have for the public above all, and of course also for those colleagues whose political values and interests are ahead of the short-term, as far as I can see, and increasingly short-term inter-party relations. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3943	Thank you, colleague Tadić. A fellow Genjac, a correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3944	Therefore, the first decision of the Constitutional Court when the issue of destruction in the vital interest of the Constitutional Court procedure was addressed, the Constitutional Court does not consider it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The court does not consider procedural issues, the court does not consider procedural issues, a closed question. The second decision of the Constitutional Court is not a decision to proceed with the vote, the Constitutional Court's decision on the grounds of a declaration of destruction in the vital interest of the measure – the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law should be implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4/3. Point (d) of the BiH Constitution. So there could be a decision here to implement the procedure where three votes should be taken from each club, when it's destructive and to carry out the usual vote when it's not destructive. It's just a constitutional decision. Therefore, since it is not destructive to implement the adoption procedure according to the above, which means the ordinary majority and entity votes, that is so. This is, therefore, not the Constitutional Court said vote, but implement the adoption procedure according to that and that. That's one thing, so I think we're clear here, I think we can agree here that the Constitutional Court's decisions on these issues relate to these matters. For the work of this House should not be sought in these decisions of the Constitutional Court, a foothold should be sought in the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure offer a foothold for all, and I have quoted the points and practices we have had, the practice based on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure on which I am based. So, just to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3946	Thank you, Genjac. We have another debate, Comrade Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3947	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. By listening to a careful debate and seeing everyone discussing the measure of the law and I want to say here that I don't feel like I'm in one piece and we should all act like we're not in those baskets, we're all carefully and well interpreting the Rules of Procedure and everyone has convinced me that they're right and they're not right. Ladies and gentlemen, it's our decision here today to compromise, to get out of this situation or to nail this thing and make another problem, and we have as many problems as you want. So, what colleagues of Raguž and Vrdoljak have suggested, I suggest, indeed, if there are any dilemmas, fears that this law may be bad for the returnees to remove these things. Indeed, we leave a few days, allow the amendments to be made, so that all that our colleague Tadić is saying is that we should remove it in that procedure in those few days and, yes, or we should make a statement about the conclusion, so that 31 we can nail things and that we have more problems. And I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do that, so let's leave a few days so we can convince our colleague Halid if he's right, whether he's right, whether he's worried or not. Gentlemen, it's our turn to compromise this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3948	Okay. Thank you, colleague Krešić. I was just about to say that we've exhausted the debate so we can do something else in the Rules of Procedure, but colleague Ivanić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, colleague Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3949	I'm sorry, I'm not this persistent otherwise, but on this law, I really want to separate pure politics from the content of the law itself. I'm a pure politician if anyone understands me, I've been in it for so many years that I can know, but I don't like it when pure politics tries to base itself on the divine great interests of a population and then those who are against the returnees. I've worked harder for returnees in the RS than, now I don't want to talk about who, who are here, who are calling behind this. To be honest, when the riots were unlike the politicians who... ran away, I went among the Bošnjak and was there with them. And I absolutely don't accept the story that supporting the law means fighting the returnees, and I won't accept that argument, I won't, and that's why I'm so persistent. And I get what we have here, we're going to make a statement now about the conclusion, there won't be much to conclude, it's going to be a consensus in the College, I miss Mr. Tihić very much, personally, but I know we won't have a chance to agree on it, and that's how it's going to stay. And what did we get? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, Bog, I'm really gonna be happy, because I'm telling you honestly, and you know that I honestly mean it, and I believe he's here to break a lot of things already. But they'll get away with it and they won't be. Let's bring the brother down, then let's keep him alive, let's make sure everyone who thinks it's urgent to bring this law down on a regular basis and get back in the process. Let's not hide, I don't think we're hiding, we're making hypocrisy out of it. But then when the law is broken, it is known who was against the law, then there is no public court, nor this, nor that, but who is it. Then the party that knocked him down should propose a new one, first thing tomorrow, have the right to an emergency procedure by the Rules of Procedure and that the next session be immediately the new rightful one and the one in the role of this returnee. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3951	You have no reason to. There's only one replica on you. A fellow Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3952	Thank you. 32 Now it refers directly to what Mr Ivanić said. He is persistent and he impresses these tenacitys, but I also think that this tenacity should not go in the direction that those who wanted to fix this law and remove the ambiguities you call here to the public that they are against this law, and therefore it is not fair, I mean it is not fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3953	Thank you very much. I'm going to be, uh, I'm going to be a little bit like this right now, here in the end, I haven't commented so far, because there are no more reports to discuss, and neither is the replica, we used 11 discussions, if I count well, and just so many replicas about this debate. And since we all said what we thought about the Rules of Procedure and you were all right because you answered each other, you all said what you thought about the Law itself, because the debate was open after the session that we had, and you know it, 05.11.2013, the debate was not concluded, it was interrupted by calls of vital national interest and here today we have concluded the debate. And if, look, you all agree that there's no more debate, then we'll say that the debate is closed. And then we'll use the Rules of Procedure again to discuss what we need to discuss in order to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Here, I wait carefully, no one has any interest and I suggest we conclude the debate on this agenda point. Now, again using the Rules of Procedure, whatever it is, we adopt it, when we need a better word, and we're going to discuss it, and he's saying that every single one of us can at any moment suggest a lot of what it says in that Rules of Procedure, as well as the conclusion, as he also says that every one of us can answer countless times for discussion and replication, so there's no limit, and I'm sure we've sent to everyone we wanted the messages we wanted. The results of these messages will someday be seen and echoed on them. We now have the remaining activity, which has already been commented on several times here, it is business to make clear on the conclusion proposed by our colleague Genjac, and after that statement we will have further activities, again according to the Rules of Procedure. The conclusion of a fellow Genjac. Invoking myself in accordance with Article 9 of Article 70(2) and Article 143 paragraph 2 d) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose the following conclusion: Due to complexity and importance, as well as necessity...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3954	Tadić reports...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3956	So, if we're literally sticking to the Rules of Procedure I'm going to look for this member, the speed was so I can't remember exactly, maybe Marin will do it in the meantime, he says, if I'm right, that 33 when the debate is concluded is first voted on by the law, then the conclusions. You could use the right to vote on the conclusion during the debate, and that is now over, Mr. Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3957	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3958	No, so run a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3959	So I'll continue to lead only you finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3960	So now you should stop reading and explaining, or as you have already imagined, the proposed conclusion of Mr Genjac, that we should approach the vote on the law, so if it makes any sense to vote on that conclusion later, then we will also vote on the conclusion, that is what the Rules of Procedure says. Marin will find it very soon. If you had reached a conclusion during the debate and asked the question of procedure, that would have been another question. I'm not to blame for this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3961	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3962	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3963	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let's hear it from the Secretary General.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3964	I don't see it here, I don't know what article...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3965	You'd like to make an accurate reference to an article, so I'd like to comment on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3966	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3967	A five-minute break at the request of counterpart Tadić. [[PAUZA]] Okay. Dear colleagues, I suggest we continue, the break is over. Comrade Tadić, do you mind if we... comment? 34
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3969	We will. Mr. Chairman, therefore my advertising of the Rules of Procedure referred to Rule 113. So she's tied to the procedure when the final decision is made. She says the decision consists of a debate and a vote on the proposed amendments, i.e. when there is an amendment to the next order... relating. Since we don't have amendments here because it's an emergency procedure and the procedure doesn't predict that before the law was passed, voting on anything but amendments and that after that, it's a perfectly logical practice and what we had was that this conclusion couldn't be voted on because it's a matter of procedural nature. However, after consulting with you, considering that there is no Mr. Tihić and that the practical authentic interpretation here would never have been obtained so this Law would be... a more unfavourable position and obviously this problem, therefore, continues. I'm not going to ask you to plead as the College on authentic interpretation and withdraw this proposal and let's just get it done as planned.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3970	Thank you very much. Can we think of it as a fellow Genjac that you've pulled yours?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3971	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3972	Yeah, okay. Thank you very much. As we said, before the break I read there is no need twice, I launch the voting procedure on the conclusion proposed by my colleague Genjac. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. 13 Present – 6 for, v 5, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 abstentions, RS 5 - all against. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. In accordance with Article 73(3), the College shall subsequently agree on this conclusion and our views. This ended the discussion of the conclusions, i.e. the vote on conclusions, the debate on the law, and after the declaration of the College, we will continue the procedure under this Law. We're going to the next item of the agenda, item five, ad. 5. Envoy Ognjen Tadić's request for an examination of the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from envoy Ognjen Tadić to consider the Amendment Bill and the BiH Election Law Supplements on a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of our House. 35 I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Who's answering for a word? Comrade Tadić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3974	Thank you, Mr. Čović. I'm reporting for the word because, simply and I don't know if this proposal will be accepted... of urgency, if it isn't, then I won't get a chance to explain later what I should explain. And basically, all I'm saying at the same time are the reasons for the adoption of this law and otherwise the reasons for the urgency of this procedure. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, which we have proposed in the House of Representatives, Mr Mladen Bosić, and in the House of Peoples which I have proposed, concerns matter that should normally be regulated, but at this point very urgent that it be regulated. It involves calling and holding elections in early form with a full mandate if early elections are held in the election year. This is the practice of European countries and this is the practice of countries in the region. And what we currently have in BiH, in some very specific cases, such as the election for the President of the United States and the like, there is not a single country in the world, i.e. No country in the world has a pre-arranged election megdan day such as that in the BiH case with the first Sunday of October every fourth year. And otherwise, the lack of an existing electoral legislative solution is that it does not define what regular elections are but only arises and indirectly concludes what the regular elections are, and then, later, through the text of the law, this syntagma is being passed, even though it is not even defined in the concept of the Electoral Law. Instead of such a solution, the SDS offers a very consistent solution that says regular elections are the elections held at all levels of government in BiH during the last 30 days of the current election cycle. The election cycle is actually a mandate and it is determined by the provisions of the Electoral Law in the terms of the wording, and what is also important here to say is that this law amends Article 14(3), and this is a change in attitude 4 which no longer concerns elected members of an authority, but is also a reference to the holders of the mandate, which is also known in the concept of the existing Election Law, and is not an amendment, but is part of the practice so far, and in the following attitude, so the attitude of the 5th that is proposed and the complete novel is said that if elections are held during the election year, they are held in full term and that those chosen have a full 4 years to fix something, to solve something. Certain ambiguities that may concern this Law are already spoken in public and I will briefly respond to them and thus show that this Law is not complicated and that what I say makes sense from the point of view of the justification and urgency of this procedure. The first comment was whether the House of Representatives could shorten its mandate and whether the Presidency could only shorten its mandate? I remind you that in an existing constitutional solution to BiH, this is not prohibited and that each of the members of the presidency or MPs can resign practically shorten their mandate. When they do so collectively, it is a defacto reduction of mandate and a decision of legal character. That is why it is here, as I say, an option implemented that for this kind of decision in the House of Representatives requires the same majority, the same qualified majority needed to change the Constitution. Therefore, any House of Representatives who would be in a situation where it disbands itself and shortens its mandate would make that decision in accordance with the existing Article 4. The BiH Constitution, which says any decision is taken with an entity vote, and then additionally in accordance with Article 10. The constitution that says any decision concerning amendments must include a two-thirds majority in the House of Representatives. So instead of changing the Constitution, instead of every time we approach this issue, we are making a legal solution that 36 makes it possible to make a decision that practically has a category, the character of the decision that it takes to change the Constitution itself. So, the Constitution doesn't change, it doesn't endanger jurisdiction, no one exposes anyone to any political decisions that are necessary or would be necessary for some kind of interrelationship between entities, but simply the House of Representatives itself makes such a decision. When it comes to the election and duration of the presidency members' term of office, it is also regulated by the BiH Constitution, of course, they foresee the possibility of one of the Bureau members resigning, and the current law that speaks of a replacement member of the presidency is only partially resolved. It has been resolved so that if one or two members of the Bureau have for some reason a situation to end their term of office, then the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly elects their alternate member. Since we would have a situation here if all three members of the presidency were to interrupt their mandate, we would not have a problem, such as in the Federation, that if a Croatian member of the Presidency for some reason, such as Mr Čović had previously been, would cease to exercise his mandate, to go to direct elections, and then someone would be elected to the Federation as a single electoral unit, and there would be no chance of being someone who, for example, was elected... Mr Čović's policies rather than being someone else. And by doing so, we avoided getting involved in this election law change story, the story of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac case and everything that is common knowledge. In that sense, the SDS explains the provisions of this Act. Why is it urgent? Well, you see, I don't have to explain why it's urgent. It is urgent because of what is happening to us both in the Federation of BiH and in front of these joint bodies. And it's been going on for two years. And it's nothing new, and it's going to look, apparently, unless something is done. People who protest on the street for some reason can't look at any more faces. Should someone push them into the street and ask for a replacement or let them make their decision in the election? Someone said, those people are a little out there, they're at the level of a statistical error. It's possible, but they have some right to speak their mind. And maybe there's people sitting behind their windows and doors, sticking through the keyhole or under the curtain, watching if these people who are on the street are going to achieve something politically. Well, maybe those people support what's going on today, too. I'm not getting into it, it's not the same government in Tuzla and Sarajevo, it's not the same government in Gorazd and Bihac, it's not the same government in all the locations where these protests took place. But what we know, we know next, key political perpetrators of the government of the Serb people, the Bosniak people, have sent a message that they are not disputed early elections, even the SDP has proposed a law to be found tomorrow at the House of Representatives. We think this law is better. We consider this because it does not fall into the traps of the transfer of jurisdiction as the SDP law enters, there is no story of early elections but is premature, as already regulated. The SDP law would mean that the term of office would take seven years. Because if emergency elections were to be called in the first year of office, four years would have been the term of office and until conditions for new regular elections were obtained, so again in October of some year, those people would have to exercise power or be disbanded again. These are all issues such as the transfer of jurisdiction and everything else that makes me think the SDP law doesn't stand a chance. I ask you to give this law a chance, to adopt it into the House of Peoples by emergency procedure, to go to the House of Representatives, to go tomorrow and to finish everything in these two days. If the sincere desire of political leaders, which are the subject of criticism, is to agree to early elections, then they will support it, and members of their parties wherever they sit and whatever they vote. If all the stories of early elections, or I don't know about wage cuts, sleepwalking for protesters, then we don't have anything to do with it, because we just wanted to create preconditions to allow the people in the elections and not anywhere else to say what they want to say. Who's going to win other things, and that's not the question that solves this law. This law only solves the possibility that when citizens feel that anyone is no longer able, in accordance with their demands, 37 to exercise power, that early elections can be held, if, of course, the people who exercise that authority are ready to resign and thus to resolve the issue. We've heard more than once over the past period why we can't disband the House of Representatives, as he would disband himself, they know they're aware of the crisis, but the Constitution defends. This is what the Constitution won't defend. We also heard about the Law of Salaries, here is Mr. Živković, who proposed a law that sort of solves the issue of wages. These two days are crucial for the conclusion of the public in the Federation of BiH and RS, whether there is any communication that is not a hidden intention between citizens and between the people who represent them. You have a chance to show that communication is good. If you don't want your decision, I can't make you do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3975	Thank you, colleague Tadić. Comrade Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3976	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Since the legislator has decidently given us what this applies and what parts of the Electoral Law are treated by this proposal, and before that precedes the question again about procedure and metrics, I will say a few facts that I think are very important for us to make a decision, and finally I will say what I mean specifically as an individual and a member of the DNS on this law. First of all, I do not want this issue to be turned into a division, to the founders and guardians of the government, who at no cost want to step down from certain positions, and to those who think this is the right time to go to early elections and that there has been such an escalation and crisis in which something has to be done, as Mr Tadić said, to change certain persons who are bored with this people. But again, I'm going to say that we should leave it to the voter's will so we don't know if those same faces are going to choose again, and seeing how it happened in earlier election cycles, how it happens today, I don't even see a lot of new faces in politics, maybe now something that I don't know is going to happen. The second thing I want to say is what the state of electoral legislation is at this point and what we've been doing in the past, or what we haven't done and we've had a chance to do. Constantly since this House was formed, and it was formed on 9 June 2011, that everything was normal took 5.6 months earlier, and from that moment on we have a constant crisis. We also had the election of the Council of Ministers, we had various other decisions, so you all know how we adopted the budgets, and that's the result of what we did, and we often talked about compromise and consensus and the need for many things to be resolved quite differently. Election law, I was a member of an Interresor Working Group that worked on amendments to the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties. We worked a long time, we worked seriously, but this law never saw the light of day, nor did it get the green light to move on. Furthermore, we have a situation that has not been implemented, and at the time the Interresor Working Group worked, there were two decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, one concerning the names of municipalities and cities in RS, and the other concerning the election cycle in the City of Mostar. After that, one part of that decision, or decision on cities and municipalities, is finished, and we also know how we ended up through the electoral process, until this other decision is never over. 38 Also one of the major issues that is the issue, again which applies and which is very large in terms of electoral legislation, is also the issue of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's decision and I won't repeat it, we all know how it was done. The current situation, a new Interresor Working Group working on the Election Law with the same mandate that gave this House the right to complete what needs to be done and to carry out a comprehensive analysis of electoral legislation and to propose decisions to this House in the manner that should be done by the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, we had a proposal from the SDS, so we had a proposal from Mr. Košarac, and we are currently active in the procedure of the SDP's proposal for early elections, and here today we have a proposal from Mr. Tadić, or the SDS about the law that should go into emergency procedure. Now, let's get this straight, I don't have anything personally, and neither does my party, against the election, but I don't think that, here's six months, or we're going to get into the election cycle very quickly of those 150 days, and we're going to end this story. As it is proposed, I agree that there are good solutions that have not been developed so far in the Electoral Law, but I don't think this is the time in such a way to do it, first of all, given what I have previously said about how many procedures are currently in the Electoral Law. And if they were sincere intentions, I will read something that was in force when the two largest RS parties worked together, – parties agree to review the entire election process,... candidate lists, increase the censorship, change the structure and way of appointment of election committees, review other issues before the 2012 local elections are held. We all had a chance to do that. Here, I am part of the government and I am responsible as much as I have been involved in all of this, but I need to talk like this and say what it is and separate the real interests and the real need to go into the election cycle, and we'll all agree on the rule of law, elections are the character of democracy in every democratic state. So I did for this part of the proposal just to go into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3977	Thank you, fellow Rodić. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3978	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, no one in this House is immune to certain social issues that burden BiH in any more difficult way than they are in the countries of the environment. For our countries, environments are not an alibi, we have to resolve our issue in a way that we provide citizens with a better and social position and all the rights that arise from it. Of course, I cannot ignore certain dissatisfactions of citizens who are articulated at these gatherings, of course with the condemnation of the part that led to our hooligans, and even according to the qualifications of the prosecution and terrorists, managed these protests and brought and showed BiH in another picture than it did in reality. Mr Ivanić spoke earlier about the Law on residence that he had entered political waters and had dominated the political dimension of all the debates, whether in the media or in Parliament, etc. This law that is before us today is the best example of a politicisation that really shouldn't be in this House. I will not follow the encroachments of Mr. Ognjen Tadić and Mr. Igor Radojičić, let them handle it on their own, whether there is a transfer of 39 or no transfer of jurisdiction, because I will really not talk about it. I'll talk about something else. I'll speak exactly what Mr. Tadić said about... Please, we have a constitution that provides for a term of four years, and we leave it to someone to cut it short. So please, if you have the courage to propose a change to the Constitution as is resolved everywhere by who is disbanding Parliament, so give power to the Presidency if you wish to be so radical, so advanced, give a wish to the Presidency that it can disband the Parliamentary Assembly. I know it's not your policy, but this is politics. Another question that is raised here – how to solve it. Bringing into a position that someone in the election year or in the pre-election year who's the government admits that it's not working well, so that's bordering on one thing that you'd have to set in a slightly more serious way who might think about it. Imagine now we come and say - we're not doing well here, let's disband. Well, this is people's politics.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3979	We know we're not working, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3980	Well, Mr. Ivanić, I'll tell you something else. This story, unfortunately, was turned into politics by SDS and Mr. Dodik who says – I will give you the election. Well, you can't give the election because elections aren't your property, elections are constitutional category, issues solved when you can go to elections. Please meet these conditions. I'm talking about RS, I'm talking about here. In RS, you have a stable majority in Parliament, you make laws, everything works, you have economic stability, I'm not saying that this is a good situation, and now you suddenly, says Mr. Bosić – I would like elections and I say – here are your choices, I'm a good man. No, the election is a legal category, the election is something that has to be strictly respected by the regulations. You have a chance to go to this election that our system now predicts, here you go. I wouldn't ask for it if I were you, and if I were you, I wouldn't give it to you, because it's a matter of raids. Why, four months ago, three months ago, about your social sensitivity, not your society at all, talk and spend 3.4 million euros on elections, better use them for something else. And I know, Mr. Tadić, that it's more appropriate for you that this law doesn't pass so that you can develop stories about it and now run there to say, here's how we're afraid of choices, how we won't go to elections. The election is the second week of October. Of course, since I'm retired, I'm not going to participate in the elections, so I'm allowed to open up and say that I don't mean I can, but I can send you messages that I'm not going to compete, compete, show up, give me programs, and don't just, every discussion that comes off your shoulders and – it's dangerous to unpack Dejton and it's dangerous that SNSD supports Dragan Čović. If these are arguments that we need to discuss about the election, I'm afraid this is a weak story for you, a very weak story. I know you're going to replicate and I'll do it later, but you realize that this is a children's story, the least said children's story, a children's play. This is positively childlike, the children are naive, innocent, etc., so you may believe this, but you will honor when the law falls upon you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3981	I see you mentioned me, and we'll explain later. Comrade Tadić, here you go. Correction of the wrong quote, right? 40
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3982	Yeah. Yeah, it's the nicest thing to do when a man doesn't grow up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's great, I mean it is, but we have a problem you know, Mr. Simić you say you're going to retire, I don't know if you're going to get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3984	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3985	I'm not worried about you, you know, but you're part of that category of people that no country means anything to. Whatever the state is to you is ridiculous, it's ridiculous to you. Why is she funny to you? Well, thank Bog, thanks to your work, your brains, your skills and your abilities, you're rich, you're happy, you have a good family, you didn't have to run from your city, etc., so your country, nothing has changed. And I respect that, that's great. But here, let there be people who say it's not like that and they're looking for a solution. And now what kind of solution – well, it's not good, these MPs will make a decision, but first let's go through all of this that we've been talking about. So like this, first hooligans, someone mentioned hooligans, etc., went out on the street, etc. Well, I don't know whose team those hooligans were playing on. I'm told by analysts that there wasn't one 50-60,000 people on the streets of Sarajevo along with children, along with all family members, etc., but when the hooligans came out they came home, you know. There's a lot of ways to break up demonstrations. '68 remember, right? _________(?) Yes, very much. I heard something about it, but I remember everything after '68, so don't do that. Now, as far as disbanding the congregation is concerned, it is not true that we do not have in our Statute the disbanding of the congregation. This House can disband itself, what couldn't the House of Representatives disband themselves? The National Assembly can disband the RS itself, so why can't the House of Representatives disband themselves? Now, if anyone's getting in the way of this, that's fine. He won't break up. I can't get anyone to vote for a divorce. I'm just saying that the people have a right, that they have a chance to seek, and if none of the politicians had the right to say so, we would, but there are no legal conditions. Let's make legal arrangements and see if we will. Next, you're saying this about this confession that it's not working well, etc., I don't have anything to add. You were in charge of one demonstration.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3987	Yeah? 41
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3988	Well, SNSD, you, the big banner was through the streets of Banja Luka, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3989	I don't remember.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3990	You don't remember. You don't remember because that's when the banner said "we're hungry".
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3991	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3992	Well, it's been 10 years, so I guess the hunger stopped and the memory stopped. He says – Dodik can't make the election. Let me tell you something, so we haven't, don't humiliate the institutions of the RS president in the joint bodies of BiH. Well, we didn't deal with Mr. Dodik's bar fight, we agreed on a solution to the problem. And not only here in Banja Luka but also in Belgrade, Mr Simić, to prevent the people from doing anything bad by the RS, from leaving the picture of political instability. We have spoken to him in this regard, and he, as president of the Republic, has the opportunity to resign himself or to disband the National Assembly. And if he says he will, then what can you not?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3993	I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3994	Nedt, okay. The party's decision, right, will it be respected as a decision by the party's authority? Furthermore, there is a stable majority in the National Assembly of the RS. I appreciate it, and I respect it. And whether the stable majority in any representative body, I will quickly end up with Mr. Čović, means that the economic and social political situation is stable. I can give you a million examples from the Balkans where the situation is completely reversed, where there is a stable majority and completely unstable political opportunities. The SDS is not responding to this Law right now, because we need more time, as should anyone who wants to promote positive programmes, to say in public everything we have to say, but we are willing to give up and get fewer votes, but to have some decisions in the RS that would avoid any situation that would put us in the same basket. Because, Mr Simić, when the BiH reports on these things were no one said there were riots in the Federation not in RS, all said unrest in BiH. Well, that investor says I don't want to go to BiH, he doesn't want to go to RS and I don't want to go to the Federation. That's why we're sending this positive message.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3995	Thank you, colleague Tadić. Here you go, pal Simić, your three minutes, or two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3996	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 42 Mr. Tadić You and I understand each other very well. The president of the RS is someone who defends the Constitution, someone who defends the rule of law, someone who enforces the laws. And in various political ways, let me say, your games you provoke exactly that – someone is afraid of choices. He's not afraid of any choice, and he shouldn't be afraid of choices. And all of this to be done, what Mr. Genjac said, there are sublegal acts here, you need to change the rules of procedure, you need to change the mass of things to get to the election. Therefore, I believe that I cannot say on your call – I want elections, here are the choices. The constitution says when... elections. In the RS, there are no conditions of emergency in BiH too. On the contrary, you have an unemployment rate equal to Serbia, Croatia, not to say Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3997	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3998	In Serbia, you have exactly what you want to offer the people, a demagogue that will end as well as Miloševićev, to tell you right away. And yes, I end up, you have pension payments that run regularly. Of course they're under every criticism.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u3999	It is in Serbia.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4000	Here, and in Serbia, I agree, but understand this is not, this is not an emergency and do not draw on BiH's emergency shirt. It's not an emergency, it's not an emergency. With all due respect - the difficult position of people, a depression that catches people even who are economically secure, all this stands, but do not put yourself in a position to open topics that are just bringing destabilisation of BiH. That's the aspect I was talking about. Here, if you accept before this short elections, as they go, then come out and throw out 4m euros, and spend it in the RS, and you get your confirmation these eight, nine months, but that's, I repeat, a zolconic -- a hollow story that has no basis, no need, no logic, no reason. It is a fundamental issue, and for the day-to-day policy which is, BiH has become the hostage of day-to-day politics on each issue, on every issue. Please, give me an indication, and your authority, and our authority, and all the authorities that were, which we launched. Here, I'll talk about the salaries, I'll be against the pay cut, not because I don't think they should be reduced and reconsidered, but there are a small million obligations to be arranged. Let's talk about how to use a car, let's talk about past work hours, open reforms, don't paroles that are one-time uses to open a story. Let's reform, reform. And here no reform is launched, it's being extorted because, as Mr. Raguž can often say, there's no state's acceleration here, all day policy is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4001	Thank you. A fellow Genjac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4002	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Tadić submitted a bill two days ago requiring an emergency procedure to be considered. We had a college this morning and immediately set out today on the agenda a request for review of the Law by emergency procedure. counterpart Tadić explained enough reasons to consider the emergency procedure, of course from his point of view. It seems to me that the debate takes a little bit of the character of the debate on the content of the law. Staying in principle with regard to the Rules of Procedure whether the law is urgent to be, uh, whether it's this degree of urgency, I think it's so urgent that it's already too late. That's one thing. And if it's simple enough to be an ambulance, I don't think it's simple at all. He was too late because if such interventions were to be adopted in the accompanying statutes, Rules of Procedures, etc., I don't think it could end before the regular elections. That's one thing. So, I am, I support this law in the sense that it goes into regular procedure. I don't think an emergency procedure here is possible from a series of reasons, and I think the motionor's intention will be implemented in the best way in the regular procedure. I think we'll have three situations -- and first reading, and second reading, and enough to say about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4003	Thank you, Genjac. So we're discussing procedure, so here we stick to the... that we can. Replica, or correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4004	Yeah. Mr. Genjac, in terms of justification for urgency, you're right. You're right. This law should have been here a long time ago. Eh, but the reasons why you think he's urgent, and if he was urgently adopted, it wouldn't lead to a faster election, so I have to tell you they're not true. Here's why. It says – from..., you can therefore follow Article 4 of the amendment and the addition of this Act, which says – especially from the Law 4 of this Law to the holders of mandates elected in the provisional elections held during the election year, the term of office would be as long as it would have lasted if they had been elected in the regular elections. Accordingly... all the rules, all the sublegal acts related to the work of the Electoral Commission. That's why this law is better than the SDP. We were thinking about what you were talking about, and it's very good that you saw it as a potential problem. Just because we thought about it, we applied this provision like this, and therefore all the applicable sublegal acts already exist, they already exist. On the other hand, neither the House of Representatives nor the BiH Presidency must change its rules of procedure in order for this to be applied. Let them make direct application of the law, as they would direct application of the Constitution in some cases now carry out direct application of the law, having... that this is material and legal nature and not procedural nature of the provision. So this is what I'm telling you as a lawyer, now fully aware of all possible implications and questions to which someone who isn't a lawyer might produce. So, as far as this is concerned, Mr Simić, about the urgency again and the reforms, etc., I don't know if you meant... another. There were offers to the people – fighting crime and corruption, revising privatisation. The SDS team is the one who proposed the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets, and before that it was the SDS team that proposed the Deprivement Act. It was an offer that the people had an unlimited right to declare themselves on a referendum and on other matters. The SDS team approved the Law on Referendum and Civil Initiative in RS. So, even when others promise, if we agree to that, we have no problem planting our backs and doing something. I can tell you later in the hallway, Mr Simić, how good this particular law is for the RS, for many questions in the RS that would be resolved in this way. But I'm sorry that there was no mood before this debate and the need for me to explain it to all those who might have suspected it because I didn't know as a proprietor, so it's not about what they say or say, and I found out here in the course of this procedure that it's going to be a regular procedure. You can go to a regular procedure and then this law will matter, but you know for when? 44 For the period after October 2014. Okay, that SDS is not a problem, we'll just have more time to even more quality people, even more quality programs get public attention. And thank you for thinking of the interest of the SDS, if you were referring to the interest of the citizens of the RS, then I must tell you that you have made a mistake. Because Mr. Genjac is easy to talk about right now, you know why. Well, the antibody in the Federation, the antibody, whatever's going on now, past, seen and endured, will somehow get rid of it. We're taking care of RS here, Mr. Simić. This law is good for the RS first.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4005	Thank you, colleague Tadić. kolega Simić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4006	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. When it comes to whom this Law is good or not good, of course it should be good for the citizens of BiH, because this is the state law, on the one hand, and if the law is good, quality, if the law has resolved the system issue it is good for the RS as well. That we don't open the story – this is good for the RS, this is bad for the Federation,... If we're passing the law he must have standards of quality law, secure the rule of law, and I claim that here with this proposal you have seriously entered constitutional changes, you have entered constitutional changes. I'm not talking about the transfer of jurisdiction, I'm not interested in handling it with Mr. Radojičić, but you're simply talking here and you're talking about shortening the mandate prescribed by the Constitution. You have entered many questions, you ask the question to resign all three, and then again they choose, we may have a legal void. And that's why I'm saying that this law is a conglomerate that's not ideological, from the point of view of constitutional matter, legal matter, well-placed. It's my question, it's, and the citizens will protest, won't, it's theirs eventually right. They don't have to crash, they should have heard them. So do you think anyone today is unaware of the state and position of the people in BiH. Yes, it is, but the essential question is that this is a one-time law. And that's what we need to discuss when we get in a position to... in a regular procedure. But I repeat again, you will never get my support when the term of office in the Constitution says it's four years old. What is the right of the law to say the mandate is, now that I am Igor Radojičić, perhaps I could calculate and say – here is the change of the Constitution by law. But I won't open that story... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4007	Thank you, fellow Simić. kolega. Ivanić, the debate, but we stick to the procedure, we'll have a debate later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4008	I will support this request as far as I'm concerned, and I thought it was a logical consequence of everything I've heard in the last month from various politicians. And I've heard from most politicians in the Federation that for the extraordinary elections it's the way to solve the crisis. I don't know, I can't remember any who said – no, we need to stay in power until the end. That, as I recall, was also a key way for the protests to die a little, and I know very well that President Dodik in Banja Luka said – we will support the law if the SDS proposes it. And now I'm completely baffled, with expectations, and I've always yelled there won't be any choice because it's all one of the most common things, as I'd say, the gamery, of the Federation that dies people, from the RS of Dodik to transfer the Kobajaga to the SDS. Don't get caught, so 45 I'll stay like that, that I wanted to, but you didn't want to, and when you do, then my... members will find themselves who won't vote and support it. So, I'll vote for it, but from this I don't think it'll be anything. And let us not go further. Let the people know that those who promised them elections will not. And in the RS, we will, as an opposition, make sure that this message gets to the public...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4009	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. As far as I can tell, at least we've exhausted the debate, no one's answering for a word, no one's interested. And I'm closing the debate, so it's procedure. We are initiating the voting procedure on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the draft law by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Attendance, 12 – for 2, versus 7, abstention 3. The general majority is gone, so we won't argue any further. So, I am finding a request to consider the bill's amendment to the amendments and additions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law by a hasty procedure has not been adopted. I am now asking you to initiate, given that the request for consideration of the draft law to amend and supplement the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been adopted by a hasty procedure, we should first declare ourselves on the application for a review of the Law under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121 of our Rules of Procedure. Please initiate the voting procedure, so we are voting on whether the draft law will be considered in a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121 of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 12 Attendance - 4 versus 7, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 2 for, 4 against, 1 abstention, RS – 2 for, 3 against. There's no general majority. I agree with the request for a review of the bill's proposal for amendments and additions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law under the shortened procedure has not been adopted. Since the proposal that we had under the haste procedure and the shortened procedure has not been adopted this request will be adopted, i.e. the proposal for a law will be considered in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. That concludes the point of today's 5th agenda. Point six of today's agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the 33rd session, held on 16th 12th of last year, the people's home decided to postpone the examination of the proposal for a law amending the Code on the Protection of Secret Information for the next session of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Do we have any interested in the debate? I don't see any reports, I don't see any interest in the debate. We're closing the debate. 46 We vote on the bill in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Attendance 10 – for 7, versus 3. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 3 against, RS – 4 for, against, no one. We don't have the entity majority, the general majority exists. As such, the proposal for a law is subject to compliance with the College, in accordance with Article 73(3). That concludes point 6. We're going to point seven of today's agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4012	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4013	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering, I don't see any interest in applying for a hearing. We're closing the debate under this law. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Nations...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4015	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4016	Now I'm staying...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4017	47 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4018	Since we have both a general and an entity majority, and I missed the vote, here's no need to restart the procedure so we don't waste time, I'll comment on what we have. Attendance 11 - for 9, v. 1, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 abstention, RS – 3 for, 1 against. We have a general and entity majority. I find the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the House of the Peoples has been adopted. Given that Article 101(2) of our Rules of Procedure defines that in case we adopt the Opinion of the Committee, we have come to the situation of rejecting the bill. We're going to the eight today's agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission did not accept the principles of the Bill's proposal on the grounds that the above proposal has many shortcomings which cannot be corrected by the submission of amendments in the second reading. The commission also adopted the following conclusion: – The House of Peoples is in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to approach the development of a more high-quality bill and deliver it to parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. My colleague Simić, on behalf of the Commission, do you have a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4020	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4021	Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. Is there any need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No Niko, I don't see any interest. We're closing the debate. 48 We vote on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attendance 12 – for 6, versus 3, abstention 3. Federation of BiH – 2 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions, RS – 4 for, 1 abstention. We have a general but we don't have an entity majority. And yet, in accordance with Article 73 of our Rules of Procedure, point 3 of this proposal, we send for consent. We're going to the point of today's nine agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4024	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4025	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Not reported, I don't see any interest in the application. We conclude the debate on this bill in the first reading. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 11 - 11 for. Federation of BiH – 7, all for, RS – 4, all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements has been adopted. We're going to point 10, 49 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement (First Reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4029	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4030	Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. I'm opening a debate under this law. I don't have any reports. I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please initiate procedure. Thank you. Attending 12 — for 12. RS – 4, all for, Federation of BiH – 8, all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree that the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code was adopted in the first reading. Moving to the 12th point of today's agenda, Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Border Control (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4033	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4034	Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any sign-ins or interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attendance 12 - for 11, v. 1. Federation of BiH – 8, all for, RS – 3 for, 1 against. We have a general and entity majority. The draft law amending and supplementing the Border Control Act was adopted in the first reading. Moving to the 13th point of today's agenda, 51 Ad. 13. Confirmation of BiH Presidency Decision on the appointment of Commander of the 4th Infantry Brigade of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4037	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4038	Thank you very much. Opening debate on this proposal (?). I don't have a comment and a request for a hearing, and I don't, I don't see any interest in reporting. We are concluding a debate on this proposal (?). We are voting on confirming the decision to put on the post of commander of the 4th Infantry Army of BiH Armed Forces. Please initiate procedure. Thank you. Attendance 12 - for 11, versus none, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 8, all for, RS – 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general and entity majority. I agree that we have confirmed the Presidency's decision to appoint Brigadier Kolende Kolenda as commander of the 4th Infantry Army of the Armed Forces of BiH. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 21 January of this year, in accordance with Article 17. The law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions has established a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, and has provided homes with consideration and adoption. You have received a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. At the 63rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 25.02 this year, he adopted the Decision appointing members of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest and appointed representatives from the House of Representatives: Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, Lazar Prodanović and Zvonko Jurišić. The proposal of the Joint College of 52 homes was also confirmed that representatives were appointed to the Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly: Staša Košarac, Borjana Krišto and Halid Genjac. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the debate. We're closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the decision-making committee...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4040	Ognjen Tadić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4041	Excuse me, ognjena. Here's a colleague of Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4042	I apologize that if I reacted quickly,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4043	It doesn't matter just you guys.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4044	I'm sorry, sir... anyway. So, the key observation here that is tied up is not about anyone's personality, so neither is Mr. Košarac's personality or any other delegate or MP. All of us elected delegates and MPs have that kind and capacity and obligation to talk about these things and, of course, we engage in them according to the law, and here the law says that MPs and delegates are present through this story in the work of this Commission. But what bothers us at this point, as representatives of the opposition, is the structure of the Commission. By names, we see that they are, in the vast majority of the government. You had a situation in the Council of the Republic of Croatia when Sanader was Prime Minister, and we already know what he had, and now we see everything he had, as they say, as a problem in his head and what he had to think about, but also in such a situation, even though he was aware of the weight of the decision, he accepted that one Josip Leko was the chairman of this commission, there it is called, is it Mr Čović, the commission, which the chairman of the General Committee was the Social Democratic Party at that time. So, without any parallels, if a Sanader, who knew what he was afraid of, had the democratic capacity to solve this issue in such a way and not make a living wall of a commission dealing with conflict of interest, but to create a commission that is of taste, smell and will of the citizens of Croatia. Then we believe that this Parliament too had to have more sensitivity to these issues and that the opposition here has a majority. Since we are gone we cannot be, because this is no longer a matter of name, Mr Košarac is a great man for me for any function concerning the Parliamentary Assembly, but this is a matter of policy relations, we cannot support a policy that makes it impossible for the system to function when it comes to these matters. I, as an opposition delegate, can hardly be in conflict of interest, so it is more logical that someone from the impeachment says what a conflict of interest is than one who may be in conflict of interest by definition. So, of course, I can theoretically and each and every one of us, but hardly enough, we should just come up with some circumstances, is it, etc. That's why I'm saying this has nothing to do with it, and I think Mr. Košarac, I'm saying first of all for these reasons, should understand it that way, this has nothing to do with his personality, uh, voting against this decision, but it has to do with the relationship to this suspended policy, suspends 53 opposition from having at least where this issue of democratic values is control over power. Well, that's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4045	Thank you, colleague Tadić. There are no more applicants for the debate, no more comments, thank you very much, we are closing the debate. And here, if necessary, one note from the Joint College in its two, or three meetings, thoroughly discussed the role of the opposition in this and eventually respected all the obligations that were ahead of us. I suggest we go to the vote on a motion for a decision to appoint members of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 12 - for 9, versus 2, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 6 for and 1 abstention, RS 3 for, 2 against. We have a general and entity majority. I agree that we have reached a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest, and members of the pvojerenstvo from the House of Nations have appointed: Staš Košarac, Borjana Krišto and Halid Genjac. We're moving on to item 15 of today's agenda, Ad. 15. Appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structures (proposed ranking list of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and the Committee for Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of BiH police structures) The interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as well as the independent bodies of the BiH Police Structures at the 9th session, held on 21 January this year, established and presented the House with a proposal for a ranking of candidates for the appointment of members of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens. The House of Representatives adopted the ranking of candidates for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as an independent body of the police structure, which established the interim joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. I'm opening a debate on the proposal. I don't see any reports. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a candidate ranking for the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH's police structure: 1. Žiko Krunić, president, 2. Enes Obralija is the first deputy, 54 3. Mato Jozić, second deputy, 4. Ilma Jusufbašić-Mehić-Mehic, member, 5. Adisa Begić, member, 6. Nikola Džambas, member, 7. Mate I’m a Miletić, ” 5 / 8 Ljubomir Kuravica, member, 9. Miroslav Škorić, member. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. 9 present – for 10, versus 2. Federation of BiH 5 for, 2 against, RS 5 for. We have a general and entity majority. I find that the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the appointment procedure for members of the Independent Committee has been adopted, that we have appointed: Žika Krunić as president, Enes Obralije as first deputy president, Mat Jozić as second deputy president, and members of Irma Jusufbašić-Mehić-Mehic, Adisa Begić, Nikola Džambas, Mat Miletić, Ljubomir Kuravica and Miroslav Škorić. We are now voting on the proposal for a candidate ranking for members of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens: 1. Vjekoslav Vuković, president; 2. Bakir Dautbašić, first deputy president; 3. Borislav Radić, second deputy president; 4. Semir šut, member; 5. Tihomir Marinčić, member; 6. Njegosava Stjepanović, member; 7. Aleksandra Martinović, member. Please initiate voting procedure. 12 Attending - 11 for, 1 against, no one abstained. Federation of BiH 6 for, versus 1, RS 5 for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree that the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of candidates of the Citizens' Board of Appeal, and that we have appointed: Vjekoslav Vuković as president, Bakir Dautbašić as first deputy president, Borislav Radić as second vice president, and for members of Semir Šut, Tihomir Marinčić, Njegosava Stjepanović and Aleksandra Martinović. We're moving on to the point of today's 16th agenda, Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Committee on the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to draw up the Proposal for amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4050	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-12-0.u4051	Thank you very much. 56 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any interest in the debate, no reports. We're closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements, contracts, Protocols and Memoranda referred to in points 17 to 32, including point 32. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 — for 13. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, contracts, Protocols and Memoranda referred to in points 17 to 32, including point 32. Dear colleagues of the heart, thank you. I'm finishing the 36th session of our House. Session completed at 3:15 p.m.
