ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19866	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, please take your seats. I am opening the 63rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by MPs Lazar Prodanović, Asim Sarajlić and Azra Hadžiahmetović. According to the information service, 34 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. Add to the session agenda: Point 9. A report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Point 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty relating to the Loan Treaty for the Central Heating Project Pala, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The agenda has been downloaded: point 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković. The bill was withdrawn from the procedure. The following are added: point 3. Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Cake Victims – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, which is negative for the second time. Point 5. Proposal for a law on preventing money laundering and financing of terrorist activities – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, which is negative. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, we need to resolve a previous issue. It is related to the proposal for a resolution on the verification of the origin of the property – proposed by MP Denis Bećirović. 2 Namely, in accordance with Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure should be made clear whether this motion for a resolution will be referred to the committee responsible. So I put the motion to refer the resolution to the committee responsible. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, it wasn't, abstention 1. I konstatuj that the House has decided to refer this motion for a resolution to the committee responsible, it is the Constitutional Commission. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19867	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you all. A consistent debate at the extended College, where we have failed to agree unfortunately, I propose a new item of the agenda, and if it is likely to be under regular number 3 and this is the Information of the BiH Minister of Justice on the current legal status of RS General Novak Đukić. Here's the material with this proposal, which we're going to deliver. I'll just remind you it's January 23rd, 2014. The BiH Constitutional Court adopted Mr Đukić's appeal and found a breach of the court's decision in Strasbourg. And to all those who know it, and to cut short, at this point, a man, perhaps the only one in Europe, sits in prison without any decision by any authority, anything, anyone says anything, anyone says anything. We believe that this is unacceptable, unacceptable and embarrassing for this country, and that we could be the subject of debate in international institutions soon enough. We expected, we had patience, that it would sort of be settled before this session. Unfortunately, this place deserves to be found in the agenda and this point deserves to be found. And here's a proposal to share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19868	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19869	Here, we support this initiative to include a new agenda point, with a view to proposing, although we did not discuss it with the SNSD Club, but would suggest that this point be extended and information on the status of the Croatian arrest warrant for General Manojle Milovanović. Namely, I have information that it has practically been a month since the warrant, that no one has been informed of it and that the deadline for BiH's statement on the matter is something similar to that of Naser Orić. The warrant when it was called in Serbia was immediately released to the public here in Sarajevo, and we would like to have information about it. 3 So here, my suggestion is, or to be a special point, I think because it's a similar theme that can be within this proposed point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19870	Thank you. I'm giving a 10 minute break to split the material in writing to the MPs and make an agreement between the two club presidents on forming one item of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, I hope you have succeeded in obtaining material that is in the meantime... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19874	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, with the explanation and acceptance of this joint proposal I think the material is divided into benches to pray from it to see that in this situation this proposal is realistic. Here is the minister of justice, for us it is acceptable every form of information, and written and oral, that it be found on the agenda precisely because of the need, because of the gravity of the question. What is unacceptable to us and very difficult to do in these conditions if we do not get any information and that the existing situation on the ground is maintained as it is. We have had several discussions on this issue on several occasions, not directly on this issue, but on this we have referred various appeals, requests, questions, however you will, to warn that things are not going well, and that we would come to this drastic situation in which BiH authorities who do not even want to communicate, who defend themselves by silence, and this Parliament is being told that it is the only parliament in Europe in whose country people are sitting in prisons. It can't be called prison, if a man doesn't have a document it's not a prison, it's not a detention, it's not a deprivation of freedom, it's, I don't know what it would be called and how it would be treated. So I think it would be fair if we asked all the clubs to accept this as a part of the agenda. I said we're satisfied with any form of information that contains four real information, so we know what it's about and what it's about. I reiterate and warn that it is totally unacceptable to keep this silence or rather this is before the blockades of institutions than it could be called any work, and he does not like the judiciary, the prosecution and the state institutions. We warned on several occasions that it could lead to such a drastic situation, and unfortunately, that's what happened. And of course it's unacceptable to be immune to this and of course it's unacceptable to work under these conditions and that I think we should...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19875	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19876	I end up thinking that if it's not possible at this point, we should stop working until we have everything we need to do so that we can continue to work fully in information.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19877	Thank you. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19878	Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19879	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. I went out to say that we could solve this very simple question and that there would be no need to complicate it, as far as I've heard that the session is being asked and delayed, if we could get assurance from the minister to say now, or how much time it takes, or on parliamentary matters verbally informing this House of simple questions. As far as I understand the SNSD Club, this is where the SDS Club joined, asking for only one sentence – whether there is a paper on which the man is in prison or not. We don't need anything else. After that, as clubs, we'll decide which measures are further. Are we gonna keep working in this country and pretend like nothing's going on? That one House schedules another session and this Parliament cannot make decisions, and it is known that decisions are made and that they are valid when both Houses adopt decisions. That we were still on the agenda today to have a point regarding the formation of a committee on conflict of interest and that we failed to agree, nor to put that item on the agenda because there is no House of People in the sense that it works and performs its tasks, by the Constitution and by the Rule of Obligation. To pretend that there is no fact that a man is in prison without any legal act and that this state treats its citizens in a way – sits in prison, ask nothing. If the minister can come out and say that those acts, or that sentence can say here, it would be enough for us to keep working and finish the work we're here for today, whether or not the House will work. And if we're going to think about our plan and program whether it makes any sense to hold the next session in the fact that you have a classic blockade. The classic blockade of the House of Peoples that stemmed from the political one party's stance not to attend... We are not going to go in as there has been a blockade in the entire Federation with the decisions of the High Representative and that I am pulling 5 out of this further political analysis whether it is the continued action of the High Representative and the political parties for the blockade of this country where, if this House does so, it would certainly cause much bigger earthquakes. You can block it here, you can keep people innocent in prison or people who don't have paper to be in jail. I don't want to get into whether someone's innocent or not, it's going to be determined by processes, but we have the right to, as a Parliament, that's our jurisdiction, we ask - is this a violation of human rights. And of course, why not mention, if this Parliament could send its Human Rights Commission to Serbia to ask what is wrong with the BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić, I ask why this Parliament cannot, on this same basis, task its Commission to go to Banja Luka and ask what is wrong with General Novak Đukić. On which basis, it is not our jurisdiction in this case and it was jurisdiction in the case of Ilija Jurišić. Please step outside and tell me if you have that sentence prepared. If you don't have a chance to prepare it today or if you need to prepare it on Monday, we'll wait until Monday, to know if you can sit in this country without any decision or paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19880	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19881	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, Mr. Chairman, you've just said everything and explained it, and I'm just going to say why I'm about to include this item on the agenda. But, fully aware, and I haven't been in Parliament since yesterday, this is what I thought I told me in 2007, and I'm going to look for stenograms, and today we're going to understand each other that way. If we speak openly then we will realize that we will never, I repeat to you, not that I am against BiH, not that I want it to fall apart, but never this country will go as it should or as we receive other instructions. Because why? I fully understand, I fully understand that Bosniak representatives and politicians will never accept what we stand for today, at least to include this agenda item. Because always, and I understand it as a man who's been through such accidents, that Bosniak politicians, and I have nothing against it, I don't blame them, always looking for someone Novak Đukić. I apologize for mentioning this because this is a proposal for a agenda point so I mention him in that context, so he's a general, but he can be called by another name and last name, he's a Srbin. I really like you as friends and colleagues from other peoples, from parties, I repeat, and that is the key to our being, our survival, our misunderstandings, our inclusions, non-involvement, reflections, misunderstandings, misunderstandings, disrespects, disrespects, whatever you want, I understand you as a man, he will be guilty to you, someone else with a Serbian name and last name just because it's a Serbian nationality. If I didn't have only a unilateral opinion of us Srbin now, always some Naser Orić would be guilty, we will always consider him the most responsible for this and that. And if I were to suggest to you as a man, not that I've been through all this, it's an unfortunate fate and I don't want her to be to anyone in this world, but at least respect the fact and respect the Constitutional Court of this country for which you stand. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19882	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19883	I'm sorry. Here's another sentence - respect the decision and appeal of the Constitutional Court that a man is lying there because it was applied wrongly and retroactively by some legal regulations, which I said then, we'll find the stenograms, don't... begins... Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19884	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19885	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to check first to see if there's a Parliamentary Assembly at all. The Parliamentary Assembly is made up of two homes. One home has already delayed its session for the second time. The House of Representatives shall have no decision to make if it is not confirmed in the House of Peoples it has no legal value. So, what's the state of the country? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute, will you, who runs the session, in the end please, so we've had enough of it while you've been harassing us while you're preside over, will you let us talk now when you're not chairing? So to begin any such complex item of the agenda without knowing whether there is a Parliamentary Assembly at all. I don't think it makes sense either this session or this debate, because if this debate made sense here, everyone from the Council of Ministers would sit, and chairing the Council of Ministers, because the state of the country and what has been trying to do lately is so alarming that it requires the engagement and presence of everyone. I ask that this plan be defined first, before we do anything further, before we adopt this agenda, to determine at all whether the Parliamentary Assembly exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19887	Thank you. Business intervention, the second deputy chairman, counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19888	I urge the Secretary of the House of Representatives to read Article 65(2) very clearly. Rules of Procedure and Rule 71. Rules of Procedure. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19889	Thank you. The secretary won't leave until I tell him. There is a way to conduct a session, I have accepted the way in which each MP in the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure has the right to say what he says. It's a small Parliament, it's small, let me say, and a number of minutes... to say. Anyone who wishes to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure or otherwise conducts the session should choose someone else. Business, colleague Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19890	I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the establishment of the agenda and the debate on the agenda and add only one sentence – if it is intended today to block the work and the House of Representatives and to terminate this session, please do so immediately so that we do not waste time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19891	Of course, referring to the Rules of Procedure and you violated the Rules of Procedure but well. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19892	I thank the chairman. There's a lot of examples when someone's doing something they think everybody and others are doing it, and since someone's in a movie blocking and breaking up, then they think they're all in that movie. Not all of them. Ten minutes of discussion is not an interruption. I remember here MPs who are now in the College who held this session hostage for six hours, we never called it a blockade, using various mechanisms for six hours, and there were no blockades. Fifteen minutes we're discussing here. Very incorrectly, Mr. Bećirović, that you are immediately looking for and warning someone of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think that works. You had a chance to get out nice, here's how you got out now, and say what no one could argue with you. I know it's nervous, that tuzlanski palium that worked last night, but don't deal with it any way now, that fly and the rest of what's going on. You discuss it down there, and you solve it, it's not right to pass that anxiety on to us, because a colleague asked that someone blocked the House of Peoples and that you know this matter well and that this House doesn't make sense without another home, and that it's normal. And you're not asking if it's okay and what's going on, and what we're going to do and how we're going to go on, but you're calling it a blockade. Thesis replacement unknown. You have people sitting in Bashcharshi and drinking coffee and carrying paper that are sick and blocking the state. So if you'll excuse me, coffee or whatever you call coffee, it doesn't matter. I don't think it's correct. And we were looking for the agenda point. And what's the problem? Yesterday we could have agreed on an extended college. Did we ask you yesterday – just put the agenda point and two sentences in the session and the story is over. Is it possible that this could not be declared a parliamentary terror? You can't even get it, you can't ask for a man who sits as a slave in something that, I don't know what to call, slavery. If it's slavery you will, is it necessary to return to some time 500 years ago? Well, he won't be able to. We all use allowed parliamentary methods in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. Say, come out you who are in the Council of Europe, who are in the delegations, and say, that, come, you can organize tourist routes from Europe, we have a man to show you, because it is nowhere, it is an attraction today. To say that, here we are, we have this example, these are all now, you know that people love what is no longer seen, they go to see it. And then you call it when people warn you and say that it's also a consequence of the nerada, the nerado of institutions. I don't think it's right. 8 Thank you. And please, Chairman, I think you should consider how to resolve this and where it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19893	I'll Pustiću the MPs first propose how to resolve it, and then I'll eventually suggest it. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19894	Well, I'd like to use this call first to appeal to get back to the agenda debate. There is a proposal to supplement the agenda and we can discuss this without any excessive spread of the story that has been set too wide in this country and in this Parliament. So, as far as this request is concerned, it's a problem or a problem which, as I managed to figure out yesterday from the debate at the extended College, from what is said and presented here in written form, it's a problem that has a particular character of urgency, purely in principle, not entering a content that is less unknown to me anyway. I don't think it should be questionable for anyone to put a point this formulated, so information, if, and I think there's a need for us to be informed because we're not informed enough. So, as far as we're concerned with HDZ, we think it's perfectly acceptable to include one of these points in the agenda. We also want to be more principled and to say that we are not controversial or complementary to this point. Why don't we be informed about this case, this warrant for General Manojle Milovanović. I'd like to appeal to everyone else that in cases that run more or less try to set up as principled as possible because that's the only thing that's gonna get us some normal trails and get us out of these blocks that are in sight or already present. And let me just say, as far as these demands are concerned, that Minister Collak provides this information, I think, of course, that if that point is defined that Minister Čolak is absolutely ready to provide that information, but I don't think it's right to ask Minister Čolak to come out and say things that are of such nature that have to be told officially, officially, etc. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19895	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19896	Here, very briefly. So this situation is also very welcome to me as an opposition MP as another argument of the inability of the parliamentary majority to function. But here, I don't want to talk about it. So, I think the clue to what Mr. Živković, a colleague of Živković spoke about, when he said they needed an answer yes, the applicants of the initiative needed a simple answer whether he had the paper and what kind of paper Đukić was in prison. And this second question about the BOLO, I think I can answer that through parliamentary matters, and that's no problem at all. I'm more prone to that variant than this other variant to make a point of the agenda. I agree with Mr Franjičević, it is not a problem to get information, etc., but since I know we will discuss this point of the agenda completely in the other direction and 9 we will not... what is the goal then, what is at the end of this debate possible here in Parliament. So, I'm going back to that -- if the goal is to get concrete, accurate, true answers to these two questions, I suggest you do it through parliamentary questions. You will get answers and we will see how further, and to work, Parliament is alive, obviously very lively, so it exists.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19897	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to explain why I did not put this item on the agenda today into the session of this Parliament. Fate power has questioned us why we do not carry out our part of the work, as is known, so parliamentarians elected. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19899	I hope you take this as a well-intentioned throw, I mean it wasn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19900	It's all right, it's all right, I accept... Likewise, as a legislative authority, we have the right and insight to ask how the judicial authority does so. But for that I think we have other tools not to have a broad debate here, because I'm afraid we will not achieve that goal, as Beriz Belkić said and Mato, I think we should have a goal and information. I agree that we should have this information if a man is in prison for no reason at all, so we all need to ask ourselves why that is. But we have an instrument, we have a Human Rights Committee, we can borrow it. If it were an initiative, the Human Rights Committee is in charge of delivering it to us and seeing what it is, I would accept it. But I'm not up for this because I'm afraid there's gonna be an empty debate, and we're gonna lose two, three hours and we're not gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19901	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19902	Here, and I don't have a chance anymore, but there's no need, and I'm obliged to say this to Mr. Belkić, first of all this House is working, you don't think this is work. Two, all the opportunities so far, are exhausted, through parliamentary issues, through various others, one that if you look at the records, through requests from the RS, the National Assembly in any way, means everything is exhausted. And the consequences, don't forget that this is about disrespecting decisions of the Constitutional Court that are threatened by the arrest of parliamentarians, whose disrespect is threatened with the arrest of parliamentarians, and the consequences here are much more difficult, disrespecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court and people like slaves in the state. That's unacceptable. And if you think that by keeping quiet to Parliament's 10 that will be 79 days or in our custom 174 days, you'll get rid of the situation where your slave is sitting in that institution, as we would call it, and that decisions of the Constitutional Court when a people don't like the dots don't apply, that a nation is blocking, at this point almost two-thirds of the state. If a nation had blocked a home, representatives of that people, and it's okay now, it's normal, let's go like nothing's going on we're going to work. You just have to write to me how, which decisions will go from this home. We're working, too, but the point of this work is being set up. And if you think that a single parliamentary question amongst the several thousand will resolve the unlawful detention and non-compliance of the Constitutional Court decisions, if the Constitutional Court decisions don't deserve to be found at least one of the sessions and one of the last points, then I don't think it's okay. Well, this isn't an ecological question, this isn't a question when the train leaves the Podlug, so the MP is dissatisfied with the captain, this is a much harder question, and I think it's worth it at the House of Representatives session. And I repeat, and I end up, all other possibilities are exhausted and surely this is not the first time that this question is asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19903	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19904	Well, I'd like to give Mr. Belkić and Mr. Lijanović a line on their thesis that it's enough to ask a parliamentary question. So this is really about two emergencies, this is about cases that dictate the political climate in BiH that sinks into an ever deeper crisis, and you all know that's the case. Putting these problems under the rug at the moment I believe that someone is responding, responding to the developments in these cases of conflict in BiH, responding to someone and to hide social unrest, poverty and deep problems within BiH. It matches those who would point fingers at these cases so that they wouldn't have to answer those questions of workers from Tuzla and anywhere else, from Banja Luka or anywhere else. So I urge you to open this topic to see what happened here, to try to remove it, because if we block both this Parliament and this institution, do you think you'll get approval from the people. On the contrary, those who protest and who are about to protest will only then think of all of us, perhaps what they should think. Therefore, this is not a naive moment, especially given that the House of Nations is in a difficult situation. I appeal to you, here in both cases, every day in the prison of a man who has no right to be held in prison is a practical kidnapping. I am telling you that today is the last day for BiH to react to General Manojle Milovanović's Interpol warrant. According to media explanations, the case of reaction to the Interpol warrant has been transferred to the BiH presidency level. If that's the case, then please let's open that story, define where we are in general. Is there really double standards here, whether justice here applies to everything equally, and unfortunately we're all aware that justice here doesn't apply to everything equally. That is why I believe that rejecting the debate, not the conclusions, not the acts that will arise later, but the discussions on these problems would actually be a big mistake for the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19905	Thank you. Replica, a respected colleague, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19906	Thank you. 11 I don’t think my denominator, the representative, understood me well, because I did not say that represented, I think this is a serious topic that through a representative’s question it would be, but through our Committee on Human Rights I think it should be. And I agree with him that this is an election year and I don't want this to be an election issue at all, because we all know very well in Parliament, now we, which will be an election issue for the elections that follows us, will win the elections. I especially do not want this election issue to be an election issue, I would just like to be an election issue of citizens' standards and a social moment in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19907	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have two options and you have suggested them nicely – whether we vote to take part in the agenda to conduct the debate or not. The cards are clearly open on the table and nobody keeps anything under the table, under the carpet. Replica to Mr. Lijanović. Mr Lijanović, I have great respect for you and all my colleagues, as the Commission does when the same representatives are sitting there, on a higher level, we are just taking off our responsibility and putting responsibility to a commission. And who's sitting on that committee? Do the Rus, the Kinez, the Pakistanac, the Srbijanac, the Bosanac sit there, and neither do I, the Hrvat? All the representatives of this House are sitting there. What's the commission gonna bring? Just stalling time and holding that man. We have two options, I said, will you accept that this is going in the agenda so we can discuss it or not? Are you going to respect the Constitutional Court's decision or not, if we're going to run this BiH properly or if we're going to do it, so ask yourselves now, this is not too harsh a term, I don't want it to happen, or we're going to bring it down by obstructions. I'm not into it right now, you know, but I'm not about everyone here underestimating me and bringing the Serbian people into a position of responsibility for what we're not guilty of. So, let's just be realistic and I don't appeal to you at all how you vote, I know how you vote. It's not easy for you from the Bosniak people to accept that this is going into the agenda, because you need to get out in front of the families of the dead, the Shecheids, I don't know, all the associations that I have great respect for, but you understand our position as well. And everybody asks me, says what you're sitting down, man, you want to ever run anything. I keep running, I keep calling, not because I know too much, but that I want this country and we here respect ourselves and each other if there's any compromise possible. That's why Mr. Lijanović would do well to have it resolved at the level of the commission, but it's not possible and so give it up and let's solve now, now, at this point, whether you're going to classify this point or not. We only have a yes and a no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19909	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19910	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 12 My replica is sent to my colleague Lijanović. You see, counterpart Lijanović is due tomorrow for BiH's statement on Croatia's quest for General Milovanović. What's going on here is whether we're all equal citizens of BiH if we're not aware of anything for a month, nobody knows anything, we don't know where, who's being informed, has Interpol been informed that General Milovanović is also a BiH citizen? Why in this country institutions do not react in the same way as in the case of Naser Orić and it is said – we have a protocol with Serbia. So we have the same protocol, distinguished colleagues, and with Croatia. Is General Milovanović less a BiH citizen than Naser Orić behind whom all BiH institutions have stood? We just want to know what we're on, whether we have the same rights here or not. That's all we ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19911	Second replica, Honorary Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19912	I am that this issue is resolved but not in this way, as suggested, I am in the commission, I am a member of that Committee on Human Rights, why don't we sit down right after, why don't we call the Minister of Justice, why don't we call the judiciary, why don't we, right up until midnight, we can do it if we want. And if we want to run the campaign, then we can tell the story as much as we want. If you really want to solve this problem, I'm at my disposal, I'm a member of the Commission, we're gonna stay half the night, today all day long if we have to until it's done, to resolve it, but I don't think we're gonna do anything about it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19913	Replica, dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19914	I volunteered for the replica because the SNSD Club cannot accept that running for this kind of agenda, as you say to your colleague Lijanović, is a pre-election campaign. These are also too serious questions for this to be a topic for some pre-election campaign. And for us from the SNSD today, there are two key issues, so – can this Parliament be defined and placed on the agenda as two Serbian generals as a citizen of BiH and manifest themselves through the opinion of the resolute minister on this? That's one thing. And secondly, do we even as a House of Representatives have the capacity to do more than just do what is present in the House of Peoples? That's two, two of the biggest questions today for this session. And if this Parliament, or we here, are not able to determine these two things today, and we are reading, then the question is why have we come here at all. Whether this Parlementary Assembly is definitely both in both essential and formal, both in the core and formal blockade, or today we are going to contradict a story here – and a pre-election campaign, and I don't know this and that, and the commission, and like this, let the commission and the pre-election campaign go on to it now is a completely marginal matter of the current position of two Serbian generals, one who is in prison and one who is wanted to be in prison. And that's how you understand, so from your relationship now on to this point of the agenda and relations, we can run the issue of the status of the House of Peoples and their blockades and parliamentary issues, but we think that this is too serious a question to be under the parliamentary question and initiative. Because we've all been questioned whether we can do more or not as a legislative authority. If that's such a marginal and irrelevant question for you, then we're really more, we in the RS have nothing to say about it and we have nothing more to talk about. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19915	Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19916	Oh, here, I'm sorry, it looks like someone's thinking about the MP's question has caused some dissatisfaction with a number of MPs. To clarify, I suggested it on the basis of a statement, that is, what I heard here, where it was said, we are starting the initiative because we want to get an answer whether Mr. Đukić is in prison based on some paper or there are no papers, so he is illegally in prison. If I were the Minister of Justice, I would now call the President of the Court and ask – hello, Madam President, here are all the debates, on what grounds is this man there? I'm against illegal detention, I'm against anyone without paper, etc., so no one here accepts it as normal practice. But we don't know, I don't know, and that's why I thought come on, I said, if that's all we need to know. But if we intend to open the debate through the agenda point of everything and everything, and each one sets hundreds of examples without being able to order, order, request, etc., I don't see the point, we'll just make a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19917	Thank you. Since the SNSD Club asked for a half-hour break, and I thought we should take this break and make an extended college, I would ask the club presidents, but I would also ask Minister Čolak, all those who can help solve this situation to meet me here right away and try to get out of this situation. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have discussed the extended College on the continuation of this session and that there have been conclusions that we have failed to agree on, so that we are left with work to continue. The debate on the agenda at this point is closed. All we have is a proposal for a new agenda item – Information from the BiH Minister of Justice on the current legal status of RS General Novak Đukić and information on the status of the arrest warrant that the Republic of Croatia has issued for General Manojle Milovanović. It is proposed to be the third item of the agenda. I'm putting this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19919	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19920	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19921	No microphone 14 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19922	From the SNSD Club, club president Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19923	You see, just a brief clarification, we wait for a part of the MP to come first, not everyone in the room, so I would ask the service to ask. We once again warned of the consequences of the vote. I think we've offered correct solutions and we've sought and we've shown our readiness for the minister to resolve this issue today. If we accept that item on the agenda, we should notify everyone. The minister showed willingness to resolve the issue very briefly with his discussion and to move on if there is a willingness, of course, to be there. In the meantime, things get more complicated, you'll see that with the information that's coming, that's not coming in handy, I'm talking about the BiH Parliament. And it would be good to use this point to intersect all of these negative connotations and solve this thing in a very simple way.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19924	This is what I think, given that a break has been requested in front of the SNSD Club, an explanation of the break. Is there any need to wait for the other MPs to come, is there anyone else? Okay. I'm putting on a vote proposal that I just read to include a new agenda item. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] In front of the SDP Club, please vote again. You can vote now. For 15, versus 19, abstention 1. I konstatovati that this proposal has not received general support. We're moving on, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19926	On behalf of the SDS Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19927	Half an hour's break on behalf of the SDS Club. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I expect the SDS Club to come looking for a break. In each other's communications, they said they needed answers, or to explain the break. That's why we're waiting for someone from SDS to come over and explain the break. 15 / short-circuited video/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19933	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I asked one question to the Medicines Agency and I got an answer that I absolutely couldn't, I can't accept those answers, because four questions were asked, one general answer was given. And that's why I'm setting up an emergency, or I'm returning to this area as an emergency to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to give me an answer. Also, on the conclusions of the House of Representatives, which went towards the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I received an answer that I am not satisfied with again, because it is incomplete and without legal basis in this section. So I return this to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers to give me a full form of response and deliver this in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19934	Thank you. Next to comment, dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked a question at the 56th session. First of all, I object to why you wait two months for the answer to be answered. The answer to these questions took no more than 15 minutes or half an hour. I am dissatisfied with the answer, because my question was related - is there professional control in BiH of goods that... to the presence of radioactive particles? It is said here that in the phase, it is applied to the Regulation, the law of the SFRY, so the regulation that is under way, so the Agency is trying to secure funds from the budget to control and monitor the environment,...the environment. Unfortunately, at this point, the Agency has no funds. Unfortunately, it means that if the citizens of BiH are literally transmitted this way, then they are not sure what is being imported into this country and how many dangers we face when importing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19936	Dear Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19937	Thank you, Chairman. I have asked the question, so the Federation Tax Administration and the Federation of BiH Finance Ministry. When it comes to the issue, the question has been addressed, related to the business of legal entities involved, meaning which in their job description, gambling. And here, I asked a similar question two years ago. At that time, gambling directors, fortunately according to the Federation budget and various funds, owed 56 million KM, but here, at 31.10.2013. 18 years ago, so until 3 months ago their debts were 33,109,762 KM. Of which, principal 26,183,000 and interest means 6,900. From this letter of the Tax Federal Administration, it can be seen that certain game directors and the institutions of the government, the IRS or the Ministry of Finance, and even the Ministry of Justice, there are certain reasons for doing these crimes, as we have, ev, mentioned in this response to this parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19938	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19939	Well, maybe it's a good thing this question came up today. So I asked the BiH Court of Justice when it would stop with the retroactive application of the 2003 Criminal Law of BiH in parts of war crimes and start with the application of a more favourable Criminal Law of the SFRY, in line with the Court's decision in Strasbourg and the constitutional court's appeal. ... when the court says that the BiH Court is not obliged to answer the question of how it was formulated by the MP, according to Majkić, because it deeply affects the independence of the judicial council's decision. So we won't be allowed to ask any more questions from this area. And then he says – applying the law in practice is a matter of individual assessment of each judge in each individual case. That means we're going to have what's happening to us right now, that one of us is going to be treated like this, and the other one is going to be treated like that, and we know who the other one is, and we're going to get that kind of treatment. This team, before the judgment of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg in the case of Šimšić against BiH in 2012, results in the possibility that criminal law of the SFRY such as the crime against humanity cannot be applied in all criminal acts of war. So this is the real message of the BiH Court, which is mainly intended for us coming from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19940	I don't have any more comments to comment on the answers received. Moving on to, b) New Parliament Questions Dear colleague Slavko Jovićić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've adopted the agenda, but from every point of the agenda, I'm interested in this. I didn't want to ask for business intervention and I'm right, I don't want to deal with speculation, I'm asking for a minister of security to appear here because there's information that currently blocked travel communication around the woman's by the protesters. There's also information that only 500 meters from here has been attacked by the Cantonal government. This is not all about fear and hostage new crises, which is something I'm afraid of, on the contrary, but I want the Minister of Security to come out here in front of a pay phone and introduce us to the current state of security in the country. There's no other point, 19 there's nothing, and I don't care about this one, or that resolution, or this one or that law, if it's in this country, I listed it as I heard it, but I don't want to speculate. I want the Secretary of Security to hear the real information and that he shows up here and says what he has. I don't have that information, but what I heard, I'm right, because I couldn't formulate otherwise. I had a business right of course to seek intervention, and it's all about the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. I repeat once again, not for my fear, the fear of the Srbin that tomorrow someone will accuse us, so they're looking for some new excuses, I don't know, and I don't know, they're looking for a blockade of Parliament. No, I'm asking for real official information from the Secretary of Security, not from someone out there on the media or I don't know the portal, because I don't care, I don't follow. Thank you very much. He shows up right away, I ask, I have the right, Minister, because he can't answer me in writing, he can't wait, he can't answer me orally.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19943	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19944	Here, before asking to change the subject a little bit. So, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate our colleague Ismeta Dervoz on his appointment at the position of First Deputy Chairman of the Committee for Equality and Non-discrimination of the Council of Europe, which is also a recognition for our derebtion and for Bog we and for this Parament. That's the first time one of our people has and gets that kind of position. Questions, my favorite topic, so for the Ministry of Defence – How many items are the locations of the prospective immovable and military property finally ready to book and delivered to the Attorney General with a status 31.01? Is there progress in the process of handing over inspective locations of the Armed Forces to entity governments compared to the situation of 15.11.2013? And for the Federal Board of Geodetic Affairs and the Republic Board of Geodetic Property, Legal Affairs of the RS, they answered me and asked for further information. I have obtained, therefore, a question relating to the dispute of the active legislation of the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Dupiliation, in terms of handing over requests to the Catastrian services and grants about changes in real estate data, and I have obtained a list of municipal authorities that dispute and do not accept these requests, and here I am delivering these two addresses as an additional clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19945	Thank you. We also congratulate our colleague on behalf of the College. Of course, her tenacity was paid in the work, but also in the demands for colleges to participate in these sessions, which we responded positively to. Dear Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19946	The parliamentary question is related to the agenda item which was the proposal when setting the agenda. Since there was no willingness to open the debate in Parliament on important issues from the domain of human rights, but also politics, we will take this opportunity to ask 20 parliamentary questions to the Minister of Justice about General Manojle Milovanović's status, since he has been called for a warrant in the Republic of Croatia. Since we had the situation the other day with the announcement that a warrant has been called for Naser Orić and since the highest peak of the state of BiH and the Federation entity has thus expressed its unity in non-acceptance and in dissuasion over the call for an APB and has announced that Interpol will make the request, as well as the rules, within 30 days around the status of the warrant, we have the situation that today is the last deadline of a month, from the day of the order from Croatia, for Manojle Milovanović. Why wasn't the same procedure in that case? So I ask the Minister of Justice – What is the status of this Interpol order? Did someone respond to Interpol on behalf of the BiH state about the warrant, and are there double rules, that is, why would the BiH presidency give its opinion on the Naser Orić case, and not on other cases that appear on Interpol's warrants? I beg the Minister, if he is able, since the question is neither complicated nor difficult, to give an answer immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19947	Thank you. Since I have a tip that in the same sense, counterpart Drago Kalabić will ask a question, so Ministers, if you can sublime those two questions with your answer, after. Here's Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19948	I thank the chairman. Well, here I am, also related today to the failure of the agenda point, I have to tell you that I am truly disappointed, here I am to use the mildest word, that we did not get support for information to see if Mr. Novak Đukić is being held captive by unknown NN faces and without any documents in this country. And I am now taking the opportunity to ask the minister of justice for General Đukić's legal status. As it is known by the Constitutional Court's decision that on 23 January 2014, he adopted the appeal of Novak Đukić and determined the violation of Article 2/2 of the BiH Constitution, Article 7. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and abolished the second-degree ruling of the Court of Justice of BiH and returned the case to the Court. Under that date, General Đukić was to be freed or received some legal document that would be handled, either personally or by some authorised institutions. I reiterate, I am disappointed that this Parliament has become so divided that it has not been able to enable it, to send a message that such a thing is inadmissible, no matter what man or nationality it is, to discuss it, to get information and to send a message in the future. But this message that was sent to me today is also strong enough for me and today it's quite clear to me. I'm also asking to take advantage of the minister's opportunity while he's here to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19949	Thank you. Minister Čolak has a need to answer these two questions orally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19950	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. 21 So I can answer in the way I already said it in an extended college when we were sitting. So, unfortunately, I don't have complete information, nor can I have it until I ask the authorities for information that I can present to you. Of course, I can in principle say that my position is that when it comes to our citizens, our citizens, that practice should be the same, the procedure should be the same. So that's my attitude, if you ask me for a personal attitude. And what I have already said, so when it comes to BiH citizens, when it comes to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, despite contracts concluded with our neighbours, BiH has no obligation to extradite its citizens. I can, therefore, ask a question that the esteemed representative Bosić has asked, so I can send a memo, and I will, of course, do, to the Police Body Coordination Agency, so as part of the answer to this question. And when it comes to this second question that the distinguished representative Kalabić has asked, I must also ask, in order to give a complete answer to your question, I must simply ask the relevant institutions, judicial institutions why it is so and what is the status. I couldn't answer that question from this place right now, I just can promise that I, here's how much I'm going to ask for that answer today and as soon as I get it, that's the answer you're going to get from me. So I can't really say in advance why it is, is there a solution or something else based on whom Mr. Đukić is in prison.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19951	A club of MPs, the president of the club, you probably have something, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19952	.../distant from the microphone/... that this is now what we heard, requires our answer and therefore I ask for half an hour's break on behalf of the SNSD Club and in the meantime that also at the request of Mr Jovičić, if he is not busy with the afternoon coffee with Mr Orić, Mr Radončić will also appear in Parliament and give an answer to the question. Half an hour's break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19953	In accordance with article 77, I'm obliged to give it half an hour's rest immediately. Youbiti be notified if another club asks for a break, so we don't just meet to let you know that another club has asked for a break, but you'll be properly informed in clubs. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19954	My colleagues and fellow MPs, since the deadline has passed, during the break consultations of members of the Colleges with the clubs seeking these consultations, are SDS and SNSD. They said, therefore, their club presidents, that their representatives and MPs had concluded that there were no conditions for the session to continue. Security reasons for the events that we find out through the media are also listed in Zenica, Tuzla and Bihac, and allegedly there have been some gatherings in Sarajevo, I cannot deny it nor confirm it. In the meantime, we also held a session of the colleges in the narrow composition dealing with the issue, so the continuation of this session and the College as to its follow-up, but not even the interruption, did not achieve 22 consent. I, as there is no House Chairman, came here in the hall, I would ask the Secretary of the House to let us know if there is a quorum here and then on that basis we should act.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19955	Only the secretary can't do anything until the quorum is secured. This is now an informal story.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19956	Excuse me, I'm running a session now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19957	You can't run a session, there's no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19958	No, no, I need to find out there's no quorum. So here's what I'm saying is that even after the try and after the break, there's no quorum to continue the session. We don't have a quorum, we don't have any business. Let me just say, so colleagues and fellow MPs who have come and those who are not there, we, in the meantime, will continue our consultations and you will be reported in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19959	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19960	You can have your word, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19961	Chairman, hold on a second. So, many MPs, wait a minute, so this is not the state of the quorum in the BiH Parliament, in the House of Representatives, many MPs went outside because this meeting was delayed and people came here to Parliament. In 10 minutes, you'll have a quorum here. You're responsible because you're not people, because you didn't get here in the gym when we were supposed to meet. Therefore, I ask you to wait, to determine whether there is a quorum or not, unless you have any other intentions. That's it, thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-06-0.u19962	If you'll allow a few words just. So it is clear that we do not have the necessary quorum for the work of the House of Representatives. We tried to secure it here on several occasions, but we couldn't do it. The idea of us coming here now was to end this session in a business way because the Rules of Procedure prescribes that for more than 24 hours only the House of Representatives can make a decision about it. Unfortunately, as you can see, we have failed in a business way to extend 23 maintenance of this session and responsibility for it, for breaking the Rules of Procedure and for this situation, and only now will those who have brought us into this situation take over. With this, we who have come here and responded, have done our part of the work. Apparently, apart from the MPs here, there's a lot of work for, not only Annex IV, but Annex X to the Dayton Peace Agreement. Session interrupted at 17:10 p.m.
