ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21651	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, before the beginning of the session, I ask you to honor with a minute of silence all the victims who have been killed in the catastrophic floods that have taken place in our country.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21652	Praise them. The expressions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sincerest condolences were addressed by the President of the Council of Europe, Anne Brasseur, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Janko Veber, President of the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia Trajko Veljanoski, President of Parliament's House of Representatives, Italy Laura Boldrini, President of the Islamic Assembly of Iran Ali Laridžani, as well as many others. I am opening the 67th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session by the chairman and members of the Bureau, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly follow the work of our House, as well as representatives of the media. The session also includes representatives of the BiH Law Department, the Central Election Commission, the Ombudsman's institutions for human rights and the Independent Committee for the Monitoring of Stay in Institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been committed in the BiH Court's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to the service information, 36 MPs are present and no one has justified today's failure. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. Point 3 is added to the agenda. Discussing information from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers on the consequences of the natural disaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Point 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the BiH Public Procurement Act following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. 2 Point 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Point 7. MP Denis Bećirović's request to discuss the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 8 has been completed. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Television System of BiH, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, which are negative. Point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, which is also negative. The previous agenda has been removed from point 17. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the request of the Joint Commission. The Commission adopted a conclusion requiring the BiH Council of Ministers, the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH, and the Directorate for European Integration of BiH to urgently deliver an opinion on the text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, i.e. on the text of the Amendment and Completion Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina with an amendment adopted in the House of Peoples, after which the Joint Commission will declare itself. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. I find that the 67th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 66th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Discussing information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the consequences of the natural disaster in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the BiH Public Procurement Act following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-2314, of 20.05.2014; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-2414, of 23.05.2014; 3 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-2514, of 23.05.2014; 7. MP Denis Bećirović's request to discuss the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2614, of 26.05.2014; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Television System of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-1814, of 14 April 2014, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission and opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications; 9. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in civil matters – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1914, since 17/04.2014 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2014, of 07.05.2014, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 11. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions – Proposer of the Commission for Gender Equality, No 01-02-4-60014, of 09.05.2014; 12. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a framework law on restrictions at the disposal of public funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MEP Niko Lozančić, Law No 01-20-1-1214, of 02.04.2014 (the emergency procedure law); 13. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a framework law on facilitating employment of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by MEP Niko Lozančić, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-1314, of 07.04.2014; 14. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the draft law supplementing the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MP Denis Bećirović, Law No 01-02-1-1114, since 18.03.2014 (Law in First Reading); 15. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the Senad of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the analysis of the provisions of criminal law governing the criminal situation of minors of criminal offences, with a proposal for measures, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH (realising the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 57th session, held on 05.12.2013), No 01.02-04-50514, of 09.04.2014, which reads "The PSBiH House of Representatives is in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH's emergency and no later than 30 days, consider and adopts amendments and additions to the general criminal law governing the criminal situation of minors in criminal proceedings, in accordance with the decisions and special laws on the protection and treatment of children in criminal proceedings." 16; The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on an Analysis of the provisions of criminal law in Bosnia and Herzegovina which regulates the criminal situation of minors, with a proposal for measures, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH (realising the conclusions of the House of Representatives from the 5th session, held on 05.12.2013), No 01.02-04-50514, since 09.04.2014; 17. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative below the 63rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 25.02.2014, which reads “based on Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives 4 of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 3306, 4106, 8106, 9106, 9107, 8709 and 2812), I submit an initiative in charge of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to, as soon as possible, adopt acts which a) abolish the fees of professional Members and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, b) reduce salaries for MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, c) reduce the fees of both Members and delegates. Given the difficult socio-economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I urge the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers to also approach wage cuts and other privileges. I think it would be useful to focus the savings on the formation of a Fund for the Scholarship of Gifted Students and Students in Bosnia and Herzegovina." 01-50-1-15-6314, of 25.02.2014; 18. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Ante Domazet's initiative on the extension of the 63rd session of the House of Representatives held on 25.02.2014, which reads "based on Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I am initiating an initiative to adopt collective or individual decision-making decisions on the waiver of certain rights that we consider unacceptable under the current social circumstances as a form of social privilege, in parallel or independent from the amendments to the legal rules governing the salaries and receipts of MPs and other officials at the level of all authorities in BiH. The decision would be reasonable to inform the public," number 01-50-1-15-6314, of 25.02.2014; 19. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the initiative of SDA Members from the SDA Club, which follows the 63rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 25.02.2014, (an initiative addressed to the chairman of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs), which reads "The SDA's Club of Representatives asks that the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, in accordance with the requirements of citizens, but also earlier initiatives of some Members, immediately reduce both salaries and all the benefits of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." No. 035-16-4-24314, of 17.02.2014; 20. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 64th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13.03.2014, which reads "based on Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 3306, 4106, 8106, 9106, 9107, 8709 and 2812), I submit the next parliamentary initiative, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to submit, no later than three months from the date of adoption of this initiative, the draft law on the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01-50-1-33614, of 21.03.2014; 21. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 64th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13.03.2014, which reads "based on Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 3306, 4106, 8106, 9106, 9107, 8709 and 2812), which obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare for the next three months and to submit to the parliamentary procedure a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would provide for the establishment of a state ministry of agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina", No 01-50-1-33714, since 2103.2014; 5 22. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-4913, of 29.10.2013; 23. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period 01.01.2013- 31.12.2013, issue 01.02-10-51214, of 10.04.2014; 24. Report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2013, issue 01,02-50-19-55114, since 23.04.2014; 25. Report on the work of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Staying Conditions in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been carried out in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2013 law, No 01,02-37-51714, since 14/04; 26. Annual report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, issue 01-37-56514, since 25/04; 27. A review of Parliamentarian Beriz Belkić's initiative from the 65th session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.04.2014, which reads "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I propose that at one of the next meetings in the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives the agenda – Reviewing the justification of the existence of administrative and supervisory committees in public institutions and enterprises", No 01.50-1-52614, since 15.04.2014. Moving to the realization of the agenda, point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 66th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21653	You've got the record. Any objections? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Parliamentary Issues (a) Comments on Answers received (b) New Parliamentary Issues At today's session, the MPs received the answers: Denis Bećirović from the Council of Ministers, asked at the 64th session, and from the office of the chairman of the Federation of BiH, the Agency for Banking of the Federation of BiH, the Agency for Banking of the RS, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons of the RS, asked the question at the 65th session of the HouseSaša Šemsudin Franjičević of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked the question at the 49th and 63rd session of the House; Dušanka Lozančić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked at the 64th session of the House; Beriz Belkić of Zijad Jagodić of Ministers of BiH, at the Council of Ministers of BiH, at the Council of Ministers of BiH, on the issue of the Federal Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Federal Ministry of the Federal Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Federal Ministry of the Ministry of the Federal Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Bursać and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers of Agriculture of BiH. I call on the MPs to sign up for comments on the answers received. First, a respected colleague, Saša Magazinović, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21655	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome you all. So, I am not going to comment on the answer, but I want to appeal to all of us to try to hold back these points of the agenda today, given the importance of the third item of the agenda – to consider the information on the consequences of the natural disaster, and to deliver our questions in writing, and to possibly prolong our comments for the next session, we will not lose a lot of time. And everything about this situation and all the questions and initiatives we wanted to ask can be done on the third item of the agenda. As Parliament, we should also appreciate the Council of Ministers' presence and possibly convert the debate and get all the necessary information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21656	Thank you. I ask Parliament - is there any need to vote on this proposal or can we acclaminately accept that we are not discussing Parliament issues today, that you can ask them in writing and leave that point for the next session to process it? If it's okay with you and there's no one specifically against me crossing to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Discuss BiH Ministerial Council information on the consequences of Bosnia and Herzegovina's natural disaster This information is included in the agenda by decision of the Kolegijum and the Kolegijum in the extended composition. I hope the MPs received a report from the BiH Ministry of Security this morning on the situation in BiH caused by a natural disaster. I call upon someone from the Council of Ministers who is in charge of this problem to read this report or present it adequately. Mr. Mladen Čavar, I think he was in charge of the Council of Ministers for the problem. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21658	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21659	Dear counterpart Šefik Džaferović, a parliamentary intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21660	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Where is the chairman of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21661	The chairman of the Council of Ministers has writtenly informed the College that he is unable to be here today and has tasked his colleague Mladen Čavar with representing this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21662	What are the reasons we know, I mean, if he's not gonna be here today, then I don't know when he's supposed to be here. Give us a reason why there is no Council of Ministers chairman. If he's not able to be here today, then he shouldn't be in this room at all. We need to know the reasons why he's gone today so we can accept this replacement. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21663	Thank you. Finance Minister Nikola Špirić, deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21664	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests. Well, before we show the bile, as far as I know the chairman, I don't have any information that he's not coming, he'll talk... and the information, as far as I know, will talk to a colleague of Čavar, when the information comes on the agenda. So let's see, let's check, if something hasn't changed in 10 minutes before that. So until yesterday, as far as I know, as far as I know and how many Council of Ministers know, and that's why I wouldn't want us to be raising our temperature for no reason right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21665	Thank you. I suggest, distinguished colleagues, that we make a situation for Mladen Čavar to present the Information, that after that we take a break and wait for him to come and chair and conduct the debate with him. Do you agree that's how we work? Please, Mr. Čavar, come out and read the information.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21666	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. 8 I would not... this information/state report in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding these floods... very extensively. I delivered this information to Parliament both in writing and in electronic form from the Council of Ministers, but today the agenda item is the Council of Ministers' Report so that the chairman probably prepared someone to present himself and based on the information I provided him. I will direct you to a few sentences as to what was done as regards the BiH Ministry of Security during this crisis period which began on Wednesday mornings when river waterways began to grow. In the early hours of the morning, the operational communications centre reported all those in charge of the rise of river water supply and the information was distributed on the ground. During the day as the waterway of the Bosnia River grew, requirements came to the Operational Communication Centre for the involvement of additional forces. The army was prepared the same day and the military began to act in accordance with the situation on the ground and in line with the civil protection possibilities on the ground as they sought help and what kinds of assistance they sought. On Thursday morning, a helicopter of the Armed Forces of BiH was in effect for the first time, in the early hours of the morning, endangered people pulled out of the wider Bosnia Valley area. The same day, international assistance began arriving Thursday. International assistance has arrived from the beginning in aircraft, helicopter units and emergency units with lifeboats. As they came, as aid came from European countries and other countries it was distributed on the ground at the requirements of the field. So the system worked and the system was established immediately on the first day of Wednesday-Thursday together in coordination with the entity headquarters of civil protection and the people on the ground we are humanitarian aid and all kinds, other kinds of assistance that we have received from the international community distributed on the ground. We're doing this until today only in the first few days this humanitarian aid was urgent, it was helicopters, lifeboats, special units, and today it's already food, medicine, water, pumps, etc. And we distribute them on the ground in agreement with the entity services and the services of the Brcko District. That's short. So here you have detailed details of what was going on, what roads were compromised, etc., etc., but about that after the president's information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21667	Thank you. I call on the Chair of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjeko Bevanda, to address Parliament on this agenda item. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21668	The Honorable President, members of the College, MPs, guests, all the prosthetics. I'll do it. We just finished a Council of Ministers meeting. The reason for my delay... any longer than five minutes is that I had to go to the office and pick things up, nothing more. So, we agreed to... file a report and then you have the information that Mr. Čavar prepared for you, which is shared with you, and I hope that these two things will be a good basis for your questions and everything else. I'll read what I wrote and prepare. I tried to cover all the activities undertaken by the Council of Ministers, taxing, pragmatic and what was done. So, the Council of Ministers' report on the activities undertaken by the catastrophic floods that hit our country from 14.05.2014 to this day. 9 We are witnessing that since 14.05.2014, to this day in BiH huge rainfall has caused the spilling and flooding of numerous rivers from their troughs in the areas of northern and eastern Bosnia that are gravitating in the Sava River Basin, which, in an inexplicable devastation, carried primarily the irreparable human lives, and once again, I am using the opportunity to direct the expressions of deepest compassion to the families of the Ministers of the families on behalf of myself and on behalf of the Council of the families of the victims. Preliminary estimates suggest that more than 950 thousand inhabitants have been moved from their hearths, more than 100 thousand residential buildings and buildings, more than 230 schools and health institutions, huge damages in agricultural holdings, industrial buildings, transport infrastructure, and a particularly pronounced problem is the resulting huge number of slides. Although they are dealing with preliminary assessments, it is clear that there are huge consequences on Wednesday. Besides human casualties, there are damages to property and huge damage to infrastructure. The Council of Ministers has vehemently reacted to the situation and, in accordance with its legal powers at 7 held meetings over the past period, made a number of decisions and conclusions in order to establish the necessary assumptions, as well as the capacity to act in such emergency situations. So it's already 15.05. The Council of Ministers, meaning the day after the flood, has given consent to the BiH Ministry of Security to ask for international assistance for protection and rescue to help the civilian population because of the situation caused by the floods. It was the basis, it had to be made to have any contact at all with those who needed to help us. The same day was also decided to grant funds from the current reserve Budget BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 which also approved the amount of 200 thousand marks required by the Ministry of Emergency Security, not to talk and not to drag out, all of which you know, helicopters and those emergency situations. At the next session, on the next day of 16.05, it actively monitors the situation on the ground and takes into account the further deterioration of the situation, and the need to activate the additional capacity of the Council of Ministers has made two decisions – the appropriations from the current reserve Budget BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014, at the request of the defence ministry amounting to 380 thousand marks, the Ministry of Security amounting to 220 thousand marks. Given that international aid shipments began to arrive in the customs area of BiH, the Council of Ministers concluded at its meeting of 19.05 that international aid shipments were being released from import duties and other indirect taxes, and thus tasked the Directorate for indirect taxation, competent inspection services to speed up all procedures and give priority to these humanitarian shipments. At this session, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is tasked with opening dedicated accounts, foreign exchange accounts and accounts in KM to collect financial assistance, while the Council of Ministers will make a special decision on the allocation of funds. A decision has also been taken to raise funds based on the payment of day-to-day earnings employed by BiH institutions to provide assistance in BiH's flood-related territory... 2014 At the same time, a conclusion has been reached with the responsibilities of the Administration for indirect taxation of donations of permanently confiscated goods. So this conclusion regarding opening an account has been realized. And the second conclusion relating to... conducts through a statement by employees with a payroll, so it's not limited to day-to-day earnings, it can all voluntarily give in to the amount of funds it wants. This is a recommendation and is implemented quite normally through a salary calculation in the fifth month that will be carried out in the early sixth month. The Council of Ministers shall be held at meetings 21 and 22. In 2014, considering the current situation resulting from the natural disaster, the flood in BiH, May 2014, through information from the resolution ministers and the report on the natural disaster of the Ministry of Security, at the same time considering the conclusions of the BiH presidency held on 20.05.2014, and on the basis of the 10 commitments made under the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue reached 9 conclusions. They're not long, I'll read them this time if whoever didn't see them, consumed them, we gave the order to get published immediately. The first is the conclusion – all the ministries and other institutions of BiH are in charge of taking the necessary measures to function under the exceptional circumstances of the flood. 2. The BiH Ministry of Security is tasked with regularly informing the Council of ministers about the exact number of flood victims in co-operation with the institutions of entities, cantons and Brcko District. 3. It is up to the BiH Ministry of Security to provide the BiH Council of Ministers with information on the necessary assistance for the affected areas in continuum with relevant institutions in entities, Brcko District, cantons and municipalities. This concerned that emergency situation and what was said was the first set of urgent needs related to food, clothing, shoes, medicines, medical equipment, recovery equipment, and similar needs. 4. It is tasked the BiH foreign ministry to prepare an initiative to organise an international donor conference to help BiH resolve the consequences of catastrophic floods in co-operation with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and other ministries. 5. It is tasked the BiH Foreign Ministry to co-ordinate activities at the joint performance of BiH, Croatia and Serbia towards the EU and other international financial institutions in seeking assistance. It's perfectly normal for this to involve everyone, meaning everyone, from the D.E.I. technical authority to all ministries and everything else. Six. The BiH Co-ordination Body for Protection and Rescue has been tasked with delivering information to the Council of Ministers on a regular basis on the situation in vulnerable areas for information. Since this body was established by the Framework Law, which I have already stated, it has its composition, defines it, everyone is involved, all levels of government in it. Seven. The Ministry of Security is tasked with preparing for the Council of Ministers an amendment to decisions on the establishment of a BiH Coordination Body for Protection and Rescue if personal changes have occurred in the institutions from which they were appointed. In fact, only a brief clarification, it is attached to the previous conclusion that the decision was adopted in 2012 according to the law. This was only if someone left, left, was no longer in the coordination body. To date, we have not received any authority to alter the composition of the Coordination Body. 8. The Council of Ministers formed an Interresor Working Group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, two members of the Federation government, two members of the RS government, one member of the Brcko District government. The task of the task of the task force is to prepare, in cooperation with other ministries, the criteria for the distribution of assistance to BiH affected by the natural flood disaster in May 2014. Nine. The BiH Council of Ministers calls on all competent institutions of all levels of government to quickly approach the damage assessment activities, which will be the basis for seeking international assistance. On many occasions, we have appealed to this. On the same day, after this conclusion, it is directed to all, so also to the governments of entities, and to Brcko District, and to the cantons and to all state institutions because 11 this is all the essence that simply, especially where it is possible to assess the damage, because all these days is happening is that everyone wants relevant damage assessments in order to simply assess this synergy activity which.../shortly interrupted video/... institutions and the World Bank, the UN, the European Commission leads and whose assessment team begins to work 29.05. The hasty procedure will end, but at the same time there must be relevant indicators based on which they will be able to react. Speaking of damage assessment, it is important to point out that the representatives of the European Commission, I have already said this, the UN World Bank, at expert level and in accordance with international standards, will carry out an assessment of the damage caused by this natural flood disaster in May 2014. So they're going to start working, I said, already, in 29.05, which is a reliable basis for looking for various kinds of help in the reconstruction process, which without any doubt exceeds the real... and capacity of our country. At today's session, as at each session, the Council of Ministers discussed the dynamics of the implementation of the conclusions from previous sessions, as well as reports on the state of BiH prepared, distributed to you, with a date of 26.05. I have now tried in the shortest lines to expose the BiH Council of Ministers' work cut out for the period since 14.05.2014. I have here daily meetings, conversations, my own personal, the talks of ministers with numerous representatives of foreign governments, international organisations on the subject of finding a solution I did not consider necessary and not to mention because these activities were in the spirit of the commitments made at the previous Council of Ministers meetings and additional contributions, along with the obligation to function and all others, to facilitate the situation which is critical and very, very difficult. Given that the BiH Council of Ministers has been acting in these situations in accordance with the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents in BiH, which Parliament has made since 2008, and that the Ministry of Security is coordinating activities in the planning and operation of BiH institutions and bodies in... protection and rescue, the BiH Council of Ministers said in October, as early as 2012, that decision on the establishment of the BiH Coordination Body for Protection and Rescue. It is the expert operating body of the Council of Ministers which coordinates all activities in the event of a natural and other accident in BiH, as well as... providing international assistance, and it is operational, there is an Operational Communication Centre of BiH through which all information is poured and operational action taken. I'm taking this opportunity to especially thank both centers, both the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Security because I was, uh, talking to people. I'm taking the opportunity to give this team that works operationally daily, and to whom it's very difficult, I'm grateful for my efforts. I particularly stressed this above all that all communication, information, assessment of the situation, needs and other data from this coordinating body through the BiH Ministry are created in the form of information and proposals that go towards the Council of Ministers, Parliament, the public and these are relevant data. This was also the basic reason why I gave the order to the Deputy Minister of Security, as well as the chairman of the Coordination Body to Mr Mladen Čavar, in addition to the operational day-to-day information, to deliver the requested information and attend the 67th session of the House of Representatives, which he does today. I informed Mr. Živković about this in writing. The reasons are primarily practical but also institutional because by function... available... and as the situation on the ground changes at any moment he will expose the information, i.e. the information has been provided to you, and offer answers to all 12 other resolution ministers concerned with the realization of all of this, and offer answers to any questions in order to obtain a complete... [[You don't understand.]] Thank you for your interest. I hope that the debate that will go will be aimed only at one goal – to help those people who have died and that it is our obligation, including you, to help them. And I hope that both debates and conclusions will be deprived of opportunities to collect cheap political points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21669	Thank you, Chairman. Here, as we have agreed on a way of working, I think it would be a good idea to take half an hour to take a break, and then after that, those who want to discuss applications for discussion and discuss this issue together. Half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats, continue our work after the break. The first for discussion was registered by distinguished counterpart Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21671	Ladies and gentlemen. For 20 years, I have had the opportunity to professionally deal with crisis management, but what I have seen in BiH exceeds the darkest assessments that the human mind can ever imagine. The damages are terrible, catastrophic, and we'll probably be dealing with these damages for the next few years, if not for decades. They can be measured primarily in lost lives, lost material goods, lost agricultural land and lost jobs. But I'm not gonna talk about it. I would like to apostrophe some parts of the BiH system on protection and rescue, and above all that applies to the Armed Forces of BiH. I think the Armed Forces of BiH justified the expectations of citizens and the example of people and women who are employed in the Land Army, in air forces is a real example of solidarity, responsibility, sacrifice and their engagement. First of all, the Armed Forces prevented more victims in human lives. What did not satisfy me in these catastrophic floods was, first of all, the relationship between the media and the amazing relationship between public broadcasters who as RTRS, as far as I could see, from the first day they put themselves in the position of protecting and saving themselves by conveying information to the citizens. It didn't happen in the Federation, or it didn't happen at BiH level, BHT slept for several days, federal TV slept for several days, so they probably woke up by interventions or opportunities on the ground. But that's their problem now and our problem when we discuss these emitters. What also concerns me is the fact that the Armed Forces, which are both self-sacrificed and humanly sacrificed, have a solid part in the rescue actions, have a problem which is a foolish nature. It is such a nature that, for example, helicopter forces lacks the very modest 13 material resources needed to train aircraft. I had a chance to get to know the pilots, because all this was happening as far as the Zenic-dobe canton of the helipads in Zenica, who say helicopters can't fly because they lack some kind of copper thread, which is missing headphones, which is missing this, it's missing, etc. And I've made an effort to get a list of missing assets, and I think it's beneath the dignity to talk in this country about these missing means to keep the helicopter forces in full function. According to the pilot and their elders, all our helicopters were operational, we needed no international assistance. So we have so many helicopter units, or as it's already called, that provide effective protection and rescue in BiH. What also impressed me was the co-operation of all those who were killed in this disaster and apostrophe of Doboj's co-operation with neighbouring municipalities from the Federation, Gradac with Shamac and all those who selflessly and sacrificedly entered the front of human life's defenses first and foremost, and material goods will likely be rescheduled for years. For this reason, while respecting the fact that we have many reported, I propose one conclusion which reads: – The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of providing funds for repairing BiH Armed Forces helicopters so that the First and Second Helicopter Squadron, called the BiH Armed Forces, can be fully equipped to effectively implement measures to protect people and material goods and other obligations of the BiH Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21672	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, needs a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21673	Thank you, Mr. President. Uh, I answered, and thank you for the opportunity, just that, I hope for a really misunderstanding, because they told me that it was said around that I informed myself that I would not attend this session. I got Mr. Živković's memo, protocold, the same day I replied that the information would be prepared by Mr. Čavar, I never told anyone where I wrote that I would not attend the session, nor would it occur to me. I attended sessions where there were totally neutral subjects. This was purely because of the misunderstanding I felt the opportunity to, I felt the need to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21674	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21675	I hope that everyone here is aware that the floods that have taken place in BiH, Serbia and Croatia are events that will measure the time, according to which it will be before and after the flood, not only politically, but economically. I'm not sure that you're all aware of the scales and the consequences, not just of those people who flooded there, but of all those who live in these areas. With that in mind, I can say right away – institutions have not passed the exam. And 14 please don't tell me it's picking up petty political points. The government will always say, if someone criticises what they don't do or how they do, that it's picking up petty political points during the great tragedy. If we say call an emergency, mobilize all forces, whether they are flooded or not, you come out as a government and you say it's picking up petty political points. If we say the Council of Ministers has not met the first three days of disaster... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you've got the conclusions you've made for twenty, when you've reached your conclusions, give me your conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21677	Please, just a little bit, we'll have a chance to get everybody to answer the word and correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21678	Your conclusions were held from the session on 21st and 22nd05. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And what were you doing on this last one, where are those conclusions? Where are the conclusions from before? So you guys, after what day it is, it's five or six days you've been making conclusions and saying it's a good thing. So don't argue with anything when we all know you didn't pass the exam.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21680	Please let me hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21681	Please provide this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21682	I'm trying to do it, and I'm asking you to help me do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21683	So this is a disaster. Well, I can't believe there's anyone here who thinks the institutions, especially the Council of Ministers, did what they were supposed to do. If he didn't have to react immediately and answer immediately, that's the same situation we had when they were demostrations and when this Parliament was in the blockade. It is a situation where the crisis staff is immediately corrected and does not declare the state of emergency at the level of BiH institutions. This obviously couldn't be avoided, this is a natural disaster of great proportions. And it is clear that in such conditions anyone affected by such a disaster is powerless, helpless, that people are small ants in conflict with such natural forces and no one is accusing any level of 15 authorities of what happened. We're talking about what the government should have done before these floods, what it should have done during the flood and what it should have done after these floods. So, every year BiH, both the RS and the Federation and the environment hit at least one disaster. It's either dry, or it's a flood, or it's big fires that get angry every year, or it's any other disaster than tsunamis, because we're not at sea, or some devastating typhoon-type winds. And we don't have anywhere so far, not in the RS, not in the Federation, not in Brcko District, not in the entire BiH system that should react to such phenomena because we are irresponsible, because the government is irresponsible. I don't want to accuse anyone here directly, but we will ultimately ask that one of the conclusions be the formation of this Parliament's investigative committee on the behaviour of the institutions at the time of the floods and after the floods. There are many open questions to be answered now, or perhaps not now, but in the next period. Who is responsible for the embankments and flood protection systems, why has the coordination not worked, why has the Sava desiccation that passes through the Federation, through the Brcko District and through Republika Srpska not been able to take any stand together, and they are all concerned... so here they are all at risk together? Philosophering what is the responsibility in such situations as disaster and tragedy, that the government deals with who should declare the day of mourning is a direct example of the infunctional, moral dysfunction of this society. So there'll be time to analyze what happened and who's responsible for it. We are proposing, and therefore we think that this session is important, that this is not only a session at which the oral or written report of the Council of Ministers will be submitted, but that this is a session that will have some concrete effect on the lives of people who are still in a state of great need today. We propose, and we will give conclusions to that end, that the Executive Authority, the Council of Ministers, re-scheduled budget funds. It's not enough, people, to make a decision on each employee's daily and to wash their conscience and the need for solidarity with those people. The Council of Ministers must search the budget and at least 100 million marks must be provided. Let's just because the authorities didn't pass the exam, so it was passed by citizens who really showed for the first time that under conditions when the system doesn't work they can show great solidarity and can, in some ways, organize themselves. And that is why we as SDS, among other things, will ask you as a House of Representatives to adopt, among other conclusions, and the conclusion that is required by the Council of Ministers to carry out its obligation to return 540,000 marks to the SDS and we will focus all those resources on helping the flooded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21684	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21685	I thank the chairman. So more, more appeal, or attempt, although I suppose he will be unsuccessful in addition to all the appeals, so that there will be no politicisation, we will not prevent it and that is, obviously seen from this discussion that it will be. I still expected that we would get the strength to divide it into two things. One is a serious analysis and an approach to what we have missed so far to fix, and the other is to see in the other part what it is that we can do for the people who are injured, by what means and by what way. But apparently, it has also been seen in recent days, that, of course, some are more important political points, which may be legitimate. And so far, we've had a hard time, and with these difficult moments, we've been talking all kinds of nonsense, people swallow it, they're going to swallow it, and now they're going to swallow all these 16 nonsensees, because you can't stop someone from using their right to tell everything and everything. Why am I saying that? More to remind the story of the authorities, the story of the institutions, because in this country everyone went through power and through institutions and all were both power and institutions. I would just remind myself that these days loud, loudly loud those who accuse allegedly some institutions, and for the sake of political pre-election points have settled people where the former state is precise and made it clear that these people are not allowed to be inhabited there. And what they think now is that someone forgot and thinks that the analysis won't ask, because this isn't a problem since yesterday, this is a problem inherited for a long time. I can't have those who have divided the country giving a lecture on why we didn't suddenly agree on the embankment, and we all know why we didn't agree. And in the analysis, we're going to tell you why we didn't agree and whether we needed to change something about it, and about a lot of those things. I urge that there be no hypocrisy, there are no ones here who can be amnesty of responsibility. We can try to find certain ways out of this situation, and we'll all find ourselves in one new mud of politics where we'll see it's funny that whoever made the bleach in this country is calling someone else out for that white man who may have made it, because we're in such a political situation, because these political partners that we all know by heart who's been doing what we've been doing in the past few years and over the past decades. Smart suggestions, human, should normally be respected, because I think that should be a goal for everyone. Political views and everything, but we'll react to those situations when someone tries to turn it on one man, one institution. There aren't those who aren't responsible here, there aren't those, it's obvious that it's failed at many levels, but it's for analysis, it's for a while, not for cheaply fast-tracking political points as if someone's forgotten what's going on. We can pay a lot back because this has the consequences of 10, 15, 20 and 30 years, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21686	Thank you. Replica reply, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21687	Well, I really don't know what to say about qualifications like this. First of all, I don't know what Mr. Kalabić's replica might be unless, if I understand what the SDS is accusing of, because people are flooded. So SDS did not settle Trepšić, Vucilovac, Šamac, Doboj and other flooded places, these are settlements from a hundred and two hundred years ago. And it hasn't been SDS for the last nine years in power and responsible for the embezzlement and civil protection that obviously didn't work. For the RS, I know, I don't know about the Federation, but I do know about the RS that it didn't work. It's not the SDS' fault there aren't any boats that you've shared with the municipalities and that someone stole in the municipalities, or you stole those who shared. Therefore, there will be a story here, but don't give replicas to it, and don't tell me you're small political points because we're asking you to return the funds belonging to the SDS to be paid into the Solidarity Fund. What do you expect from us? Let's not do that so we don't collect petty political points. What do you expect the opposition to keep quiet? Well, work, it's our job to tell you what you're doing wrong and what you need to do, so either at a time, especially at a time of disaster when you need general mobilization. And declaring everyone, advertising the opposition as buying cheap political points is a cheap attempt to avoid criticism and responsibility for what was not done as it should be done. And let me tell you what is the greatest responsibility of all authorities, here I call no one, no action. So this is about the crimes of not doing it to solve the damage and to prevent 17 from the damage that could have been predicted, because that's what we had in 2010 but in a much smaller scale.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21688	Thank you. Dear Representative Dr. Milorad Živković, House Speaker, corrects the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21689	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. There is no opposition and position in BiH that is affected by the floods. In Doboj, who is the opposition and who is the position, which in Doboj, which was the most injured city in BiH and RS, has been responsible for not doing in continuity since '91. From where the SDS and the head of the municipality were in charge and responsible for letting the sirens go after he let the children go to school and pulled all his personal belongings out of the facilities he owns. What are we talking about? Don't talk about the position and opposition in BiH, don't call ourselves individually now, because there's no policy story here anymore, there's a subjective story here now, about people who lived in those areas or now live there and share fate with all BiH citizens. And it is not true that solidarity is now shown in BiH, solidarity is shown in BiH every time any natural disaster is shown. This is now the biggest solidarity shown because it was the biggest disaster of nature. Don't turn today's debate into individual charges, because then we'll start from municipality to municipality and mention every single responsibility since '74. where five pumps went missing in Doboi that were supposed to pump, who stole them, etc., etc. Let's talk about what we can do for these people, they've chosen us to talk about what we can do for them, and some competent institutions, if there are any in this country, from BiH level to local level, question each individual's guilt. And let them deal with it, let them establish responsibility, and let us here see what we can do in these seven days to help these people. Let each of us draw conclusions that can be implemented in the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers to say if it can be done and to see that we help. We will not help them by accusing each other and arguing even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21690	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21691	Well, I think we'll end up with replicas. I think Mr. Bosić is perfectly aware of what I said, but he has a need to behave the way he behaves, and that's his choice. I have not mentioned one word, nor accused the SDS, I have tried to appeal to this knowing that we will come to the facts spoken of by Mr. Živković and that it is pointless to accuse ourselves in this way because then we will stay in..., but I said if we are looking for a full analysis, if we are looking for, I did not defend anyone today, you noticed, not one institution, is ending this story today... analysis, this is just the process of analysis just started today. And I understand that you can't ask all these reports to be complete because there's a lot of things we need to see 18 really on the basis of the arguments about what who did it. But to go out like this and say to the ignorant world that until nine years ago it was the perfect civil protection, better than American and then destroyed, it's incorrect, it's incorrect, it counts on illiterate, ignorant people, a forgetful people who will forget that it is so not just today but the last 20, 30 years it is so. And let's see what we can fix, along the way, and see who's to blame. But I said one thing, if you're going to ask us to listen to it and we're going to say our opinion on it isn't correct. It's not right for someone to bring in, have as president of the municipality, bring in 200 families and bring him in and move him into an area that's absolutely blue for 50 years, and he didn't even have a document that these people can't build houses here, now there's both the victims and the dead, and we're talking, and we need to talk about what's with the boats and why they're not pulled out, but we need to talk about who brought them into that area, who's responsible. No, it's like we're not going to, and we want to talk about boats, and I am for boats to talk about whoever it is. What Mr. Živković was talking about, we all have our own agendas to do a lot of things to teach others lessons and lectures, that's what I was talking about. Because there's no saint here, there's no way that someone like that came from the monastery is giving a lecture to someone. Can't have a gas company at the door to Doboj building a land like that and putting the river of Bosnia at risk. You can see that, someone gave such a crazy thing permission, someone gave it to you. If you don't want to talk about it, the experts will have to talk about it, we can talk about what we want. That's what I was saying about not being a place and time today, and that kind of appeal was that we could find thousands of examples now about it, let's leave it to the institutions that are going to do an analysis of all the guilt, everything that's been going on, and on the other hand let's give a boost, conclusions, orders, whatever you want, to the institutions to react to the existing state of it. That's what I was talking about trying not to call anyone, but at the same time you can't stay silent to that kind of hypocritical representation that the problem came from yesterday, that it was never before, and that only those who found themselves were elected yesterday to be absolutely responsible, and the saints of some previous period were doing it perfectly and unwarrantedly removed from the political scene because they were perfect. No Niko was perfect, from the present, from the past, and I don't know how far back. I'm saying again, I'm not powerful enough to do that analysis and I'm not getting into it, but I'm appealing that these shootings won't end if we get into it because it's not a good approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21692	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21693	Here's to all of you. So, I'll try a few things to point out first. I think it is quite clear and unequivocally understood what Mr. Bosić was saying, and this refers first and foremost to the need for urgent response and action. I realized it was an accent, and of course what is the requirement that comes from us from the SDS is primarily to make a full analysis of the events that have hit the entire BiH and the wider region. If that is, therefore, this three pages of short information, it is certainly not the kind of content that I believe everyone expects to be comprehensive. And when he says the system doesn't work, then it's definitely not working. I will specify only one segment, a system of general mobilization primarily of members of civil protection. Not in an area that was directly affected by floods, where a capable population was to be mobilised to help a population who was at risk, and there are also materially technical resources in those areas that should have been engaged. That system didn't work and you can't defend something that's a fact right now. 19 I listen to my fellow Mešić, who says – the phenomenal role of the Armed Forces. And then you're making a conclusion from the SDP, you say -- it's the Council of Ministers' duty to fix the helicopters. The awesome armed forces that worked, but please, there's just something missing for helicopters. They didn't respond to the task of the Armed Forces. The investigation. Well, of course, an investigation should be carried out in all segments and at all levels, to fully establish what is the responsibility of the institution, what is the responsibility of the individual in the institution, where it could be reduced, so the consequences of the accident that hit the people, cities, companies, etc. Well, I can't accept this information that speaks completely unequivocally of objects in the Federation that have 1,760. Has it already come to count how many objects it is, and in RS it is not. I do not believe that the Federation is more efficient than the RS in determining the damage. So here is a complete analysis that will cover all segments in this society that should act and be effective. So, indefensible is the thesis that Kalabić and others are trying to say that the system has worked phenomenally. There are huge errors in the system. And that's exactly what Mr. Bosić pointed to, and that's what we're pointing to. The system did not function at the time of the elemental accident. On which segment, at which level, in which extent, in which part, a comprehensive analysis is necessary. And now, today, it is necessary to react urgently, at this hour of emergency response, not enough what it does, which is what the authorities of this hour are doing when it comes to the needs of those people who need it right now, not tomorrow, but this time they need help. And this, when it comes to the resources available, has a lot of opportunities that can be put into service to help people who are looking for help.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21694	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm not Mr. Kalabić's lawyer, but he doesn't have a respected counterpart right to replication. Whoever was listening to the exposure did not mention the system, nor did he defend anyone, nor did he say that someone was working in one way or another. If we are thinking today's session, as Mr. Živković has appealed to the chairman, to bring in, to help the people, which should be the key, then this is not going to take us anywhere. Or today we will enter the variant that I, too, have countless objections, I was appalled when I watch your television, yours, hid the Bevanda chairman, gone, Lagumdžija fled abroad, Špirić is nowhere, and on some local television I find a hit from Brcko that Defence Minister Osmić is present there. Instead of every television, it doesn't work as a minister, to show him that he was, but man gives maximum effort to help the people and only that local television, I don't know if I'm the only one who's seen and someone in Brcko, but I don't believe there didn't have electricity was a flood. Publicly, although Kalabić did not do it, I commend Republika Srpska's TV program, I commend the chairman of the Federal Government who answered the phone more to journalists than to his associates to meet the public, to sit in the cabinet, not to lie in the room, not to drive in the car, but Nikšić runs everywhere. Should I explain the picture, Mr. Bosić, yours, when it's all calmed down, you're going as a tour through Doboy by the asphalt that's as clean as you are today, and you're giving a lecture to someone whether Mr. Dodik was everywhere. Well, all the world's cameras showed a pregnant woman coming down the window and thank Bog she gave birth and had a baby. And you're going on a field trip, the crowds are attacking everyone, and your television shows. It is degutant to say whether the prime minister of the government was in white boots, the unfortunate woman, not the unfortunate woman who did not, but the unfortunate woman who was very smart, sacrificed, but I say the unfortunate woman in the sense that she was running, sacrificing herself to help the people, and your television is the main thing is whether 20 were in white boots. Now that's the demagogue you're dealing with, and you're lying to this poor people not to be helped. So please intend more assault, let's do everything through the discussion today to tell you what who did it. And I saw what the ministers and members of the Council of Ministers did. And no one was hiding in their cottage or in their shed or running from this country, but the media got so high that I was scared where I was too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21696	Thank you. Discussion, esteemed counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21697	Thank you. I welcome all present. I will try to adapt to the situation and to what we could, as a representative home, do. As far as timing is concerned, I don't think we can boast that we reacted very quickly. No Niko has prevented us from calling emergency, emergency, or such, or such sessions, from consulting, not doubting that there were individual activities, that people were acting. The real question is what can be done now. And I believe that BiH institutions, entity institutions, local communities and cantons, all together, will make a serious analysis, come up with accurate and concrete data to face the dimensions of this accident, that BiH institutions will again, in collaboration with entities, etc., make some recovery programmes, recovery programmes, take account, make criteria, etc. But it's a thing that's been working a little longer, but the question is what do you do now? So, all in a way to save people, this human resource that is the basis for the development of society's existence, etc. Not only because of them, but with which we will practically develop this country if we have 30 or 40% of the population in a state of social need, in a state of inability to take care of themselves, etc. So everything needs to be directed towards the rehabilitation of this human resource. We can, for example, adopt a conclusion today, or report, or a decision on the adoption of these initiatives under points 12, 17, 18 and 19, which the College could agree and have already completed, and all the resources resulting from the adoption of these conclusions, as unscheduled, point in this direction. Today, we can also adopt some laws that have absolutely nothing to do with the business, the economic environment, etc., which will indirectly help this country. First of all, I am referring to this law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities, because it is also translated into money, the business of our businesses, etc. We can also support budget rebalancing, of course when it is in one professional and objectively realistic way done. We can safely analyse these dimensions related to these situations both with the Armed Forces and with Civil Protection and within the regulatory framework of things. What's very important for me to see what this means in practice, here's where we had the chance to check it out, what does the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue mean, what does the coordination body mean for protection and rescue? Can they respond with their capacity, dimension, funding, to this purpose at all? Is it just a reform that we have the designs of such a structure at the state level, and in the state, or did we really expect them to be able to respond in these situations? Obviously they're not, and I think you should see what can be done. I am in favour of accepting all these initiatives that today will certainly be, going towards the preservation of this human resource and facilitating the situation of the people who have found themselves in such a situation. We launched the initiative today, of course by respecting the suggestion of fellow 21 Magazinović, we did not publicly present it here but we put it in a procedure where we proposed that the House of Representatives invite the Presidency, or recommend, as you like, to launch the coordination mechanism with the Constitution provided, with entities and Brcko District on the subject of "Government, control of the embankment in the Sava River Basin". What Mr. Bosić was talking about and I have information from the field, etc., that there was no coordination between cantons, entities, two cantons, etc., when it comes to these integral objects, embankments, etc. And let's say some of the things that we could do today, there's no need to suggest conclusions because we already have some things on the agenda, it's just now our relationship with how we're going to treat these things. And finally, when it comes to the political points mentioned here, I am convinced that no one can get them in relation to the mood of the public and the mood of the citizens, or even the opposition parties that we are for this whole term of office, so no one is lying to them and it is better that we do not try or do it. And finally, one request, so the way and the debate that we're having today isn't scary for people, that we don't scare people, believe me, everything that goes beyond the context of help, etc., our mutual accounts will only burden and intimidate people, and it can happen if we continue in the tone in which we were going to be almost better and that we didn't put this on the agenda, and I hope it doesn't happen. And suggestions to the College, you have 15, 20 people reported, the replicas are obvious, so we are planning a day, two, three as much as we need to work on this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21698	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21699	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, let me say a few words about the information we got. First of all, I want to say that what we heard in the presentation of the Council of Ministers is valuable and very important at this point to hear as information, although in the first wave we only got the Information Ministry of Security and I managed to, I sought and I got this which is a summation of what all the Council of Ministers took in some previous period. I also want to say at the beginning that I think this is the first time that after everything that has happened in BiH we talk about this in Parliament, but because of the seriousness and difficulty of the situation in which the whole of BiH is located, I think this should be a continuous item of the agenda, every next session, so that we have information, even if it is the shortest, from the Council of Ministers in terms of realised activities and new businesses that are planned or in the perspective of being done or realised. I think that way we would have one continuity, and we would also get the efficiency of having certain things that we're concluding today or which Council of Ministers has already concluded, to be informed which direction it is going, whether it's going, how it's going, easy, what it is that we can all help on that plan. What I think is important at this point, so given the seriousness, difficulty and complex situation that BiH is in today's society, it is important to point out that for all the institutions of the government, therefore any level to consider in BiH, at this point, two things are most important, in my opinion. It is an effective organisation of government institutions to perform certain tasks, number one, and number two human solidarity. Human solidarity can very much contribute, of course, to the modality and the way we're going to lead it. The government of the RS 22 has already run for the Solidarity Act, which will be the subject of discussion in the National Assembly on which the National Assembly will declare itself, I believe will also be adopted, and legal modality will be found in order to bring about the realisation of this human solidarity. I would also like to say that it is rude and impertinent of the SDS, which today potentiates the failure of the system, i.e. potentiates the need for the system to work, and thus ignores, or pretends not to see or not to know that all the political parties it has in Parliament are participating in power at any level, local, cantonal, entity or state. They are not at all levels but they are at individual levels, and it is therefore rude that they seek someone's responsibility here and ask to establish an investigative commission that will determine one's responsibility, and in this system responsibility they do not see themselves and the mayors of municipalities in the RS where they exercise power. We do not see the City of Bijeljina where the mayor of SDS and the complete structure of the local government of SDS in Bijeljina, while we have a situation that is similar to the flood, this is, of course, much worse and much more difficult than it was in 2010, so the same and similar consequences happened in Semberija and Bijeljina in 2010 when the Government of RS and other institutions gave assistance in boats, in equipment, in various other means, about what was said for Doboj. And when the flood occurred in 2014, none of it in the Civil Protection of Bijeljin, no boats, no boots, no water-extinguishing engines, none of it. The mayor said there are only two boats, and we know that much more than two came to Bijeljin in 2010. Not to say that this same local government in Bijeljina has done nothing for the past four years because she must have thought it was a flood in 2010 so it might happen in 50 years, and it has happened again in 4 years and much worse. That he did nothing to deal with the issue and problem of the dipping in Drina and Sava's belt around Semberia at the border with Serbia. But she was therefore admirably and diligently concerned with the fact that she was nagging and asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to regain jurisdiction over public areas in the City of Bijeljina, which they do not have jurisdiction over. Why? So to sell these public areas and thus fill out the municipal budget that today, in 2012, when we had the local elections in Bijeljina the budget was down by 1,600,000 marks, today is 8.5 and some say 10 million in a minus the city budget of Bijeljina. This is the authority you represent, and I agree that we should seek responsibility, and we have the institutions of the entity, or the RS -- and the government and all the others, the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, all of them were on their feet and all of them did what could be done. When it comes to the Council of Ministers' conclusions, I think these are the conclusions that we can accept at the moment. I would particularly apostrophe as, I think that in the perspective might be the most useful in resuscitating this situation is the fourth conclusion in which the Foreign Ministry is asked to engage with the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights to initiate a donor conference for the reason that BiH, unfortunately with its organisation and the problems we have, is in a very difficult financial and economic situation. And after a natural disaster like this, we can't believe from afar that we can't think that we can do a single piece, and especially not all the damage you can do to repair and repair it without some more significant donor conference. And that's why I think this should be done immediately, that is, planning such activities because I think that such a donation can give significant effects. As for what I might add to these conclusions is, and this triggered me seeing in the media that RS Prime Minister Mrs Cvijanović and the Government were already working on this plan, so to suggest, that we may conclude that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is considering the possibility, namely holding a meeting with representatives of all the banks that exist in BiH and considering how and how people and businesses who, we say, have failed and dismayed with this catastraf, how it will probably help them because the banks will probably, on the basis of contracts they have with their clients, regularly seek out their claims that they seek and in normal conditions. 23 I think that the Council of Ministers must do something about this plan in order to come to an agreement on how people, and especially companies that have failed, can help in this regard. So to conclude and to bring this down, what I said at the beginning -- I'm asking and I suggest that we make it clear today that every next session has a agenda point on this, and with this problem and this question. And I would also like to say that Bijeljina, where I live, and Semberija is one of the three most endangered areas along with Doboi and Šamce, where there is still no state of emergency, where there are still several villages where people cannot return to their homes because of the circumstances, that there are 6,000 people at this point who are consumers of public cuisine. But what I think in general, therefore, the entity health ministries and all others who can contribute, at this point urgently, would have to make sure that certain activities that would be on the table and in order to protect human health, because because of the inability to clear the ground and the rapid recovery of the ground from the dead animals and the rest, we are now these days and at this point as time warms up we are putting a serious risk of a number of people getting health problems, i.e. getting various infectious diseases that will later represent another kind of difficult problem for them, their families and society as a whole. So, after the shock that took place with the flood itself and that disaster, I think that at this moment, in addition to this material recovery and houses, infrastructure and other, the protection of human health, that is, prevention of certain diseases, is also a very important segment and issue, and so I suggest that the Council of Ministers, possibly at some next session, consider this issue and suggest, possibly in this coordination body that will work on these activities, suggest one of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21700	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21701	I didn't mean to answer, but again in the discussion of my colleague Marković, we heard that we are rude, in the discussion of Mr. Kalabić, we heard that we are foolish, and in the discussion of Mr. Slavic, Aunt Slavuj, yes, in fact, everything and everything. I don't think that's correct. And I think the only thing you heard from Mr. Bosić was two proposals, and that's that we're going to give up our funds for humanitarian purposes, that's one thing. Secondly, as Mr Belkić has said, we will propose budget rebalancing and find money there to help the endangered population in BiH urgently, and believe that there are many of them today. Third, fourth and fifth, we're going to suggest conclusions on how we can all be together, we can't do it ourselves, we're acting urgently to help these people. Mrs. Milica Marković, you're not rude You're very cultural, Mr. Kalabić, he's not such a fool he's so smart, and they're Slavuj, you'd better take care of what you say and not beat as much as Maksim in the division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21702	I would ask the honourable MPs to stick to the Codex in which we do not speak personally, but we speak either to strangers or indirectly, because this way of discussion will not lead us far. Even when we think we're polite and we teach others a lesson, we haven't contributed to the atmosphere that should rule this House, and this topic certainly deserves it. 24 Dear fellow Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let me spend this other replica, though I have nothing to spend on. In order to avoid these floods, esteemed counterpart Babalj would not have come to terms, because in four years I watched the stenograms have 46 minutes and 20 seconds of performance in Parliament. And here's the record today, all together. Well, Mr. Babalj, do you need a better picture when, I'm not defending anyone, people see everyone, and not me, when the president of the Republic and prime minister in Doboj are saving people, you're holding a conference in Lukavica on dry land and attacking those who sacrifice their lives there to help the people? Is that contradictory, not to say normally, I'm not insulting anyone. But they're pictures. I, when I saw you on the road in Bijeljina, knew that all the dikes would drop, because you didn't go there to help, you went there to film your television and you were helping something. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Never in my life, I wish I was in good health, so I'd be a month ago in the flood, because I'd know what's gonna happen. How do you know, and you only know everything and you attack all those who help. That's your problem. But good. Did I just appeal that you intend to attack, rather than today, what my colleague Marković says, to do everything we can to see what we can do to help. You're proposing budget rebalance. So who are you going to take to give to someone, when everyone's asking and everyone's missing? No rebalancing. _________(?) Capital investments.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21707	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21708	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Jovičić, that you were listening to the presentation of President Bosić, the SDS does not give for flooded 50,000 but gives 540,337 marks. Unlike your colleagues, Mr. Jovičić, I come from a flooded municipality, the Bratunac municipality, where a SNSD delegate came in with one truck, Staš Košarac, Čolović, RTRS cameras and said he drove that truck to clear the terrain. When the RTRS cameras went out, he went off with that truck. So much for Mr. Jovičić to help SNSD. In my municipality, too, SNSD activists, I forgot to say that Mr. Košarac was otherwise forced from Kravica, and they told him to buy and buy your packages and get out of here, SNSD activists in Bratunc shared a liter of Vitinka along with SNSD access. And they've been forced, Mr. Jovičić. The vice president of the RS National Assembly, Mr Salkić, was also natjerati to come to him personally to give him a package. By contrast, the mayors of the Eastern RS municipalities that come from the SDS, I'm talking about a specific municipality where I am, they brought the helmets and the helmets of help, and all this assistance was delivered exclusively to Civil Protection and all this assistance was shared by Red Cross activists. Help came from East Sarajevo, from Tchainich, even from Little New Gorazd, we got two aid trucks. I have to say, the help came from Tuzla, the tow truck. And they all came to Civil Protection and were shared over the Red Cross. Niko of us made any political profit. I must say, the President of the Republic has come. He came in for 15 minutes, made a statement that he was going to help us, from 30 of our demands to none of us were answered. The only help we've received, by my private calling and interventions by Minister Osmić, is the promise that we'll get a mechanism of the Armed Forces at the rink's recovery. I must tell Mr. Živković that Mr. Petrović, and you know it very well, Mr. Živković, the night the floods were with the students in the House of JNA. When they came to evacuate him from the House of JNA, he refused until the children were evacuated, and when the children were evacuated, your Minister Jovičić did not want to send for him. Mr Petrović's family is
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21709	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21710	Here I am ending, Mr Petrović's family was in their house and flooded. Municipality of Bijeljina, allow only Mrs Marković to answer further, received a boat in 2010, he was in use. As far as the embankment is concerned, he is the authority of the Water and Staff Agency of Mr Anđelić, who is now in the DNS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21711	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Dr. Milorad Živković, home president, replica. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21712	Mrs. Dervoz had a business.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21713	That's right. Mr. Živković has ignored business intervention for the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21714	I'm sorry, I've already given my word to my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra Pandurević, and I couldn't interrupt her for her business intervention, but you're right. Your word, you have a business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21715	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Alliance for a Better Future Club, I demand a half-hour break, and I suggest that all clubs consider, within the break, access to the way we discuss this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21716	This is a business intervention and simply a Club of Members of the SBB requires half an hour's break. Half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, I have been informed that we have a quorum for further work. I'm asking my esteemed colleague, Ismet Dervoz, if he needs to explain his break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's explained at the request.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21719	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to welcome first of all my colleagues and colleagues, all present in the O.R. Well, my replica, I'm very, very honest with you, very hard to talk about right now. And I come from a city that has suffered huge damage, and where people today have huge problems with water, so not all of them have been removed from buildings, courtyards and so on, many of them clean, many are suffering, it's a very difficult situation, and yet I think then, so in our 27 city we're not even close to getting hit by these troubles like the people in Doboj, in Bijeljina and where to go. And I answered the discussion about this material, but sitting like this and listening definitely cannot sit indifferently and listen to these practical political bickerings. I'm very sorry when someone at this point wants to get a political point and that's completely pointless, not to say crazy, not to use another word. Because believe all those people who, if they look at us by accident, and I hope they don't look at this mess and the shame here, we disgust them when we talk about what kind of things. Mr. Bosić, here I see that you signed up for the line, that I tell you you didn't celebrate the first day you went to the media, so you criticized the order, I don't know who anymore, I believe you didn't even know who you were criticizing, so you just didn't get any political points, so they didn't even release you with that statement. Miss Pandurević isn't here. They're very bad at boasting, it'd be really lame for me to come out here right now and say what I did in my town or any of us here right now to go out and brag. I know, here's Boško sitting next to me, he wasn't even close to the flood, I know he has something to say, there's something to boast about help, so it's definitely not about solidarity to say that he's solidarity and that, but it's completely pointless, so now he's coming out here, a lot of people are being irritated by some of our decisions, some of our ineffectiveness, some of our stories about what nonsense in this unfortunate state of BiH, and now the desire to score, by putting words in other people's mouths, is completely pointless, and I think we're going to be even more...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21721	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21722	Here's the moment, that we're going to deepen the gap between us and the citizens by talking about all sorts of nebulous things. And please, from the SDS, don't classify now, it's not time for that, we're a long way from that. The culprits certainly have, from this Parliament where we sit, here I and all of us, to the Council of the local community, but it's a process that needs to say something about it, and not us so casually now that we're banging all kinds of nonsense. I appeal to all MPs to refrain and support Mrs. Dervoz's initiative where she said we should come to ourselves and think about everything we say. Thank you, and I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21723	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21724	So I don't even know what the replica is, but don't explain every discussion about this situation to cheap political points anymore. Take your cheap political points by making a decision to provide the Council of Ministers with 10% of the budget to help these people, let that be your cheap political point. Let's help people. We're not going to do any more replicas and we're not going into any further debates here. Right, it's degutant, we'll refrain from any debate, but I urge you to take cheap political points by making concrete decisions that will help the people. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21725	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21726	I really, really have to replicate it one more time. It's not clear to me as soon as you understand that we don't want to help the people? We will certainly help the people, and we will certainly make our contribution. Not us, but all of us must, all of us and one man in BiH in the coming period will have to contribute to the recovery of the flood. The greatest responsibility, of course, is expected from the authorities. Which one's running away from it? But at this point, when we don't have how many houses in the RS submerged on this paper, how much water did it come out, how much was cleaned, how much was not cleaned, how many cattle were really submerged, how many hectares were destroyed? So when we don't know at this point, the mass of things are still unknown to us, we can't even talk about concrete things. And right now, we're giving some expertise and this and that. Please, so here's who sits amongst us MPs here who understand this problem of these troubles to the petty details? Whoever's sitting here from the Council of Ministers so he can say right now, people that and that's the problem, right here and there, right now, that's the focus of the problem. No matter how much trouble you want. No Niko escapes from help, no one escapes from helping people. And don't be a lifeguard now. Maybe it won't be 10%, maybe it'll be 20%, maybe it won't concern just this budget, but it'll have to focus both the next budget and that budget in that context to be resolved. This is going to have to be rescheduled for years, but not like this, and it's not going to go out and it's going to be crazy and it's going to say du, du, du, du, resuscitate. Come on, please. This will have to require a lot of work, effort, material, professional processing of all of this, this won't just be possible to give 10%, maybe 10% will be small. I believe that all and one employee in BiH will have to touch this trouble that has hit us, etc., etc. We can't talk that way, it's totally unserious to say now, here we are going to give up this, that, we're going to take down capital investments this, she. That, I fully support all that story means, but wait until the time comes for us to act at the right moment in the right place, and not just throw ourselves here in some senses. It's not the time to throw away concepts, and it's not the time to be courting someone now, throwing off some percentages and talking about some millions. Maybe it'll come out far more millions than we mention today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21727	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21728	I take good care of myself not to say some hard, too strong word, shame on me that at times like this we use expressions and speech that doesn't match the moment we're in. But something I certainly want to say that I think we should all know here in this House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, and this is about you too, Mr Bosić, that the question of changing the budget is not about the Council of Ministers but is about us. No one has prevented you from proposing to amend the Budget Law by which certain items you consider should be put aside to help the local population. That's one thing. 29 From your club is also often referred to as rebalancing. There is no rebalancing at the level of BiH institutions. Do not use phrases...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21729	We didn't mention
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21730	So, from your club, here's my colleague Babalj talking about rebalancing. So let's finish the stories that don't stand. So let's be a little bit adapted to the situation in which we are and take care of what BiH's jurisdiction is and what is the role of us and the Council of Ministers in this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21731	Thank you. Col. Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21732	Since it really is necessary, first of all, to present the facts, you have facts that the SDS has sent to the benches and it is not about, therefore, the rebalancing already specifically writes here – Proposal for amendments and addition of the Law, therefore, the procedure provides a proposal for amendments and addition of the Law. Therefore,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21733	My buddy Babalj said so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21734	My colleague Babalj said well, you know, it's just that it's about whether he told this termology or that. The fact is, we need to reroute funds for other purposes that already exist here. Whether it's going to be called one way or another, it doesn't matter, it's important that we get to the point. My colleague Babalj said well, he said the point. Next thing you know, it's right here, so the extra funds transferred, etc., you have everything on your desk. But while I'm at it, my colleague Majkić, let's say that there is therefore an approach here that is said, among other things, that some wanted to say that they sacrificed their lives and are held accountable. It's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21735	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21736	No, but your colleagues at the club, I don't want to name anyone individually, you know. It's very dangerous, especially if it's, let's say, the most responsible officials, because they can decapitate the people, for example. That's what you hear from your benches, not my bench. Next, it's not enough of a busy system. Well, there's not enough involved in the Hunters' Association, people are now clearing the area around their houses. And part of the area that lies in the valleys of the rivers where the water has retreated should be located only those dead animals that need to be recovered later. So the system just doesn't work, the system doesn't work, the system has failed. 30 The issue of organic waste is certainly something that needs to be a special subject, but I urge you to look closely at what we have suggested as conclusions, when it comes to funds that can be provided through expenditure cuts, wherever possible, to transfer funds to a special account. That's all you have in our conclusion number one, that I'm not reading it right now, if I have to read it just for the sake of need, among other things, we suggested. After all, if there is any intention to allocate more significant funds, you also have the opportunity to suggest it, but we ask that this is immediately done by emergency procedure, to enter among other things, and to support emergency procedures, to deliver the amendment and addition of the Budget Law here right now, we will deliver it, of course, is not a problem as far as we're concerned. We said what to do, concrete steps. If Parliament makes a decision and supports our conclusions you will have, therefore, on the table of this proposal which will be contained in all the details containing the amendments and additions to the Budget Law. Next, you have specific duties here for the Council of Ministers. Also when it comes to that part, we did not say that everything the Council of Ministers said was wrong, but we just added some of the activities relating to municipalities that have objectively the biggest problems, that simply the people of the municipalities have the opportunity to at least transfer some of the information that is directly available to them. We didn't say everything was wrong. Read, then, at the end of the day, the next, we'll be in charge of the Council of Ministers. Perhaps this deadline, which we have given 60 days to report regularly here, is something that needs to be corrected, but we have come out with clear and concrete conclusions. They're one. You have our three conclusions on the table, so far delivered. So we approach this problem very responsibly, and I would say in one of the best ways.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21737	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21738	I would just like to ask the members of the College, yesterday, did the College ask a question yesterday about budget rebalancing and did it, on the SDS proposal, and did only Miss Pandurević vote for rebalancing?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21739	The correction of the wrong allegations has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21740	Okay. You have all received a request from the SDS to supplement the agenda requiring an emergency task of the Council of Ministers, and at the end of that request it is said that the BiH presidency is also being prepared for the Budget Rebalancing Draft. That's what we voted on at the Expansive College and referred, when it didn't pass, to the esteemed colleague Pandurević, who attended the session of the Extended College, then today he is running as a part of the agenda. As we've seen, it's not running again as a part of the agenda. 31 But I asked an esteemed colleague to be there when I debated, for they interrupted me in order to respond with a replica immediately and I did not pass through the anger of this half hour of pause, and even if there were a few days of pause, I would not be angry, that people who didn’t get a total of all the SDS, including your president in Doboi, voices as far as I got votes, were telling me what they were doing and how they were doing in Doboy. So, check the data, Milorad Živković, when he comes out behind the pay phone, says the verified data. In total, how many SDS, including your leader, did not get the votes I received in Doboj and gave me the right to say what was going on in Doboj and how it was happening, and those who talk about it, and here it was mentioned and, now we will not mention the widow, how many there are, we all know that they hold half of Doboj as well as your commander is holding half of Doboj in real estate. And you know what they call Doboy today? Obrenovac, a city that has the same name as an unfortunate city in Serbia that passed the same way as Doboj, and according to the SDS chief. And let me tell you about your help, as SDS as a party, which you generously offer, 570,000 marks to the people of RS and BiH, and there is no help in Budget for 2014, you give something you don't have. It's like a million dollars now from the BiH budget, there's no such money. And even if there were some of them the way I know you do, we'd be dividing our people into municipalities, because it's a way of working in the continuity of the SDS. And let me tell you, and check that out, humanitarian aid as you share, mentioning Doboy again because it gives me the right to talk about Doboy, I'm not going to mention other cities and I could mention other cities, to buy through your activists that help to buy canned elections, that's what the SDS does. And then you here with demagogues and voices, a little louder speech, think that the truth among the people will be known and recognized to win the election. You won't win the election, you won't win the election. Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go. /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21741	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives. It would be good if today during this debate we didn't forget what and the point of the main order and why this is today the point of the agenda. BiH has hit an unprecedented natural disaster so far. And I don't think this is the time for political debates, political arguments, this isn't a topic for political disputes, I think today is the time for a full mobilization of all available resources in this country, and all with one goal is how to tackle all these losses that we've had, above all human and then material and how to help endangered people. I think that today we should have one responsible and serious approach, and I think that the three key messages that should leave this session are, number one, responsibility for all of us and seriousness, number two, showing full unity in readiness to help people regardless of whether we are from the positional or opposition parties and under number three – show solidarity. I think at this point we must absolutely put aside all of our political, ideological, party, religious, national, entity, any differences that exist in this country. I also propose that we all give up the replicas below this item of the agenda, and I propose that, in the end, I propose that, after the debate has been held, after hearing everything the MPs have to say and by the Council of Ministers, we immediately vote on the Information and Conclusions that will be delivered to end this item of the agenda and then move on to the next item of the agenda. Of course, that's what we need home for. 32 I remind you that as a member of the College, on behalf of the SDP Club on 21 May, I requested that we hold an emergency session and the College to agree on holding a session with such a agenda. A colleague of Živković, I must be honest, reactive, asked the Council of Ministers to do so, this morning we got this information, the truth preliminary, and today we have this as the first working and main item of the agenda of today's PRS session. I don't think I'm going to say much about the condition at first preliminary evaluations. I think the greatest loss of human life is the loss of life. On other material damages, they are still summed up, 18,600 households are completely flooded, a huge number of dead animals that are threatening today, a large number of ice-skating sites, etc., etc. Our top priority at this point is to help people have food, water, medicines, basic supplies and see what we can do to make this delivery as efficient as possible. Unfortunately, all those who had the opportunity, and most of us were on the ground in different municipalities and local communities, had the opportunity to hear in some locations that some even abused such a natural disaster in a way that they stole literally and robbed the abandoned homes of BiH citizens. That's why I'm on behalf of the SDP Club and I suggested and that's going to be point 7. Proposed amendments to the Criminal Code to sharpen penalties used by individuals for the robbery and theft of property of people who moved from their hearths. An important issue for the public, for Parliament, for all of us, I suppose the question is what about the Framework Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods that we have at the state level. I recall, according to Article 13 of the BiH Council of Ministers' State Law, it is competent to declare the existence and termination of a natural or other accident on BiH territory on a proposal from the BiH Coordination Body for Protection and Rescue or, not at the request of the entity's competent authorities or Brcko District. I am publicly asking the question and I would also ask the Prime Minister to make it very clear to the House and the public who is responsible that the state of the natural disaster on the territory of the BiH state has not yet been declared? Although, to be honest, we've already mostly received information about it, but I'm guessing most colleagues here in the highest legislative body, there's still no precise answer to what are the reasons why there's still no state of the natural disaster, and why has someone prevented it? In the end, what is the purpose of this session, at least when it comes to this agenda point? This is preliminary information from the BiH Council of Ministers, and all we can do about this agenda is propose certain conclusions on this topic, which will eventually be made public by the House. Given that, I'm going to suggest 11(?) Conclusion: 1. The House of Representatives gives expressions of condolences to families who were killed during the natural disaster in BiH. This is the first because, I repeat, I consider human lives to be the most valuable. 2. I think that, as a House of Representatives, we should express our gratitude to all individuals, organisations and institutions who have helped the endangered population during natural disasters. 3. We should show our special gratitude to all foreign citizens, international organisations and institutions that have provided and helped to tackle the consequences of the natural disaster in BiH. 4. I think that the House of Representatives should call on all political forces in the state to fully turn to the work of the institutions of the system that must be particularly placed in the service of flood recovery and devastation in these difficult times. 5. The House of Representatives calls on all levels of government in BiH to rebalance budgets that will reroute as many funds as possible into the state's reconstruction function. 33 6. I think it is important that today's House of Representatives invites the EU to express additional solidarity and understanding towards BiH that has been hit by an unprecedented natural disaster, and that BiH treats the aid process as a candidate state. Seven. The House of Representatives supports the insistence that an international donor conference be organised as soon as possible to restore areas affected by natural disasters, and in this sense supports the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries to continue negotiations with a number of international institutions aimed at preparing that conference. 8. The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to make up and provide information within 30 days on cases of unfounded price hikes, especially life supplies and sanitary supplies during the natural disaster in BiH, as well as on the measures taken by the competent authorities. And we know very well that it happened in the first days. Nine. I think it would be important that today's House of Representatives particularly praise BiH's Armed Forces for the determination and courage shown in the actions of evacuation and rescue of the population from the most vulnerable areas. Ten. The House of Representatives calls on all levels of government in BiH to pay particular attention to the need to obtain the following items: high pump capacity pumps, small transmission and dryers pumps, medicines for people of different purposes, medicines for domestic animals, chemicals and hygiene, adequate vehicles for transport, fuel for working and transport machinery, cereal, etc. That is, therefore, the proposal for a conclusion that I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21742	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21743	I really won't look back much, but I have to say about this money – it's not true that it doesn't exist in the budget. It has existed in the budget since 2005 and is carried over every year under the term of the neutral assets and is kept in a special account in accordance with the decision of the High Representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21744	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21745	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests. First, here I want, no matter how pathetic it sounds, to once again express my condolences with the families of the dead in these disasters and solidarity with the victims. A representative of the international community recently said that these floods have wiped out inter-entity and interethnic borders, which I would not really agree with, but certainly, on the basis of this 34 debate today, have highlighted inter-party differences. And from the first debate, when one debater praised, so to speak, the Armed Forces of the Ministry of Security, uh, until a later debate, were actually recognized in the statements of our colleagues by that party tone. What I'm saying is, no doubt, this disaster has shown humanity, and that humanity manifested itself as solidarity, but we must recognize it as solidarity at the inter-human and inter-neighbor level. But what was left? There is no systemic solidarity in BiH. Why? Well, because there's no system. And that's the basic problem of this country. So not only in this segment when it comes to..., i.e. preventing the consequences or reducing the consequences of natural disasters, but in all other segments. And I have to say it kind of bothers me when parties that are at least co-responsible to the existing system in all areas, whether it's the police, whether it's dealing with natural disasters, call this ineffectiveness system. So we have to be a little more self-critical here and look at each other. So the question here has already been asked several times why at the level of the BiH state it was not possible to declare the state of natural disaster or a colloquial state of emergency, etc. This is a question that requires an answer and I have no objection to the fact that the acting minister of security and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, etc., that and more detailed answers why this was not possible. But I would say that it was not possible for the same reason why we cannot bring, to put it this way, an effective coordination mechanism in co-operation with the EU. So the same problems are there, the reasons for that is the same problem, so the systemic nature. And then we have a paradoxical situation, so the Minister of Health of the Federation visits the Minister of Health in Slovenia, then Croatia, then the cantonal minister in Posavina. On the other hand, the RS Health Minister visits his counterpart in the Republic of Serbia, and then again meet in different formats of each other, so to speak, entity ministers, etc., etc. And during the tour of the flooded areas in Posavina, the president of the Posavina County Assembly asked me to ask the Federal Institute of Health Insurance or Rajko Ostojić, the Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia, to refer an epidemiologist to the Posavina County. So it's obvious that there is no system in this country. And why isn't he here? Well, he's not here because the World Health Organization, whose I was for a time, therefore, a member of the Executive Board, has departments, among other things, to monitor and prevent infectious diseases, and this BiH state does not have a public health office. And no one can tell me that there would be a public health care office at the state level that would deal with both these things and a lot of other things that would be necessary for the citizens of BiH and without natural disasters, so that it would be inconsistencies with this system. The Swiss Confederation doesn't have a health ministry, but it has a Department of Public Health, so it deals with these issues, and here are the ones that have proved to be most likely needed in these disasters. And I can tell you now, all these conclusions that I have heard so far or almost everything, and who have come to the table signed here, I am preparing to support them as here almost exposure to the risk of the Bianca supporting all those who will report in the course of this debate, because I am sure that in this situation faced with this disaster and to be fair faced with the recent elections, no one will propose anything that would be necessary. However, regardless of what I will suggest, so on and so on, a few conclusions, I believe that after the end of this item of the agenda, and before declaring the measures we will be in charge of the Council of Ministers, it will be necessary to take a break and all these conclusions in one consistent way to sum up and then this is the best way to expect them to be realised because the Council of Ministers knows best what they can and cannot do. And of course, with what I've already said, supporting most of these proposals that have been heard here, I certainly believe that something called the rebalancing budget should be accessed, even though it's not supposed to be in our legislation, but if we have the Budget Law, then there may be this law on its addition, the amendment. 35 I further believe that there is a need to find a way to form a particular fund that will allow companies in these fatal areas, especially flooded enterprises, to survive and which will not be able to work and produce in a specific period within a few months, e.g. Subsidizing part of the salaries of these people, thus keeping both businesses vital and their jobs. Furthermore, I am not, I have no, I have no doubt that the infrastructure will be repaired in BiH or will be done by the institutions of entities or states, or it will be done thanks to the credits of international financial institutions, but what is priority needs to help people at this point. It is necessary to help farmers whose crops have suffered from the donation of seed material, to donate fertilisers to them, to enable them to remoderate that field, although the season is near, it is still not all lost to the end. We need to help people fix their houses, build those that have been destroyed in the rinks, help repair those that have been damaged in the floods. It should be done everything to organise a donor conference as soon as possible to prepare well and, of course, it needs what is now available, in addition to what is part of the funds available to BiH institutions, reroute and redistribute in a proper manner, so by amending and supplementing the Budget Law. For example. I have information that already, within the framework of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, there is a significant donation that would now be a dry bread for the victims of some 170 tractors, of some 70 motocultivators, motor saws, etc., etc., and that the Council of Ministers is tasked with making adequate decisions to focus these funds primarily on the affected areas whether they are flooded, whether they are damaged by rinks. And I think that in one proactive way, by focusing on the measures we need to take, we need to continue this session today. Of course, no one can block anyone's replicas and promote themselves and their party through all of this, but I don't think this is the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21746	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21747	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we will have to put the Rules of Procedure on the agenda again. Look, we left three minutes for the line, but really for the line, not for the discussion. A lot of what we heard today was actually on the trail of discussion, not replicas. I'd ask you as much as you can, I know it's hard, to cut where you see that it's not a replica take the word, I mean, because otherwise we're going to have to bring down the replica for a minute, it's going to be the only way. And the other thing, when you're from the College, is to announce to us or let you technically sign up, that we know when you sign up, how long your discussion takes, not like this, to get involved. But here, I've finally come to say a few sentences. This morning after we received the information, as Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers here, I reacted here in Parliament when it became unclear whether the chairman would be present at today's session or not, and I said I was looking for reasons why there is no chairman, because if there is no legitimate reason and today he is not here, then there is no need to come either. Thank Bog, you've come here today and we'll have a chance, and most of the Council of Ministers are here to discuss this important matter, I don't think there's any more important matter. What we are experiencing today, as of 14 May of this year or 13 May of this year, began in Sarajevo, so from here we will start to survive, so we will deal with this elemental disaster, the state of the natural disaster, the catastrophes of a long time in the future, and this will be the main topic in BiH. And I am therefore sorry that I have not seen more than 36 initiatives from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Belkić is right there, and then to the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm sorry, Mr. Bevanda, I appreciate and respect you, that I didn't see you right away on the 14th, 15th, we had a session here, you're the chairman of the Council of Ministers who is in office of the government, and you're the first man, according to the Council of Ministers Act. If this had happened in Germany or when Merkelov happened, Mrs. Merkel was in her boots right away with the people. In Britain, in America, wherever it happened, the leaders of the executives were immediately with the people. I haven't seen you, and I've been very sad about it, you know, right now, and I resent that. I'd like you to give some too much explanation and explain why it didn't happen. I called the Secretary of Defense the same day, talked to the Operations-Communication Center, there's a lot of problems, the same day on the 14th afternoon it was not clear whether the Council of Ministers would give 200,000 marks for the kerosene flight of helicopters, only the evening it was settled. You had to be if nothing here in this building and keep a constant relationship at least through television with the Bosnian Herzegovic public. I know that your powers, our Council of Ministers, are much less than that, for example. in Germany, as it is in Britain, as it is ultimately in Serbia, Croatia, etc., but you are the Council of Ministers of BiH. You have other than the original jurisdiction and jurisdiction of coordination and I think that, apart from some people from the Council of Ministers, especially here, I must, therefore, say this because it's true, the defence minister who flew that day by helicopter, he flew a helicopter to Maglai with a member of the Bosnia Presidency, couldn't because of the weather troubles to reach his destination. People at the Department of Security who were constantly at the Operations-Communication Center. Some people were absent from the country justifiably, as foreign minister, but I didn't see it until an elementary disaster occurred in Oras, I saw Mr. Damir Ljubić in Oras with the people. I don't think that's right. So we had to have you completely mobile already, the 14th session of Parliament, already 15. So, the 15th thing started with Maglaj because Maglai was submerged in the night between 14 and 15 and later things are heading north, and they're headed for Savi. I'm not that, and I'm sorry it's like that, so I'm disappointed about that fact. And I don't think you've rightly responded to the challenges of time and the problems that have arisen before us. That's my grade, don't be mad at me for saying this, I'd like you to deny me, but I'm throwing myself out and now I'm saying what I really mean. I know that entity prime ministers are prime ministers who have a lot more jurisdiction in these things, but this is the Council and we passed the 2008 Framework Law on the Rescue and Prevention of Essential Accidents. I suppose why the Council of Ministers did not declare a day of mourning in BiH, but I, I guess why, we, it's obvious that there was no agreement within the Council of Ministers, but I liked to see you on television that night and say – there is no agreement, I, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, think that the state should declare the day of mourning. If you'd done it, I'd have said, "Well done, hat down." I know and I suppose why there was no possibility of declaring a state of emergency throughout BiH, a state of natural disaster, a natural disaster, the law defines it as a state of natural disaster. But I liked to hear you say it – I think it is, but there is no... I didn't hear that. I think the Council of Ministers in this situation has been in an indifferent position, a deadened action by the Council of Ministers, and given an emphasis on other levels of government in BiH. It's unacceptable and I see it as an inadmissible politicisation of this situation that we have in BiH. But, unfortunately, what happened to us now is to see what we need to do in BiH. I ask you, therefore, and I think that everything, we today cannot count all of our conclusions on what the Council of Ministers should do and what Parliament should do. There's a lot to be done. First of all, there must be still emergency measures, several dozen or hundreds of people outside Zenica in Kolići are on the mountain, under tents, from Šerić they cannot approach Zenica, the machines break through to them, the Iron Field, the middle part of the village is completely gone, several thousand people are in collective centres, so emergency measures still have to be taken. The hygienic-37 epidemiological situation that was being talked about, so that's a special story. I think a whole set of measures should start from here, along with the entity prime ministers, along with those in charge, so this is our problem now and we should all be involved, both state and entity, all levels of government in BiH, but to know that it's from one place and we're going to do business. We are getting information, so it's called the report on the situation in BiH, supplemented, delivered by the Ministry of Security. Well, people, did you see that there's no number of dead here at all, that the dead are not mentioned at all, so that's the first consequence, the first thing you see is how many people have been killed in life, here in this information none, so there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, then we're not talking, we're not talking any further. Other measures are measures, so this country will have to do everything in its power to bring BiH citizens, so other than human lives, they have gone unfortunately, everything else back to its original state. That's what the state will have to do, people will have to help fix their houses, set up apartments and build houses again, those, and there's a lot of them that have to be built. And it's possible to do that if we're smart and we know how to respond to this situation. And how? Look, I don't know how much money we're going to need, I might be saying some things now that I'm going to say by heart, but I've been looking at the budgets of the entity, the cantonal, the state budget, there's a lot of items that point the funds to certain needs, so there's a lot of items. If we were to reroute it, and this is now the most pressing thing, in two years we can find half a billion marks on that basis, only from our own resources. We have 650,000 employees in BiH, if we all give one salary per year, per year, that's half a billion, because it's an average of 800 marks, and we can get half a billion help from the EU and friendly countries, it's a billion and a half, we just need to organize ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21748	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21749	And I'm asking you, I'm finishing Mr. Chairman, I've never discussed it for 10 minutes before, my discussions have always been shorter and just let me go, this minute I won't cross, I'm only suggesting one conclusion and I think it's only at this point, at this point real. We are now starting to deal with this issue, I propose that the House of Representatives assigns the Council of Ministers to make urgent arrangements for the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to provide information, real information on the elemental but Council of Ministers, on the elemental disasters in BiH since May 2014, and to propose measures to address the consequences of these disasters. Some of these measures I have said in my discussion, you will have a stenogram today, and I think to me with this question, not just the Council of Ministers, Parliament has to deal with this together with the Council of Ministers, we need to establish policy and solve this problem. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21750	Thank you. The speaker of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21751	Thank you, President. 38 I will not return to that clarification at all, for time is spent whether I will come, I will not come, but all is, I do not blame Mr Džaferović or the rest of you, but that there is not one question left in the air. So there was a question -- why wasn't the state declared, the state of emergency caused by the floods and the rest, and by the way, there was a day of mourning, right? Specifically and correctly to answer, as a colleague, Mr Bećirović accurately quoted Article 13. The framework law, and in my report, which I filed at the outset, is also stated. We should go back to the Framework Law and the Coordination Body, which was formed in 2012, then there will be no questions, no concerns and nothing else. Each one of these articles is segmentary, doesn't lead us to it, and the least we could do is talk about the law. Therefore, why the state of emergency caused by the floods has not been declared, pursuant to Article 13 where it is prescribed to be declared and at whose request the Council of Ministers brings it. It's a simple answer. The Council of Ministers has been announced since Saturday, so from Saturday, there has never been a request for a declaration of state of emergency based on Article 13 of this Law. And there's the beginning and the end of the story. The rest didn't come, it was announced from Saturday, Friday, Saturday didn't come and the story ended. Why isn't mourning day declared? I ran it at the beginning of a session, I didn't have the agreement of the Council of Ministers and I, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, can't, no matter what I want, I can't declare it. To answer, I am, I have abstained and I have been doing it all along, you are neglecting everyone, not to say I..., but also the rest, regardless of what I have asked for this report to be shared, that the conclusions are divided, although they have been directed to all levels of government on the websites and the rest, and then it is said that the 21st session is held. The first meeting of the Council of Ministers was held on 15th, the second 16th, and it is all in the report that I submitted to you. From all this, it seems that Mr. Ljubić and I have not done our job well, so I will answer one question, I am absolutely not ashamed of being on my initiative using my connections and four planes came from Croatia and Slovenia and that we had the condition of our armed forces helicopters, I gave a statement when they asked me, I considered it amoral and immoral while everything was threatened to take the TV team and that I was flying a helicopter while on the roofs the houses were waiting for children and old women to be saved. If that's the way, but that's not my way, and I said it the other day, you can see it in 15.05. and that's where I said it – I won't let politics get in there for one second. And even though it wasn't this turning on my morale and you'd love to see me with the different officials who spent that money that we approved at night and who dragged the TV crews while the residents were waiting to evacuate and take pictures, and that's not my behavioral style. Everyone knows I've been 24, not eight hours, which I haven't, it didn't occur to me that I'm gonna get a point so you can see me or anyone else. So, I have to say in all this that my soul is calm to the end, to work 24 hours, to get in touch with all the international institutions and everything else, I've ended everything I can, but I also said in my report – I won't mention my activities or the ministers of the individual ones, because I don't want to make an EPP and everything else. Let's get back to Framework Law. Framework law, and you all run away from it, the Framework Law has laid down everything, prescribed the composition of the Coordination Body. The Council of Ministers has delivered to everyone that changes may be possible if they wish, until today no changes have been made. If you need to make irresponsible statements and bid money, I'm not your address. 29. The European Commission, World Bank and UN expert team will start to work to assess floods, the assessment will be the basis for all kinds of assistance and others. Without that assessment, we'll have nothing, we can bid, we can argue with each other, you can't find your partner here in me. I'm ready and responsible for every kind of responsibility for what I'm not, uh, and the rest of it, you'll get mine, I'll assign the secretariat to deliver you both the stenograms and the logs from all the sessions, if you need it. I thought it was authentic what I did, what I got, asked you to share, and I 39 am willing to bear the responsibility of any kind, but if you want to make me a media star, and now to take a helicopter and go around what's hard to look at, you won't find it in me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21752	Thank you. A break from one hour to three hours (15:00) was also proposed. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members, we have just enabled the quorum to continue this session. The next one for the discussion came from a distinguished MP, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21754	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, after five hours to say a few words, although here's another time for other colleagues to take part in the work. Something I'd like to say at first, that we should be more honest with each other, so when we passed this law, the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods than Natural and Other Accidents then we found it as indicative, and then one of them remembered that it was indicative, and the other immediately crossed down and there was only the Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods, and it remained so subject to stumbling and mutual misunderstanding constantly. That's why Mr. Denis Bećirović says the Council of Ministers should have made a decision to declare a natural disaster, and we are at the level of the RS, I think that the Federation has done so, too, and have done so with consultation and co-operation with the centres of civil protection, which are entity jurisdiction, and this centre that we have done 112, he should have only been involved in coordinating the activities of the institutions, and we have tried to make it a central or key institution at the Ministry of Security that should replace the entity institutions involved. We are honest and honest, and because we are such, they expect the Council of Ministers to act on it, and others expect the Council of Ministers to behave in the spirit of their responsibilities and that entity institutions will do what their task is. What I'm saying is that a group of people in France contacted me and said, one day they called me and said they had terrible problems bringing humanitarian aid to BiH. And I wanted to make sure it was true. So, when they said nothing worked, then I tried to trace it, and it doesn't say anything in these materials, because it's the materials that are said here, which are preliminary, incomplete and unofficial, then I saw that the ministry, that the Council of Ministers has made a decision to release all taxes on humanitarian shipments, that the Council of Ministers, or through the Ministry of Finance, is that the releases of payment of terminals for all humanitarian shipments, have provided free inspection supervision at all points where, through which humanitarian aid has passed. That there are open accounts in stamps and other currencies and certain banks through which financial resources will be paid. And it didn't just matter at all, and it didn't say anywhere, that the decision was made to the Directorate for indirect taxation, in co-operation with the civil protection of entities and Brcko District, donate all legally taken goods for which the need is given and to assign to civil protection. If the Council of Ministers had made a decision, what he could have done extensively, is to single out a 40-day salary for all the staff in the institutions, that means a preventive first measure, and that it was done means one whole set of decisions that were necessary to do so. Many were dissatisfied because they felt that borders should be opened. And when, and indeed, there was an indirect tax administration that created a small dose of misunderstanding, it was not well explained at public, public information means, and many thought that humanitarian aid would enter with wide open borders. You don't have to say what that would mean if we did something like that. Therefore, the simplest way is found that goods must have a specification certified by the competent humanitarian institution that sends them, to be examined by the competent persons at the border, that it is a reduction in the number of border crossings to which humanitarian aid was coming, but the du was introduced 24 hours as a permanent way of working to get help as soon as possible. Wasn't that the measure? In addition, all those mentioned here, which the Council of Ministers, set out at the 96th session of 21 and 22. What's left of this as a problem, and I think it's gonna be the hardest thing to do? The Council of Ministers formed an inter-resor working group consisting of the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Finance, Communication and Transport, the presidents of the RS and Federation Valades, the government of the Brcko District, and its task is to prepare, in co-operation with other ministries, a proposal for criteria for the distribution of assistance to BiH affected by disasters. Here, we already have announcements that significant financial assistance will move towards BiH. And here, this is a decision of 22.05, so today is the 28th day already, and apparently the Council of Ministers couldn't make a deal on the way in which the financial resources coming into the single account for these purposes would be shared. It may also be a key stumbling block. Are we going to spoil all the good impressions that we've made in the way we've solved this issue so far by arguing about what the principle is, about whether or not we're going to make a deal? Because here in the report he says that in the Federation 15 municipalities were affected by an elemental accident, and in RS 36. The question is, this is a question of variable data, I suppose it is, that we will hear more about it, but these are already the elements on which the Council of Ministers should work and that is the most important item if we will succeed in agreeing on it. Today, we only need to do what will help the population finish this first phase of defense of naked life and enter the second phase of the removal of floods and the beginning of return to homes and houses that have left. In this regard, I do not want to continue to take up time and I would like to propose three conclusions which I think represent the very essence of, and that is: In the parliamentary procedure of the Council of Ministers, the Proposed Amendments to the Budget Act for 2014, which will allow for the change of the purpose of certain budget items for 2014, which means that the funds are intended to address issues of refugees and displaced persons, as well as planned grants, for which you do not start tender procedures, to be placed in the function of easing the consequences of elemental disasters for the BiH population. So, in no way can the Council of Ministers make such a decision, Parliament must make the one who has made the budget, it must make a decision and that this situation is changing which has been set out in the budget. Secondly, to urgently request consent from Saudi Arabia, the Saudi Arabia Embassy is urgently seeking agreement to change the use of $15m donated funds rather than to help refugees and displaced persons to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters. And below three, to analyse all other budgets for 2014 that can be used for these purposes, which will not affect the normal functioning of BiH institutions. 41 So these are the means that could be obtained with priority and with them to go. It is not us, it is our obligation, and many have forgotten their part of the responsibility that the establishment of the 2015 budget will certainly reflect on the topic of rationalisation of a large number of institutions that have not justified their existence and that they will obviously have to think about it because we were unable to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21755	Thank you. Next debater, distinguished colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21756	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here we are today, so we are analysing one of the information provided by the Council of Ministers on the state of BiH with an emphasis on those areas where it was significant, i.e. the biggest natural disaster or disaster that took place about 15 days ago. Today, colleagues discussed in different ways, and through their discussions they wanted to be Bosnian-Herzegovina public with special, meaning, with an emphasis on certain groups of people, thinking about whether they were potential, potentially electoral bodies, in order to sort of show them up, they added to this electoral body here that those who take care of BiH citizens, material goods, etc. We are having this discussion today if we say that we are analysing the meaning of the report or notice to the Ministry, or the Ministerial Council on the State of BiH, it is preliminary, as it is said here and so it is, we can believe or not believe, we cannot verify it, whether so many objects are damaged or more, whether there are places, cities in the Federation and in RS, etc. We can eventually sum up one of our own, one of our own, our watching what was happening in BiH and how the BiH institutions acted. I can say, in any case, that in an adequate way, BiH citizens of all religions, all religions, all nationalities and all colors of skin that showed one great human solidarity from all over BiH and helped, responded to the meaning of helping in these endangered and injured areas in BiH no matter where they were in the RS or in the Federation, or it was in the Brcko District, it is a fact. So we were witnesses and one fact, there were debaters who talked about it, there was no existence, there was no functioning of the system, or the system in BiH when it came to whether this protection and rescue of people and goods, and that is this, this elemental disaster that they were and so it was manifested through the floods that occurred in this particular part of BiH. Which gives us the right to establish a system at all levels of government, and the Council of Ministers in its responsibilities, means within its competence to take on a co-ordination role because the law is the one that prescribed that civil protection powers are at entity levels, and we can say whether these civil protections are adequately provided in these conditions to the citizens of BiH and where they were, and unfortunately here I am saying and we have not had a small number of human victims after these floods, which does not honor all those involved in the rescue of people and goods that were in that area. No one here should debate today to get any political, political problems (?We need to be aware of the facts of what has happened to BiH, what has happened to its citizens and we need to discuss, and there have been such discussions today, what we need to do and do tomorrow, not in seven days, but tomorrow. So here today we have a lot of conclusions, a lot of initiatives, I personally won't support any of them in this way, but I'm going to give about, there have been very good suggestions, and I believe that all these initiatives and conclusions with good intentions are and they are, but if they were adopted by 42 of them all, we would certainly have confused the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers what they would have done with this, is what would have taken of this. Here my proposal will be, and it was to reroute all possible funds from the BiH institutions' budget and all possible donations, there were words here about a recent donation to me by the Chinese Government, when it comes to these agricultural machines, frisces, tractors that were to be divided through the Ministry of Displaced and Refugees and through the Ministry of Human Rights to reroute this particular... This should be supported by Parliament. But my proposal is, when it comes to these initiatives, and here is the latest, what colleague Dušanka Majkić said, that these initiatives may be one quick or short session of the Council of Ministers, that the chairman holds one session of the Council of Ministers and that he proposes measures to Parliament based on these and proposals and suggestions, because if we adopt and refuse to come, we will not come anywhere. Here, I say, each of these initiatives is certainly neat and has its place, but we have to be around, I would be much happier if we eventually brought in some master plan of what to do and in which, and what time. Here it is, let's say, my colleague Bećirović, the speaker of Parliament, has proposed certain initiatives, but I was in the conversation today urgently and urgently needed dusting there, so mosquitoes. The mosquitoes have their short life span, yeah, so if it doesn't happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow in these three days that dusting then there's no use doing it just... then it'll be three or five times up. So, exactly there are certain rules, here I am asking today, so since this is also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security, here in these conclusions, to take care of deratization and disinfection and the rest – is there in BiH a vessel, that I call it, which has the possibility of dusting, whether there are means of dusting and when it will happen? Here's what I'm curious about. Here are the members of the Council of Ministers, if it's going to happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and all, if it's not going to happen in these three days, then there's no reason why it's going to happen in 10.06. my people. We'll get sick people, and then we'll have to talk about some other stuff. So here you have to know exactly what to do today, what to do on Monday, what to do then, I don't know in seven days. I know all these jobs and these initiatives and conclusions here, I say which are well-intentioned, which are certainly encouraging, are not within the powers of the Council of Ministers, but we have here and conclusions, so what is... The Council of Ministers has also brought this meaning working group together with lower institutions of government, meaning entity and cantonal, countyal in those areas and with the authorities of Brcko District and doing these certain activities. We have already heard that there have been certain remarks, and it is true that at least that was the impression that the BiH Council of Ministers or the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers has played some subordinate role in these 15 days, and it may have been in some way that it did not bother me, but when we talk about BiH as a state, it certainly... has offered me in a conversation when the chairman said that he had secured two helicopters through his private ties, which is a fact and thank him for that, from the Republic of Croatia and two from Slovenia. It would be much happier for BiH to have the right six helicopters and possibly make it our priority, and not now, I don't know, fix some helicopters because we don't need only these helicopters in these situations because there are other crisis situations where these helicopters should be used for the needs of civil society, or the population of BiH, as in some neighbouring countries. We don't have to make too much noise here that the Council of Ministers is, and we heard, we've made some steps, we have a smooth entry of goods, means humanitarian aid that comes to certain spaces, and here we have problems, what you said, these are my knowledge from the field that people unload goods, what comes from Germany, Austria, so when they say there are pumps, there are aggregates there, and then these aggregates are put away in private houses. Here's Mr. Bećirović suggested here to examine those who, I don't know, sold goods, who eventually hid. Here's the question: what are we going to do in 15 days when we don't need these aggregates anymore, when it's normalized, when we don't need those water pumps, and they're donated by the government, where are they going to end up? Well, look, Mrs. Majkić's already got them in 43 private sectors, and now they're selling humanitarian aid in Domaljevac, believe me. Look, we can't do this as Parliament, nor can the Council of Ministers, but here's a good intention to form these groups, here's the coordinating role of all the aggregates who have come and will be in use of all the boats, not to ask if there are any boats in the Boat Doboja, is there any in Bijeljina boats, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21757	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21758	Here I am saying, even though on this topic, few of my colleagues, Džaferović, were in some way criticised by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I watched as the chairman of the BiH Presidency took a helicopter ride, whether or not it was nice, he would have been much happier if he had come to the mainland as president of Croatia Josipović, sat in the boat and President Milanović, in neighbouring Serbia, Vučić, but our chairman was on a helicopter that was much more necessary then for those who were waving from the roof of the house to that helicopter, and therefore I support the work of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Who told us he'd done a lot but in silence and in peace, we don't have to raise this to all the bells, that everyone knows we should work in silence,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21759	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21760	but to do this job of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21761	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's enough said, there's still a lot of debates, and I'm going to look to cut a little short and throw out some of the things that have been said. I essentially didn't want to say anything too much except, here's to being part of this one of our stories together how and in what way this situation that we've found ourselves in, survive and in some way to those who are the most injured in this belaja, I would call it, open a perspective for the future. Here as a member of the Islam faith, this is how I understand this problem, as a temptation for those who have suffered, and for those who have not suffered, those first to have patience in all of this trouble, to have faith in the institutions of the BiH state, and here I am one of those who did not suffer in this disaster, to be tempted to have these people who have suffered taken care of themselves, to provide them with certain means of survival, and to finally, here is the engagement in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, these people and my role see a certain perspective in the future. I think we're going at that pace today. I wouldn't criticise the Council of Ministers, I wouldn't criticise anyone who at a given moment in the way he thought, and even those who sat and thought about this, gave some of their contribution, was sad first and then watched how and in what way to help. I would first of all encourage the Council of Ministers and all those working on this, solving these problems, to endure in this fight. This will be a long period in which we will solve the consequences of this natural disaster which, here someone says 44 thousand years old, once in 1,000 years to happen and so on. It's the only way we're going to be accomplices to a joint project, which is to show what's inside what's good for us to do, here in one quality way, all that's a problem, solve it. What I wish we had here today, but here's probably because of the shortness of time and the Council of Ministers failed, that we had concrete measures, so maybe we talked about them a little bit, or we added some of those measures to some of our proposals and so on. And get on the ground right now and deal with these problems. What I'd say to the writer of this report, if it wasn't for the well-sighted state, maybe, and just because of that speed. We must not forget that this disaster is somehow made up of two very difficult problems. So, one of these are floods, and the other are these slides, so here in this state analysis or the consequences are not listed these areas around Zenica, Knights, related to the Iron Field, for Topcic Field, it seems to me up in Gradac and so on. If we were already making a report, I would install those areas in that report that we know, because these are two specificities of this problem, not to say that it's easier for any of these people to get over the situation, but we know that the slide has swallowed 50 houses, that these people have been evicted, that these people have no place to go back to their homes anymore, that we need them, but then it would come out that we have to take special care of them, so when we have a story here about the needs, then probably because we didn't put it in the report, we forgot to say that we need accommodation from the flooded areas and the rinks, but from the rinks for a long period of time. So that also requires funds, not only require gas pumps, drugs, food and everything that is mentioned here, it also requires the accommodation of these people, and here I think, I'm a couple of things here wrote to myself, there's probably a lot of it, and it also requires the means to provide textbooks to those kids who moved out to bring school year end and so on. So when we all say a few things that are interesting or recognizable on the ground where we've been or watched, we're going to end up doing a comprehensive project where we're all going to be able to sort out these problems in some way. And I have no doubt that the Council of Ministers will get involved in this story, but it has to be a little more aggressive, it has to be a little more aggressive, no matter what our legal options are. I know what the Framework Law is, the problem in BiH, and it is that in front of every law it writes indicatively, so then we don't have some possibility of solving things. But here I was looking at the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the man sits there and says, "My friend, a Šeik, sends the money, what's gone in, I want it to come out, if someone takes the dinar, bring it to me." And we have to do that, in order for Denis not to propose amendments to the Criminal Code, we have to say that too. So we have to make ourselves all responsible and in this situation recognize those who want to sew in after all. _________(?) A stick to prepare. And here's what the professor and the stick say to prepare to overcome this situation. Well, probably all these conclusions will be sublimated in some way, something duplicated needs to be agreed on. And here's the need to say, whether someone here gets angry or not, you remember that the SDA was shut down from the Council of Ministers because it stopped being a parliamentary majority because it asked for an increase in budget. I didn't bring any amendments here today, and I watched them last night. It was in this part that we talked about, how and how to strengthen the Armed Forces, how and how to strengthen the Ministry of Security and the accent was right on that part of civil protection, maybe I then suggested it, then a little bit more or was worried because we had these strong fires down there. Here's someone talking about the plane here right now, we proposed to the last budget and buy that air tractor, train helicopters. We wouldn't be, here's the black country swallowing us, if that's when we assumed in the 45 budget that something like this was going to happen. This is what I say well-meaningly, not for us, we can no longer fix it, we can now rebalance the budget because we can transfer funds from one to the other conto to solve this problem. But let it be a reminder to us, let it enter there into a stenogram, so that these future generations that come here or the policies that create the parliamentary majority do not ask the psychics to ask whether the disaster will be a thousand years old in 2014, 2015 or 2016, but to predict at least one part of the funds that will at some point be able to overcome the situation. Here I remember, so that's when we talked about helicopter repairs, buying new helicopters and other equipment to operate in these situations. I'm saying, maybe the situation that we had at the time in the territory of Herzegovina, down from the Cavalry towards Trebinj where the gorilla, where in a different way, was one elemental accident, but which took away both material goods, took away both human lives and so on. And what someone said is mandatory in this report if it is complemented and put people's lives that are lost in this disaster. Why did I say this? Here at one point Mr. Kalabić said to see what we missed, so let's fix it now, that's why I'm saying it. We had the opportunity through two budgetary frameworks to maybe plan some means to have a better quality protection system for these things, but here we are not. But my Bog, here's what happened, let's make this a sort of reminder that we're doing better in the coming period, that is, to make these cuts inside the budget so that we can respond more quality to the obligations that are ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21764	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21765	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21766	He gave up. The next is Honorable Representative Anto Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21767	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say at the outset that these catastrophic floods have shown in fact how highly integrated BiH is, how much we are all as parts and as peoples and as citizens, interdependent and how much we really need to have an effective state that will meet our needs stemming from such and similar situations. I would also like to point out that we at the SDP Club are supporting the activities of BiH institutions in the areas affected by the disaster floods in BiH, particularly in the area of saving the population and property carried out by the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security in the area of organising and coordinating international aid to eliminate the effects of the floods, particularly through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the area of co-ordination of accommodation and the care of the evacuated population that has lost their homes, in the area of preparing and coordinating activities with the international community in preparation of the international donor conference. The following period should certainly continue activities in these areas with priorities being changed from day to day, some getting important, some problems being solved, but always opening new more complex ones. We now think it is very important that in the area of removing the effects of floods and training of houses and apartments for living in accommodation and providing basic life supplies for the needs of 46 people, the activation of family economic property and economy, and the assessment of the economic damage and coordination of international donor and development aid, including faster maintenance of the international donor conference, must focus on the efforts of the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions. As for the information given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we have, of course by accepting that Information, we think it's good that you looked back on Mr. Chairman and on the context that floods may have on the overall economic social development, I know it's very difficult to do now, but we can't be blind in that all this is happening, what happened around the flood, practically determines our economic development over the next 2-3 years. And in this regard, we think that the Council of Ministers should approach the development of an action programme on economic recovery and development under these consequences of catastrophic floods. It would be good if we could do a quick strategy, but since it's the subject of mutual harmonisation of complex coordination efforts, the action plan could probably be a satisfactory solution. Otherwise, I'd like to give my own view of the economic consequences of the flood, you know that we've had a planned growth this year of about 2.6% and it started out very well in the first trimester. However, everything indicates that this growth will be canceled and that we can practically calculate, surely this year we will end up with a fall in economic activity again, i.e. by falling of gross domestic product. The consumption will fall, instead of the market will grow donations, it will hit domestic producers greatly. Public investment needs to be saved, they'll probably be the driver of some growth, because we have a lot of projects in both entities that are in the realisation phase. Private investment at best will not experience recovery. The labour market will be restructured, and the demand for work will fall. Exports will also fall after a swing in the first quarter because export production is affected by the effects of the flood. The current account deficit will increase. Public revenues will fall and the deficit will increase. We are threatened by deflation due to the decline in demand and consumption, and the denial of the population from consumption. In such conditions, imports of foreign batteries through donations, development aid and private investment are an inevitable way to address the problem of economic growth. In addition to all these emergency activities, it is necessary to ensure that the removal of the effects of the floods represents a kind of momentum for future development. That is why major political reforms are needed on the way to the EU and NATO and business environment reforms to revive the economy. We call on all political parties to show maximum readiness in this situation to implement well-known reforms in as short a time as possible. In providing assistance to the population, it is necessary to coordinate activities on the prevention of epidemiological hazards and the rapid normalisation of life in flooded areas, and in areas where many houses and economic facilities have been destroyed or damaged due to the land launched. For the population, it is particularly important to restore the family economy, agriculture, craftsmanship and others, schools, health institutions, travel communications. Population from flooded areas requires solidarity from all of us and BiH institutions and needs to explore and coordinate activities to reprogramme population loans to banks, to provide donations to the most necessary household equipment, to ensure the feeding of livestock and other needs. The medium-term plan should develop a specific action plan to combat poverty, as this castatrophic threat that the population is affected by floods without appropriate economic and social measures for a long time, so without adequate social and economic measures. We also know that the economy is affected by direct and indirect damage. Direct damages to destroyed raw materials, materials, finished products, equipment and other assets are likely to cover most of the country's insurance houses and will check the capacity of the insurance system in BiH. The action strategy should be prepared to prevent indirect damages resulting from job interruption and job loss. A particular problem is small and 47 medium-sized enterprises. How to address the situation of a small business that has entered into investment, has taken credit, and its production is threatened or key customers are affected by floods and no longer demand for its services, and credit wars towards banks are coming. We call on the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the BiH-level agencies to take a focus on emergency measures for the resolution of small and medium-sized enterprises, export and other enterprises and their early business activation. In addition to existing sources of development aid with the activation of development and business banks, work to secure additional sources for restructuring and resolution of companies under concession conditions, interest 0%. The public sector is disastrously affected by direct and indirect flood damage. Direct damages include damage to public infrastructure and public facilities and the involvement of budgetary and other sources for the rescue and removal of the consequences of floods are imminent. Given the new needs and expected disturbances in the inflow of public income and at the level of BiH institutions, we are proposing to actually approach the first step in restructuring expenditure in the framework of the BiH institutions' budget, and in the second step in amending and supplementing the budget as many colleagues have already proposed. It is very important for BiH to ensure and provide new content of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund for the deeply impaired stability of public finances. Finally, I would like to suggest that a really effective way to control the collection and use of donor funds is developed within the Council of Ministers so that we can have current, or reliable information at all times on how much assistance from this base is collected and how it is spent. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21768	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21769	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Today, there have been a lot of speeches and the consequences of the catastrophic floods in BiH, and I would only like two things that are somehow attached to what has been said so far. In fact, from the Republic of Serbia, the main focus was on the town of Sabcu and the Termo power plant Obrenovac. There, if you didn't know, Kolubara's surface spear submerged, which means now it's a matter of when it will re-work and the Republic of Serbia imports current electricity. An even greater cataclysmic threat threatened the Tuzlan region. There's a dam on Lake Blue, which was originally designed in 2.5 m of overflow, and then reinforced by 3.5, then the designer didn't guarantee that the dam would hold, in the end it was at an overrun of 3,42 m. Now you can imagine what would happen, God Bog, if there was a crash of this facility. However, it may have gone a little undetected, and I want to repeat that even in our canton, there has been a huge damage in the Kreka Mine, where a surface spear is also flooded and it is currently necessary to get high capacity pumps, or if it is not purchased, it is like a quarter of Jablani Lake, it will not be able to pump in the next 5 to 6 months. This is the introduction of what is direct, what are indirect damages that we will face. Direct damage will be seen to the extent and we will receive assistance from donor funds from credit lines or budget lines, emergency, international organisations. However, if this is a repeat of what happened after the war, if all the help that comes is donor assistance that will come, make some effect, and 48 do not leave any longer value, I fear that indirect damage may also exceed direct damage. On the concrete example of Mine Creek, the scenario is like this, direct damage is about 10 million, indirect damage if the pumps I'm talking about are obtained are 20 - 25 million. During this period 3,200 workers will not be able to receive the usual salary, there will be a threat to the Health Fund and the dangerous spiral that we will feel both in the short and long term will begin. What I'm saying is, measures to remove economic consequences in BiH are urgent measures. An entrepreneur who had export production, and only in our canton is about 100, who are flooded, who have certain damages, needs a gesture that is not left alone. Otherwise, that spiral starts, he fires workers, he has loans that he doesn't pay back, the workers have loans that don't pay back, and we simply come into a position to put more and more companies into dependent on one-time donations. I agree with Professor Domazet, except I have concrete suggestions. Especially sensitive are those who can very easily decide to get out of business. So one of my friends had a fire in Tesla a year ago, waiting for damages from an insurance company for almost a year. In that period he had to fulfill his obligations, his contracts. There are a lot of such companies in our canton, and I think we should find ways: one – that through credit-guarantee funds, through what Professor Domazet said, we should help these companies, we should appeal to banks to extend loans they will not otherwise receive, so I think that this could be a reasonable proposal and we should appeal that in this restructuring and change of funds, public funds, we do not take the money that is intended for entrepreneurship. Not to take money from the Development Fund now, not to take money from the Development Bank, not to take money from... because we need to renovate some houses. Because in that case, we can cut a branch that should objectively pull out in the medium term and in the long term this situation. I'm glad that right now, here at the end of my presentation, there are both the foreign minister and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I think we need to figure out a way for both the donor conference and all the contacts that we have with the international factors to contain this component of economic rapid recovery. If I don't come in now, I'm going to give you a concrete example. The USAID has frozen all its activities, all the projects it has frozen and said all the money we are focusing on removing the effects of the flood. There has also frozen some of the projects of support for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, we have received information from another international development agency that they can increase existing projects, and there are guidelines that help the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, if they are to be followed and I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, who in some way coordinates these activities with them, should they be asked to do so. So they can, without complicated procedures, development aid procedures are complicated, take six months, we need an emergency measure. I'm going to end up with a comparison, five billion dollars was almost aid via the World Bank, and we know exactly how much of that money went into the economic recovery of the state, almost nothing. At the same time, the example of Western Europe's recovery through Marshall's plan went quite the opposite, first giving help to raise the economy, and then, among other things, raised what was destroyed in the floods. So, to finish, I think you should think about a model that would respect the need to form a Fund for Economic Reconstruction, that's a parion of money, that's not donor money, right, damage compensation should come from insurance companies. I agree with Mr. Tomić, as far as I've asked, 90% of it is not guaranteed, even the public, state-owned enterprises have not fully secured all the assets they have. And it would be good for you to do this seriously, seriously, because I think it's an emergency, rapid aid that, if it doesn't happen in the next month, two, three, can lead to an additional in this time very problematic job loss in export-oriented factories. If 100 are in Tuzla Canton 49, in this northern part of BiH, there are certainly hundreds of companies waiting to see if they have any interest in keeping their jobs and continuing production, among other things creating preconditions for economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21770	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21771	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Here, today there is a very serious debate on very serious issues and topics, and it is therefore also good that in this way it is dedicated with small exceptions which have been through replicas and which were not here to be mentioned, but first of all BiH has faced in 50 municipalities or cities with flood disaster and ice-skating, about 35 are located in RS, 15 at Federation level and one, one and Brcko District. First of all, the irreparable loss is the loss of lives and we, today we all have compassion for these families, that's what we can't bring back, but we can give our hand and express our condolences for what we did today. But you need to get your head up to save what can be saved further. First of all, the issue needs to be resolved in flooded areas that are still underwater, for which it will take a long time, what Mr. Kušljugić is talking about, how many months it takes for certain water to be exhausted from certain facilities without speaking in Bijeljina and in Posavina in general, where a village still cannot be reached. Imagine how long it will take and not to talk about the material damages that are huge. They're huge above all that, not for this year that there won't be crops and what won't be, but the question is, what's going to happen to the land that's drawn the mud and the sand and how to even clean it up, how dangerous it is, how harmful it is. But now we need you, Mr. Bevanda, and everyone in BiH at all, first priority not to get infected, to do everything we can to make the animals die as soon as possible, to carry out disinfection, disinfection and deratization of the terrain so that the problem doesn't get to us, if we get caught, then it's further problems. For these reasons, that's what shouldn't be delayed, which must be solved immediately, and then we'll move towards restoration and development in the way we're here and it's hard now, each of us would have a few solutions and say one way or another. Any one of us can... why didn't you do this, you needed this. And I don't think it's time to say it today, all of you who've been in certain functions, time will show, or reports of how well you've done it in a quality and efficient way. When we have complete analysis, then we'll be able to give one general assessment, by saying that I would never say every honor you've all been good at, and so on and so forth, we say, I've often talked about the Armed Forces and say that they're big and big to us, because all I know is that they can serve us for these things, and they can't serve us for the defense of some kind. But that's why they need to be made very effective so that they can be the most trained and equipped, in a quality way that they can react in floods, earthquakes, snows and so forth. the weather and all the other opportunities and that where they should go to represent BiH in the best light, that that's what they are, and not to happen to us, I was just asking the service people where you tanked the fuel, those who were saving in Bijeljina, said when we were gone, they could be in the air for 3 hours and then they had to go to Tuzlo. And imagine that these things are predicted and said in each of these barracks there will be a certain reserve of kerosene, a certain reserve of boats and so forth. That we can react, because the period here, says Doboj, a boy recorded it, posted it on youtube, in six minutes, there was chaos. Well, it wasn't anyone who could solve it in six minutes to save something from happening, but it's different when it's all in the field together. 50 For these reasons all who have made their contribution to both institutions and individuals, it was also a obligation, and each of us has what he himself has done for himself, and I think it would be a shame that we here now say how much anyone has taken away, how much help it is, how much I don't think we should talk about it, let each one bear on his conscience what he has done. The citizens showed the right face, they didn't look, they ran for help, and they weren't rarely cops and soldiers who, whose houses were flooded that they were in saving others, and they should be appreciated. That's what you need anyway. I'm not ready to speak at all today, these are good, these are not good, but there is, when a full report is made, it is certain that we will have an observation, I particularly have an objection to the public service BHT which, I must say, did not turn on in time, did not give information in the most qualitative and efficient way, unlike the RTVRS who had a program for almost 24 hours, informed, gave suggestions, encouraged people. I must say that some private media in Serbia have fully placed themselves in the service of the people, which is not cases in our premises. This is a situation where we needed to be even more unique and that the damage would be as little as possible. Now, what do we do to get out of this situation more capable, stronger, of getting some lessons out of this situation? Once in the former systems, there was a book of duty and there were instructions in the event of a fire opening page 6, on page 6, you shut down the power in that place and that place, I don't know you call this, you turn on the system, and that must exist in Civil Protection in all institutions and institutions. What was Mirza talking about? Since the flood, even 10% of people haven't secured it. And it's especially flood insurance, when they're insured, then they give you some additional flood number so that the economy won't get anything from it, and the question is, have all the companies secured their basic assets? And that's an additional question. And that should be taken into account, so to say, you know, gentlemen can't start doing what you won't do to secure all your assets, thus strengthening the insurance companies, and by doing so, you'll be able to charge in such situations and damages. How do we get the money? In the end, I think there were a lot of conclusions here and it's hard to sublime them all at all, but maybe it's best to set up a commission or a group that will make those conclusions, or it'll be enough for the Council of Ministers because people were here today, mostly, to serve them with a plan that they're going to make. But the money has, we must now say there is not a single grenade that is not necessary for BiH, immediately break up with the execution of these grenades and those non-sustainable assets to focus on the most needed things, which is here to prevent these accidents and the disaster that has happened to us. Here I was talking to only one refugee and displaced person, and he was wondering if there were any possibilities, any means. There are 36m euros in the account, these truths are intended for certain other purposes, but I personally think the Council of Ministers can say, you know, and the authorities to target those funds for other things. What this is, I think, is that Mrs. Majkić suggested some 15, I'm not sure if it's 15 enough, maybe think about it, and maybe more of it to isolate those funds, so that we can, because at this point, we need it most, after all these recoverys that I've been talking about, to start the economy. If we don't start the economy for nothing, we'll make houses for people, all that, damages and so on, but then our funds will be empty, we'll be in a position to have nothing to pay for neither pensions nor pensions. I will, in the end, just say that what was done at BiH level, we could have been even more unique in terms, not waiting for where who was wrong and calling it. We have a case that in Serbia, when the Serbian government makes a decision, we all support it, and when the same decision is made by the Republika Srpska government, we criticise it. So we have some different criteria to evaluate what's good and what's not. And in the end, I'm proposing one conclusion that I'm going to read right now. 51 I suggest that in accordance with Article 17. The Council of Ministers' Budget Law decides to restructure expenditures within the total amount of the approved budget in all institutions, with about 75 of them aimed at the recovery of the damages caused by the floods and slides at BiH level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21772	Thank you. Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21773	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I now considered the discussion to be one, let's say, (?) It's more normal. Behold, the Nightingale said a straighter plane,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21775	I didn't say... the other one threw it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21776	And the other one threw it away, well-Slavuj. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21777	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21778	Sure, sure, sure. Anyway, I thank those who defended me, some who praised me, and I pray they don't do it anymore. _________(?) Neither. Yes, and if they were to praise me or defend me, I'd ask, I'd be moved by the discussion of the Nightingale that they lied that I had fled abroad, and the man was defending me, and now I'm reading, whether, Slavuj that you didn't, that I was there. I thank the Šefik, if, who commended me and said that objectively I had reason to be away, it would be better if you hadn't praised me like that, because it looks like this time and the country and the situation in which he thinks nothing, say anything, do anything, just so I might have a chance for you to work for people. I'm obliged to tell you a few things from the domain of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially from the domain of what's ahead of us, and I think it's important that this House be acquainted with 52 teams. This is an unforeseen situation that really no one could have predicted, and it's not at all controversial. On 14 May, I was in Warsaw at the EBRD Conference for Reconstruction and Development where we prepared a presentation of BiH's business opportunities with Bosnian Herzegovina entrepreneurs and with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and that day is practical, we presented it, but we spent the rest of the day in talks with the presidents of international financial institutions to help overcome what was already seen that day. That day, on the first day that it happened, I asked my colleague Vesna Pusić, who is indeed the first colleague of the foreign minister of a country to call me next to those I called, who called to ask me what we could help you with. These are things you don't forget. Since similar things were happening in Serbia at the same time, I called my colleague Ivica Dačić to tell him, I know what's with you, but here's what I want you to know that we have the same problem and that we don't have that problem, and I would call you to ask you what we can help you with. Before the Council of Ministers made the decision, which you know we immediately made, on the approval of 200,000 marks for the purpose of requesting the Operational Centre and Deputy Minister of Security Mr. Čavar, I was practically asking for something that was on the verge of legality from Minister Pusić to send helicopters and mountain rescue services without asking them in writing, because it was not yet the appropriate decision of the Council of Ministers, technically it could not be made. And today I could answer here because I did something that might be a question or if I had jurisdiction over it. What really encouraged me was that, among other things, my colleague Bosić said that we should stop philosophizing more about jurisdiction and see how from this ping-pong state in which no one is in charge except that he is competent to explain that he is not competent and in this situation the most brutal and tragic one was seen. I would also like to express my great gratitude here from the parliamentary speaker to the vast number of countries, foreign ministers, ambassadors, representatives of the international financial institutions that have been with us and who have helped us since the first moment we asked for it, and even when we did not ask for it because it did not know who was in charge of asking and we gave them the information we had. I am pleased to Džaferović that you commended Defence Minister for being in a helicopter with a member of the presidency, but I think that really the Ministry of Defence should really get all the praises of this Parliament for showing a high degree of responsibility as a whole. I think it's also a good thing that the Operations Center, which in this mess, has passed one general exam and that should be said, along with all the gaps that have been made. People may one day, when history is written, remember what's happened in the last 20 days, but in the time that's ahead of us people won't ask us so much what's happened or will ask us a lot of questions about what you're doing right now, how quickly they're going to ask us what you've really done, and now there's a huge test ahead of us. I'm saying this because we have a lot of numbers right now, the largest number of people here is a witness to what happened on the ground, and we all have some personal impressions, we have some evaluations and grades. There are some institutions that have made very precise assessments. However, the metric assessment and evaluation will be completed most likely on 16 and 17.06. Namely, the EU, the World Bank and the UNDP have agreed that according to the methodology they recognise, the institutions will make an assessment and assessment of the damage in BiH and that, they say, will be a preliminary assessment of the damage. In other words, it will be an evaluation that will most likely be presented on 18, and why I speak 18, because I will suggest a conclusion when we sit down again as Parliament to come out with some information. In fact, what is evident, and we have passed on this information to the competent institutions at entity levels and local levels that participate, that the first thing that will be defined by this methodology, which is the basic needs of people, and then the job with two aspects, the job that is lost, the jobs that have disappeared, and that in the domain of the real sector plus 53 agriculture separately. Then transport, then housing, water supply, and we will get their priority assessment in that report. I would especially like to say here that the EU has been completely with us since the first day. I want to say very clearly here that, I do not know whether knowingly or unconsciously or out of ignorance, I want to believe that it has been out of ignorance, that there has been an illusion that the EU has different arches towards BiH and our eastern neighbour. The fact is that Serbia as a candidate has access to the Solidarity Fund. The fact is, we don't have access to the Solidarity Fund. However, it is also a fact that in the talks held by the president with the entity prime ministers and Commissioner Georgijev and that I had with her and the talks afterwards, it is very clear and precise that the EU will show full solidarity to the entire region, especially Croatia, and in its capacity, as much as it is damaged, but that it will also show solidarity to BiH and Serbia, regardless of how much we are a candidate and why, depending on how much damage is estimated and estimated to have been done. So we are not interested in the EU Solidarity Fund, we are interested in EU solidarity and we have received full EU assurances that the EU will be solidarity with BiH, and the Solidarity Fund is one of the elements from which it can be done. We have already opened the process in the talks with them to restructure and replan the funds that have already been set up for other purposes and to prepare it for a donor conference, to make the matter much clearer. However, what I would like is for this Parliament to be more actively involved, which is that we try to create some kind of atmosphere of trust. How is trust created? In this country there were so many donations after the war, during the war, that man no longer trusts anyone alive. And when we begin to explain to each other how we shouldn't believe what's going to come together to be well distributed, then believe that we're not helping anyone, no one. This country has received two very clear messages in the last four months. One message in February from the citizens that they want this country to change, and it seems that, as Bog says, someone tells us nature, on May 14th has sent us a message again that we have to change. Because these are two huge messages about the need for change. What we saw in the field, which is that people have shown an incomparably higher degree of solidarity and the need to work together without any institutions, without any question who is responsible for anything. You know very well how Tuzla, Bijeljina, Doboj and Oresje collaborated, as if they had a government and four municipalities together. Teshanj and Doboj, Gradac and Shamac, I'm just stating some examples, Bihać and Prijedor, I know I'm doing injustice to many others who have worked very hard together. What has this Parliament, since there has been a question here, of what will the Council of Ministers and Parliament do? It is a direct question of a respected colleague, Džaferović. So, what can Parliament do? And I'll tell you what the Council of Ministers needs to do. Since you asked, and you would never answer the question of what Parliament should do if I wasn't asked. I think Parliament should do everything in these few days to adopt laws on money laundering and criminal law that are a condition for what is called MONEYVAL. Because if in five days, we get hit by what we're threatened with, and we're a country that's treated as a black hole at the point of money laundering, then Parliament has the opportunity to do it. Parliament has the opportunity to make two readings today, to sit down again tomorrow and to do the Law on Money Laundering and Criminal Law and to forward it to the House of Peoples and the House of Peoples, confirm the Excise Act, because otherwise two tranches of the IMF's stand will practically go down the water flood. So, what can Parliament do? Parliament can also help us, the Council of Ministers has already made a decision this morning, chairing it has not spoken in the first address, to help us with what you think we should do and to give us the obligation to restructure the costs and to say what are more ways to get more resources to say at the donor conference here we have done this and to do it all by 18 or 19. Which means it would be good for us to go out with you, obliging us to give you information and 54 to sit on this topic right behind 18, where we'll know a lot more about it then. But until then, what else can Parliament do? Either to form a working group of one parliamentarian or to assign the Council of Ministers, but here we will have other obligations..., perhaps Parliament, a new form of work, to Parliament to create a working group on the Law on Flood Management at BiH level. And you know why, and you know why I'm telling you this? Because it is very clear to us, do not count on a serious donor conference without such a law. And you know why? Because there is a very clear European calculated mathematics that one euro invested in what is the subject of this law, that you return 4 to 7 euros of damage that will not happen to you. Those who, as they say from small crafts to professors, know there's no legal job in which a return on investment is 700% in five years unless you bought pictures of some sucker who's going to end up in Pikaso, and that's why it takes more than five years. So, Anto's laughing at me, which means, with one broad smile, which means he knows how much I'm right. So, it's not just that this law is going to make us, because in November, people said, this is what a woman who's five years commissioner for this kind of thing in the EU says -- if this rain is a few times smaller in six months, you're going to be even worse than you are now, because they've been destroyed by a lot of dikes and whatnot, not to mention. What else can we get from Parliament, and what can Parliament propose today, which is something called a return of trust? The donor conference will be held and as much as it is believed that we have learned from this, so much we can count on greater assistance from the international community. The most important thing here is to restore the trust of the people, the citizens of this country, that the money that will be collected, that will be spent transparently and that there will be full control over it, not only of the governments or Council of Ministers, not of entity governments, but of this Parliament and of the international community. Why not invite people who create the public in this country, it's the NGO, the academic community, the media? Because be assured that the international community, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and the UNDP will have their own monitoring mechanisms. But they'll take care of the money they collect. Why not launch an initiative from this Parliament to be made together with representatives of the international community and donors, donors, to create a special mechanism of supervision of the collection and spending of funds only for the May 2014 floods? I am running to you as an obligation that Parliament could give to the Council of Ministers and send a message to the public where we're actually going. I'm not going to talk specifically about the activities of the Foreign Ministry because they, from day one, we've formed the Crisis Headquarters, we've been alarming and I've talked and I've spoken to them personally, and I've had practical communication with all the friends this country has, which can help us with something at the level of foreign ministers and the heads of international financial institutions and we have a really big and positive echo. This positive echo is primarily the result of two things. First because people see that this is a huge disaster and an accident that has hit us. And secondly, because they believe that the solidarity shown by people on the ground, the solidarity shown by local communities, that it will make all of us together show more solidarity, more understanding and unite. I'm not the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolija, but if by any chance Mongolija had attacked us, we'd probably be able to unite here. We'd have a little trouble being attacked by someone closer, but thank Bog that's not gonna happen, this is all a thought experiment of political nature. But if Mongolija attacked us, we would surely unite. Because thank Bog Mongolija doesn't have those plans, we're left to be united by something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21780	Dear Ministers, I am warned by fellow MPs on time. I don't have an hour in front of me, so I asked my deputy to stop time, and he hasn't warned me yet. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21781	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21782	Well, Šefik, you know what, I gotta get away with it somehow, get out of what you've been praising me for. You know, from what you've praised me I wanted to sort of explain, don't please thank me because I haven't been away from this country, Šefik, but I've been in this country all the time and the first day when I, this was happening, I've just been doing everything that's my job to get help here as soon as possible. And I could tell you about what I did to the Iron Field or the Sherics what to do on the road breach there, because I was there. And I could tell you about how I'm not in charge of calling the director of the Federation Highway, tell him if you have any people to go there, that instead of on the highway to work on a road breach in the Iron Field. I'm not in charge of that, but I did it, and I believe that when each of us does what he has to do, he'll be easily forgiven for not being in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21783	Thank you. So, with regard to these instructions that Parliament should do, I expect the Council of Ministers to adopt the aforementioned laws and proposals unanimously and to refer them to us here in the form of emergency procedures. And as for these discussions so far, and commendation to ministers and ministries, I feel an overwhelming need to commend the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Human Rights and Refugees. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21784	Well, you see, I think the situation is too serious for us to allow ourselves any luxury in discussions, any approximations, and make any detours of what we're supposed to do here today. And I wouldn't have taken a word of it if it hadn't been for the foreign minister's statements, Mr Lagumdžija. He referred several times to my exposure, I don't know why. I, Mr. Lagumdžija, when I'm just saying the facts and you haven't disproved in your presentation any of the facts that I've made in my presentation. And it's fair for me to say what I saw happening those days. I saw it that way, and I say it like that, I didn't praise anyone or attack anyone, as who feels it's his problem now. I was just stating the facts. And it's even fair for me to give the facts, which means when I criticize you and when I criticize you, and the reasons for that, of course, there's too much, then you realize that I'm also doing it on the basis of arguments and on the basis of facts. That's one thing, then. And secondly, you misunderstood that I asked you what to do to Parliament. I did not ask the Council of Ministers what to do with Parliament, I asked the Council of Ministers to consider the situation and to inform us here with one information and with a programme of measures. And from what we say here, of course you'll take a stenogram so you'll probably take some of that, which is why I've also talked about these concrete solutions. Therefore, I would ask, therefore, that this debate is going towards a goal, Parliament itself will decide what it will do. I think neither we, therefore our leadership of Parliament nor all of us, were here, so he was not at the height of the task. There had to be an extraordinary session of Parliament here, I mean there's no dilemma, because the situation is like this, this of 56 dejton and here, this is a disaster, I mean, so, and we're acting the way we've been acting. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21785	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21786	What would you say, dear colleague Džaferović, I had no intention of going out, but when you are called directly then feel the need to explain some things. In connection with this latest finding, I will say something, but before I realize that, as counterpart Šefik said, the foreign minister did not deny any of what he said, I am pleased that after the foreign minister's presentation, Džaferović did not deny any of the facts spoken of by the foreign minister. And when it comes to this matter of what the leadership of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should have done, as counterpart Džaferović reiterated this thesis twice today at the session, I must say the following. So, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has two equal homes – the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, completely two equal homes. When it comes to the House of Representatives on my request, the idea was initiated that in the first week of this natural accident we would call the College together with only one task to see how and how to organise the first next session of the House of Representatives and this would be the main point of the agenda. I must say, when I sent that memo, some attacked me, perhaps with the right, and said what you are now calling the House session in this first week when it floods, it is now most likely that all authorities and MPs are on the ground and that it helps everyone in a way that can help. Given this attitude that we are late for something with the House session, I take it as, in some way, praise, and defence, and the best answer to my colleague, Džaferović, those critics, which is why we asked that in the first week we actually agree on how and how to do it. So in this sense, I thank my colleague Džaferović, who has just given these critics the best answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21787	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21788	Mr Lagumdžija mentioned one significant word that we often mention but cannot build – it is trust. Mr Lagumdžija, I want to tell you that in this House of Parliamentary Assembly, your political party is often the reason that this trust is not there. The SDP is the political party that has proposed the most unconstitutional laws and one of the members of the College is, who comes from your party, the man who has proposed the most unconstitutional laws. Do you think that trust among the nations in this country is achieved in this way or do you think that we can reach our goal with long exhaustive conversations and explanations? I'll give you two examples that make it very clear, and you mentioned them. The first one is related to the Money Laundering Act and the financing of terrorist activities. When it first came to parliamentary procedure, the law came with 9 pages of objections and amendments coming from the RS MUP. The Ministry of Security didn't accept any at that time. And since we don't have the opportunity to influence 57 of the phenomena that are happening in our country, then we also don't have the right to choose whether or not to vote for it. And as you know, we didn't vote. Meanwhile, here I am now taking the opportunity to thank the assistant minister of security, a large number of conversations were conducted, communication. Yesterday, the last amendment and the last sentence were completed and all the conditions for BiH to receive the Money Laundering and Financing Act were met. It's a good example of how you can work in this country. Another example you also mentioned, it's a criminal law. He won't be adopted today. So, all that RS has suggested we haven't had a chance to say or to adopt it. There will be no law that we do not participate in and that does not respect everything we say, however high-quality people who participate in the team, who could participate in these discussions. There are no decisions that only one party can make. And finally something to praise the Department of Defense. We've discussed the Ministry of Defense here very often. You've given your commendation and your attitude, but I just want to remind you that the helicopter squadron numbers 40 helicopters standing on the ground. On several occasions we searched, I am the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21789	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21790	Just for a second, we asked that money be given to repair a number of helicopters so that he could participate in helping the local population at the time of the accident. We've come to the point that one of the officers said - we're short a handful of wrists, here's Mr. Belkić not to let me not tell the truth. So, please, we don't need to borrow from anyone the helicopters, we need the money that the Council of Ministers has set aside for that purpose, to fix the helicopters and take care of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21791	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21792	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This moment of our minister's appearance has offered to report yet, and so far I've kept silent, although you know very well that I belong to a world that listens to see, although, of course, many of you don't understand, let me not be angry at that. First of all, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm a little older,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21793	Excuse me, I'd like to ask my fellow MPs not to talk in benches so we can hear a colleague discussing right now. Thank you very much. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21794	One decade or so and a little bit more, so I remember a lot more. The tragedy experienced by my Bosnian Herzegian people is not even the first, and what fate this earth is, will not be the last, unfortunately. But just one fact, Mr. Lagumdžija, let me tell you -- you've gotten a little too far in your commanding way, as you usually do with SDPs. You can't order, even directly to this House. He can be your minister, but not the other way around, please. And don't drag what you want us to do, we understand that, but we won't. But maybe he can do it in this situation. A country where it has already been declared almost formally, and it will be all afraid and worse when everything is finally gathered, that practically a third of BiH's population has suffered from this terrible cataclysm that we have experienced, one third of our population. In any normal state, an emergency would be automatically declared immediately. And in that case, you know how the system works. Well, dear gentlemen, I apologize to my friend Bećirović,...to his conclusions, I think 12, 13 would make them, all that Mr Bećirović would do nicely, and all the rest of you who have proposed, just remember the state's right to do so. But we're forgetting it again and we're proposing things that are impossible to achieve in this situation. Because if it were possible today, there would be a state of emergency and there's no telling who's running the country. The Apropo Donor Conference and the proposal Mr. Minister made is all right, but it's back to this first point that I'm talking about – countries are negotiating with countries, countries are not talking with entities, regions, cities, but with countries. As long as we don't put it as the cornerstone of getting out of this horror that we've fallen into, and it still doesn't see the end of the gentlemen, we're still going to add up, and we're going to regret it, I'm sorry to say it. And so please, I respect all the things you said,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21795	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21796	Excuse me, for a second, you know that I rarely report, I guess sometimes as the oldest MP, I can extend a little bit, please just one thing – this is our people, if you don't accept it, I still claim that we are the People's MPs, let's listen to the people. But I can only tell you the epithets that give Bosnian herbic policies on all the media are not for this House. As an old man, I wouldn't say them in my sleep. Think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21797	Thank you. The Honorable Minister, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, I assume that's the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21798	Well, naturally, I want to thank everyone who discussed it and first I want to thank Mr. Bašić, and I'm really glad that he agrees that we all need to be together and that the state should actively engage in direct negotiations with all the international factors complete. But 59 my appeal is, and once again I repeat the appeal, the plea, Bog forbid that the order, the appeal to Parliament, is to help us get as many institutions as possible of this country involved in controlling what will be done. First of all, I think of Parliament and I think that Parliament calls and extends the cross-section of this society – and NGOs, and the media, and the academic community, to do something, to show that we are really part of a society that will monitor what we as a state negotiate with others. So, I totally agree with Mr. Bašić about it. Otherwise, Mrs. Majkić, I'm sorry there are so many helicopters on the ground. Believe me, I still have a problem with seeing what I'm going to do with, we've got a lot of helicopters and in Turkey, bought almost 20 years ago, I don't know if you counted on them. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, that's right. So they couldn't come here, let alone take off, and that's the things we inherited. And I have to admit to you that, is this SDP conviction of yours, I really thank you very much for that. Indeed, it is the first honest compliment I received today and thank you for it. And, Mr. Džaferović, I didn't turn off the flow as you said, because I guess the flood is somehow a nearer word to you, I just referred to your question, quote – what does the Council of Ministers and Parliament have to do? I kind of took it as an open invitation to say what I think it's supposed to do, not thinking of ordering anyone who's Parliament. And my second remark, Mr. Džaferović, was, directly referring to the quote, what you said you were justifying the foreign minister that he was out there during these events, so it's just not true. So it's just not true. I was, as I said, the first day the rain started to rain in Warsaw, and that's all, and in the meantime I canceled two interstate visits, led by two delegations of industry that we were supposed to make other countries in economic diplomacy, because I thought this was more important, and I canceled it all. And, finally, Mr. Ljubić, since you recommended that we agree as Council of Ministers, I thank you for the excellent idea, but there is a better idea, faster, that you do both reading today, so perhaps one day open an hour for the amendment procedure and then adopt this law, Criminal Law, because, although it is told here by Mrs. Majkić that he will not be adopted. I don't know if you're aware of where we're going with the non-compliance of that law. And the fact that the 9 pages of the amendment came from the RS MUP is a fact...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21800	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21801	Well, you see, interesting and adopted all. So you see, do you not see what you have said now, and all of you are adopted?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21802	That's right. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21803	Well, no, it's okay, but be careful, it's not about that, so if you think we think all these amendments are geniuses. We just wanted...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21804	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21805	No, we don't, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21806	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21807	But we wanted to somehow come up with a compromise, a dialogue, and we realized that it was a much bigger problem for this country that we didn't have that law and that in 01.06 we were declared a country treated as Avganistan when it comes to money transfers. And completely irrelevant things are here that were on the dream. These three, four things of this Criminal Law are completely irrelevant in view of what's going to scare us. Thank you, Mr. Ljubić, but please, I would like to ask you to try to do two readings while the Council of Ministers performs your other tasks.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21808	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman. Very short. Even in a situation like this, we are unable to forget the greatest pain of the Bosnian Herzegovina political world, the life and the way we communicate, which is called personification and personalization. We absolutely observe everything through the first face of the one. The right to the first face of unity in this and this situation and in this country now only those unknown majority and nameless majority of citizens and citizens who have saved themselves, their lives, the lives of their neighbours, their children and all those around them. What we do and what we need to do is in the description of our jobs, ladies and gentlemen. I am really moved by the fact that the Ministers do not sleep, touched by the fact that we as Parliamentarians have been running water along with the citizens of BiH for hours. Isn't that our duty? With the privileges that we gentlemen have, we have duties, and unfortunately this country faces that period and such a problem in which such duties should be fulfilled. Well, if someone is not capable and willing to fulfill those duties, then it must not be under the first face of one and its misery to the broad social community because of hard life and hard work. If you please, BiH citizens and citizens did not deserve to have a debate here today on the problem that is bothering us all, and they are more than we are, especially those who are not yet able to bury the dead members of their families. And that I wouldn't be as pathetic as we've had the chance to listen to lately here in this Parliamentary Assembly, the distinguished 61 colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen ministers, this is our job, and we'd better be quick to accept what we know and we can do without asking for credit to anyone. The merits of the people will be given to someone else, not likely to be given to us in this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. And, Mr. Chairman, if there are any other ministers who have not been commended here kindly please tell me and we'll do it as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21810	Thank you. So, I wouldn't say that we're obliged to step on water but we're obliged not to have water where it shouldn't be, and those who have to step on it to have boots. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21811	Well, I've been thinking whether to replicate it or, and in what way, however, Mrs. Dervoz practically replicated herself by finishing her own exposure to the words that she should apply to pathetics and maybe it's best to keep it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21812	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21813	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try, so in this debate, I'm going to give some of my humble contribution to the extent that I can, of course. At the very beginning, I am truly sorry, as I believe everyone here, there is certainly no person who is not sorry for the victims, first of all human lives, and certainly also the material resources and sacrifices that people today suffer because of this consequences of the flood, and the immaterial and material damage. And with that in mind, I want to say that here today I expect, among other things, that this information that we have received so far will be accepted as preliminary, incomplete information that will certainly be further done in a way that will be useful for the institutions on the basis of knowledge from the field to intervene. It seems to me that there is a mass of things to intervene for immediately and without delay, and that is certainly an indisputable fact. And that's why there's a need, and especially when it comes to the health of these things that are happening, the simple epidemic that is possible after this flood is certainly one of those segments that is a danger to all those in the endangered areas and certainly beyond. I've spoken here on several occasions about a system that was supposed to work and didn't work. I would like to point out in particular that there are local democracies that play an important role in this entire system, and this particular event happened at the local site, and that is to say, these floods have hit the most local environments. So we should certainly look at it from the point of view of local authorities not leaving out, of course, the obligations of entities but also those that we have when it comes to the common government. There are responsibilities that we have here and that 62 can be done. With regard to us from the SDS, we have suggested conclusions, I will not read them because they are divided to you, which correspond with several conclusions that have been heard in the debate so far. Surely, there will be a need for the conclusions to be brought into line in order to achieve the best possible solution. But what I particularly want to draw from the conclusions and that, as well as my colleagues, I, as well as my colleagues, is to be able to immediately, and in as short as possible, and we have said within 15 days to the Parliamentary Assembly by emergency procedure of delivering the amendment and addition of the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions so that we can, above all, carry out those interventions that are available to us here in this Parliamentary Assembly, making sure that those projects that are currently under way, for which the contracts are signed, should certainly continue, and all those capital investments that are planned in the future should be better analysed and those funds that were planned there should be rerouted to the event that has happened to us. This unfortunate flood is really something that is the priority of all priorities. In our conclusions, among other things, there is one conclusion in which we say that the Council of Ministers should report to the Parliamentary Assembly every 60 days. I don't mind, I've also heard some suggestions that speak of it that it would be good for each session to have a point that will be current safely in the coming days, years and months, months and years. It is certainly acceptable for us SDS, and I believe that this question, which will focus itself on whether we want it or not, will be considered at each of the House of Representatives' sessions. When it comes to the duties given by the Council of Ministers and relating to the Interresor Working Group, we are simply out of need, arguing that the Council of Ministers proposed that they should be representatives of entity governments, certain resolution ministries, there also be representatives of the alliances of municipalities and cities from one entity and another. It seems to me that it would be of great benefit, because it's simply people who are directly, I'm not saying that the ones that you've suggested are not, in an opportunity, but it seems to me that they could be of great benefit because they have direct communication with local democracies and will certainly contribute to a better solution to these issues. Particular attention should be paid to each issue of trust and donation. We have a very ugly donation experience, a very ugly experience. You know that we have even formed some investigative committees here to determine where the huge donor funds that have already come to BiH have been spent. If on the basis of these facts we're going to find out, God Bog, we're going to have such a situation in the donations that are coming now and if they're being treated that way, I think we're all going to have a serious problem with, first of all, the distribution of donations. If a small mistake is now made in terms of the distribution of donations that will come to BiH, the consequences will be catastrophic. I think that, in this sense, we should certainly have, among other things, failed even here in Parliament to agree on the way our committees work, and we of the SDS think it is necessary to propose a committee of inquiry, not with the intention that the matter, simply our intention is, above all, to point to the gaps that have been made, with the intention of building a better system, to make a better solution. Because the fact is, I think that the system has shown its shortcomings in many places and a certain number of people in any case, who have shown in the system that they can meet these challenges, should be commended. Why not? I don't mean the way it was done here in Parliament, but I think in one objective way. I'm going to represent that, for example. The Department of Defense, because I've heard a few colleagues praise the Armed Forces and the Department of Defense. Yes, certainly one number of units and members of the Armed Forces should be commended, but the question is whether all resources in the area of defence have been made available to local communities and to what extent and to what extent, or whether it's just a flat-rate score because I saw the minister taking a picture with the helicopter. I'd still do a more careful analysis so I can analyze how many elders there are in the Armed Forces, how many soldiers, how many of them are even able to engage in floods, how unable to engage. I'm telling you that half the Armed Forces are unable to engage in floods, because they're not first personnel, and secondly, that's not the 63 professions, they're not the competences, they can't do it. That's why I wouldn't be so casually boasting about whether he came from my own political party or from my favorite minister so that if I pointed out him, I'd still be more professionally able to access it, so I'd reanalyze each unit individually, and, of course, I wouldn't certainly make access to my fellow Mešiću, in a way that we could say that the Armed Forces did their job, and the helicopters didn't have certain equipment. You know, the Armed Forces didn't do their job, they had to have trained helicopters. That's why there's someone who's responsible in this country, I guess why he didn't train the helicopters. And in such a way you should do such an analysis, of course in my humble opinion. I don't dispute the fact that there was solidarity, but there was no organisation. There was no organisation of local communities that were not threatened by floods to engage in floods. And that's where he set up the system, and that's where he set up the system. On what level? At all levels, it is necessary to analyse how the system functioned. And in any case, I welcome that solidarity that has been shown, but it has been shown by the citizens themselves, not organised, but they have done it themselves, they have not done it organisedly. Some are, those who are should be given a confession. At the end of the caraway, why not that little big man who was on the spot and helped people why not point him out as a person who should be represented as someone who showed, first of all, the courage and courage that in these conditions that really some cities have reached such speed that you just can't believe that at that speed a city like Doboj could be submerged, such as Bijeljina, such as Predog, such as Shadmac, such as Modrica, such as Brcko, such as the Nuts, and not pick up a row because it's simply because someone might have thought that I'd forgotten cities in the Federation like Maglaj, like, I don't know, any other city, because I'm just in that valley, it was really horrible down there. And I think the more difficult situation is going to be in the next few days than it is right now, for the simple reason that all these problems that have accumulated are just about to surface. And if we don't engage now, believe me, I don't see a organised approach here so far that at least we'll reduce the effects of the floods that have hit most of the ends in BiH. Unfortunately, we haven't learned a single lesson from some of the floods that happened in 2010 primarily in RS, let's say Bijeljina. And then we had a situation that the rash on Savi, I don't know by any miracle, survived, but it submerged almost the entire Bijeljina. After that, there was nothing expected in Bijeljina, at least according to what I could find out. And whether or not it is necessary to carry out a truly quality investigation in terms of whether projects have been done and whether that part of the consequences that was left behind in 2010 as a consequence of the Sava dikes. All of this together should really be done by those people who know this problem and not by doing it superficially, based on some of the knowledge that we have that we're not directed enough into this problem. We certainly need to see within this investigation if all people have done what they were supposed to do. If it is not that sanctions exist for them and that, when it comes to natural disasters, we shall make sure that we will very quickly, unfortunately the summer period is coming when we may have fires as an elementary disaster, so that the elemental disaster as the subject of the debate will be present in this Parliament. I will end up with the following, a model that BiH, its entities and local communities will apply to the resolution of the effects of the flood is certainly something that people who know how to solve the consequences of a natural disaster such as the flood should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21814	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21815	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Here, at the beginning of this presentation, I want, first of all, because I don't think it's too much to say, no matter how many times, I want to express my sympathy and compassion for all BiH citizens who suffer in any way because of this natural disaster. I will not engage, or I will try to resist the challenge of praising anyone and attacking anyone, except that I have a moral need, and because of only one fact, I have a moral obligation here in a special way to express my respect, gratitude and recognition to the residents, to all the inhabitants of Kakanj Municipality, led by the head of the Kakanj Municipality and the Civil Protection Community Chiefs who have assured the Joint Forces not to be found in this report by an incomplete and no report that we received from the Ministry of Security. Unfortunately, there is a consequence. Thanks to the organisation, there are still a lot less consequences, thanks to the sacrifice, but there are much smaller consequences than it would have been if the Civil Protection Directorate/Secretary Head had not responded in good time, together with all the citizens of the Kakanj Municipality. I once again show my respect and gratitude to all those who took part in this. Listen to all today's debates, I have to say that we often have a tendency, but here I didn't think that today, to discuss something which is a matter of how much we and jurisdiction, even though we, I would like our jurisdiction to be greater, wider. We have the name of the agenda item – Discussing information from the Council of Ministers on the consequences of the natural disaster in BiH. A natural disaster, in line with decisions by the competent entity bodies, was declared in the Federation of BiH and was also declared in the RS. As we heard today... The Council of Ministers did not declare a natural disaster in BiH. It's interesting that in the attack, I don't know why, I guess by defending ourselves, we're defending this or that we've ignored the fact that we have a law that's been made, passed for exactly this condition. And that law has not been implemented in any letter. But we're discussing, so we don't talk about it, we're now going to praise our party officials, we're going to praise our colleagues, we're going to praise our friends, I don't know who else, or we're going to attack those others, but we're not going to talk about not implementing the law that we've passed here. Is it, I'm sorry, but here Bog the President of the Council of Ministers and one of the Co-chairs, according to unofficial information under this law, there is a single body called the Coordination Body that operates under the conditions of natural disasters, and believe me, it has enormous powers, enormous competences. Unfortunately, there is obviously no responsibility. Today, 15 days after, here we are talking, I don't know if we can talk here about a natural disaster in BiH because it hasn't been declared, so 15 days after the natural disaster in our entities, in our municipalities, villages, cities, etc. We don't even have letters of reports from that Coordination Council. I don't know who the members of this Coordination Council are, but I do know that according to Law 9, the Council of Ministers, by 5 both entities and 2 Brcko District. I don't know how we're going to collect this expected international aid when this is the only Co-ordination Council that doesn't meet at all, in charge of such matters and only competent to propose appropriate decisions to the Council of Ministers. Since it obviously didn't meet, since it obviously doesn't exist at all, there may be a formal but it doesn't work at all, then, and I'm justifying in that sense, the only thing we all came under an emotional charge to this session. And we're all quite aware of the catastrophic situation on the ground, whether a swimming wave has reached someone's house or not, we've had a chance to see it regardless of all the successes and failures and public and some other broadcasters, we can't say we don't know. We, so the only body in BiH that this law has not established has not met at all. And now we bid, and each of us has the right to bid, because someone obviously doesn't do what we should do, then we'll propose. I've got hundreds of possible and impossible suggestions, but I'll refrain from putting out for one reason only. 65 While we are outsmart today for five hours, or seven hours with breaks, about whose minister was better at local, entity, state level, sucks, and today thousands of inhabitants of this country are somewhere under roofs, in the attics, or I don't know where, and I'm ashamed to hear that I'm misusing this situation because what's happening is worth Caricing, but it's a state of search that should be compromised. I'm not going to propose a single conclusion. There are very good thoughts here, I must say, very honest I will say intent, I expect the laws of this country to finally begin to be implemented, so if not in normal situations, even in situations like these and similar disasters. We have instruments, too. I have been scolding these days, looking at the Federal Minister of Health who, whoever he is, replaced the foreign minister, replaced the Council of Ministers, went and lobbyed with this in Zagreb, and then I see the news immediately after this one from the RS announces that tomorrow he will be with a colleague from Serbia, and this is the only one that the koordinacijski Body proposes to the Council of Ministers of Form and Ways of International Coordination and Help. And now we don't have to respect the laws, as they say, uh, if that's in good interest, but I'm afraid there's any of it. So we have a body to cooperate with, and we have the foreign minister and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Coordination Body, so let him do his job. Let it communicate with other states, let it coordinate receiving help. Where'd you get this kind of rush on those donor accounts? And you say let's build trust. I don't believe it. How am I supposed to believe it? Everyone's got the bills opened right away, that's first, great. International assistance co-ordinates this Co-ordination Council again and proposes decisions to the Council of Ministers. And I think, and I expect, I will not suggest that the Council of Ministers see if, in the form of that Coordination Body, they are not the appropriate experts, if not the right level, please welcome the ministers. Don't let them be part of this coordination body of state officials and ministerial assistants. You have the right to appoint a minister. You have the right to appoint yourself. You have the right from the entity to name that body, let the ministers name it. There's your coordination, it can't be better, and you agree on everything that... today was a lot of nice suggestions and how we're going to organize a donor conference. And I stand for only one, one single bill at the state level under the control of this coordination body and the Council of Ministers that will collect international humanitarian aid. Don't make us all blush again, I think we have reasons these days too much, especially to blush because of the way someone is going to ingest humanitarian aid that someone out of compassion sends to the citizens of BiH. And if it's 15 or 17, today I've heard, count on it that no one will have control over it, and then Bog help us all. So, I expect the Council of Ministers to review the work of this Coordination Body to finally or ask them to ask the Council of Ministers formally, only formally, because it has a lot of powers that the Council of Ministers must not exercise until it declares the state of the natural disaster. Take the gentlemen of the law we have, the reading, if the Coordination Council that we have today is unable for any reason or do not want to work, change it to your brother. And that's the easiest part of the job, and believe me, we're going to work a lot easier and we're going to have a lot of quality suggestions, not that we're individually bidding on what anybody likes or doesn't like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21816	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21817	Thank you, Chairman. 66 Here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to get a little attached to this material that we've got, although I can see that most of the discussions of today are not going in that direction, all of their visions are going out, but I'm going to still, I don't like the material as it is, I can't tell you right now, I can't praise the material, but there's still something that says, so I expected some other things. I didn't expect a lecture from the Council of Ministers, not from you chairman, I didn't expect many words from fellow Members today really in these difficult moments, but my Bog is happening, I guess it's a strange time. So here's how, if you're following the chairman, so I'm going to ask you, in this part where you're looking at international aid, so this under 3rd down somewhere in the middle of this side, I'm going to read -- in the course of the day 26.05 with the World Health Organization, health institutions in BiH have been coordinated with the activities of pollinating flooded space within the scope of a comprehensive joint implementation action... in the space of 3 countries affected by floods. I'm interested. What does that mean? To explain a little bit, there were questions of several MPs about the relationship, meaning dusting. The dusting is a broad term, it can mean a lot, it can be viewed with more aspects, so I'm interested, so what exactly was meant here, since I think my colleague looked back on the mosquito problem, because indeed in flooded areas, there are other huge surfaces and fertile land for mosquito development. Believe me, here I come from Prijedor, so the najd is general that you know down here, we have this problem, and people are complaining. After four hours, it's practically impossible to be out there. I also have to look back when it comes to this material, I expected you to bring up some of the problems that the Red Cross or the people who are helping on the ground might be facing, so the problems that civil protection headquarters are facing. I expected that something concrete would stand, that perhaps today we would solve any particular problem. We, as far as I can see from these discussions today, are not going to solve a single problem, we've even made a lot of things complicated, so definitely, there was a finance minister, so it was probably possible to react in that direction if it was necessary to help somewhere if there was some kind of a focal point. We don't see from this material here, and you haven't told us any more detail, and to be honest, it means that we're gonna help anyone, anything today, but I can see that there's nothing I have to say yet a few things, I have to, I don't have anyone to ask here, but here we all are, BHRT, again I think that he's supposed to be here in this room today and I need to pass this on today what we're talking about. We need it. Not only was the shift of Serbian ministers, possibly Vjekoslav Bevanda or anyone, or it meant changing some assembly majority in the Council of Ministers. It's the only interesting thing about me being in these benches that was interesting to BHRT. Isn't this an interesting thing today? If I'm not talking about exactly one bad reaction from the BHRT Public Service, then they're completely scheduled at these times when a lot of states have been flooded. They didn't report at all, their reports were very bad. In this context, I must commend the RTVRS, let the angry colleagues from the SDS, but there really was no other program than the floods, they were transferred, so the people from the field who were flooded, Bošnjak, returnees, refugees, Srbin, Hrvat, they all had a chance to say something, they had a chance to say all the commissioners, I don't think they chose there. I, believe me, I've seen Mića Mičić, equally, perhaps more than some other parties who have been from some other parties, let's not name now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no. 67 __________(?) There's no one in Bijeljina...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21820	The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21821	Thank you very much. I was really removing those misunderstandings at the beginning as it came, I was agreeing I didn't agree to that opening address, I actually said what the Council of Ministers was doing. My colleagues, Bursać, the one you asked about mosquitoes, I'm not going to refer to your question, because I explained. I received a revised agenda last night where it reads – a report by the Council of Ministers' Presidents and I adapted to what Parliament asked. But I also informed you that we have a Council of Ministers meeting on a daily basis and that the Minister of Security submits daily reports. To make it even more complete, you have now referred to the Report which was filed, so by the way, I said, so there's no problem, here I've given the Report, in a pause I received a request from the chairman to refer this report, we sent it immediately, so in the first break, we sent conclusions because it was in the debate requested by the Council of Ministers again, but we keep going back to the questions that have already been absorbed and they are finished for me, if we don't refer. I would ask you, not your colleague Bursać, because the essence is to go back to the Framework Law and go back to what the Framework Law provides and the rest. We have daily Council meetings of 68 mins, daily sessions, we have made one of the conclusions a task, this time and day will pass when life should be saved now, but it will be a month when the floods are dry, and then they will be able to talk, and then I will probably even talk more openly about the problems that have occurred in the coordination and the rest. So I'm telling you, as far as this dusting and mosquitoes are concerned, I'd better not talk about it. I'd rather not talk about it. I'm afraid that many planes above our land will eventually fly, and these areas will remain untapped. And I'm going to be looking for a report tomorrow at the Council of Ministers and you're going to get a real report on what's been going on, what's been going on and why it hasn't started by now, but it's not a report submitted by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The chairman of the Council of Ministers submitted the report, read it, delivered it to you for distribution and delivered the Council of Ministers' conclusions. It's not a controversy with anyone, but I just can't do it somehow, it's asking a question, it's asking me what I didn't say, it's writing, it's giving everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21822	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21823	No, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21824	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21825	Please don't throw yourself away.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21826	No, I apologize to you, Mr Bursać, I didn't just refer to you, but there were more questions, and here I kept silent as long as I saw what the conclusions would be, you all that you voted I am obliged to respect, or the Council of Ministers respect. We will not lead the controversy whether we are obliged to respect what is brought. One appeal to all, and that's said in the report here, in the first place, we have to return to the Framework Law that has been passed, one of the conclusions is to inspect the task force if it is, ask if there are changes, there are no changes, the coordination body should be respected. We're going to look for a report from the Coordination Body, or we're looking for it, and then we're going to discuss it. Here's my apology. It was all settled for dusting, why didn't it start here we'll ask why it didn't start.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21827	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21828	I thank the chairman. Speaking of pollinating mosquitoes, maybe that's one of those illustrative examples that shows how human vanity can narrow down what we do. Here's what I'm going to tell you, dear colleague, I don't know if Mr. Bevanda, I think he's aware of some of the things he's kept quiet here, but while I've been through the Operational Communications Center asking for some help in the mechanism for my community, the people of the Operational Communications Center have told me that they have 69 big problems and asked me to help them solve this problem. I asked - what problem? I've been told that from the Staff for the crisis situations of the RS or the Government, whom, they won't deliver any information regarding the need for pollination of mosquitoes or a request to do so, and they asked me to send our commissioners, the mayors, and we sent them. I invited the mayor of Bijeljina and Doboj and asked them to send those requests to the Operational Communications Center, even called the Brcko people of the administration we know. And they told me, just this morning I was begging for help again, from the Operational Communications Center they told me they were waiting, I guess they need to have three beautiful sunny days to do it. The question is, here is my dear colleague Lozančić speaking about the Operational Communication Centre. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ... And I see that here and in this report it says that there are certain problems and that they are looking at the inability to perform the functions of coordination of assistance set out in the Framework Law. I wonder, what are these problems, who's causing these problems? Let's see who it is who has the right to, under these circumstances when it comes to human lives, obstruct the work of something that we all need, no matter who it is or where it comes from, I absolutely don't care. The fact is, in this country, maybe someone's neglect caused people's lives to be lost. Furthermore, I'd like to ask Mr. Čavar, if he can, I'm very interested, I think we need to clear up some things, see if there have really been any particular failures. Besides this, we have two tasks here today, one task is to see how to help these people, how to find material financial resources. The second task is to try to mature or try to evaluate, I think it is impossible at this session, and we have therefore proposed the formation of a parliamentary body, an investigative body that would determine whether there was a failure to enforce the law and who is responsible for it? Not because we want to convict someone, but because we don't want this to happen again. What if Bog doesn't give us a more devastating earthquake? What if winter falls again the snow we had a few years ago? What if it happens to us this summer, to all this poor, miserable fires again? I got the information, and I'm very interested in whether it's true, that on May 15th when all those people died in Doboy, by the Republic Civil Protection Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, that only two requests have arrived for evacuation, one is in Doboy, one is the Dialysing Centre, the other is children who were, and at the request of the mayor, beware that the evacuation of these children is not, at the request of the mayor, I know that day, I know that I am interested in whether it is really, I see here Veseljko Elez has signed, is it possible that the day that only two requests from the Republic of the Civil Protection Authority of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia came to the OC? I know the demands have arrived, unfortunately on private lines. I am grateful to both the Armed Forces and the OkC for the work they did both that day and later in Bijeljina and Doboj. But here, too, what I'm interested in, I have to say, I just happened to meet some people who are big donors in these floods, and they were very angry and I'm interested in whether the OKC, and I think they have that kind of information, were angry because they sent it, and I have here they gave me a list of the help they had, one condition they had, that all this help would be right away, but immediately to get to the end users. And they gave me answers from two entity governments and the government of the Brcko District where it can be seen that the aid did not come within eight days. It did come to Brcko District and the Federation, unfortunately in RS did not reach the end users in an act he signed, I don't know who Velibor Janjić, at the RS Government's memorandum it stands 70 that the aid was stored in Kasar Kozara and one aggregate, 70 shovels, 500 bags and 20 sandbags was delivered. I mean, I just want full information, this isn't where we can discuss whether anyone in the RS has been making a failure, but we're going to have a National Assembly there, and I want to have full information for that National Assembly. I would also ask, and I fully support this initiative by Mr Lagumdžija, I hope that the SDP Club, here we will support, that in this body that will control the spending of donor funds and donors, we have already made one such proposal to include one of the representatives of the Union of municipalities and cities of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federation, because these are people who know best. I think our chiefs and mayors are more solidarity between each other than those in entity governments and the Council of Ministers. And we support, I say, that he finds himself because he shouldn't have been taught by experience, and I'm afraid he already has these abuses, and if they do, I know, here we are sending a municipal inspection, unfortunately there's been this humanitarian aid that the president of the local community council is ending up at the store. And that kind of thing happened, but I think we should cut those abuses to the maximum possible level. And of course, I also want to say, here's the Šekovići Municipality, there were armed forces' engagements, here's the game, I remember because I have a memo from the Šekovići Municipality, and there's been helicopter assistance and they've saved a lot of children there, and that's what I need to know. The fact is that these, nor the Council of Ministers are good, nor are the Armed Forces ideal. I'm sorry to say that the municipality I come from is from such a bad Council of Ministers and so bad authorities have benefited much more than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but that's true, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21830	Dear colleague Zijad Jagodić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21831	I thank the chairman. I really waited, these columns, I was on the 32nd list, so I didn't want to rephrase practically letting everyone in, I hope I won't be using as my predecessors for 10 minutes. But what I would like to do is, I'm sorry that Mr. Ljubić as chairman is gone, which is particularly surprising to me that as chairman of this House, when he says there is no system and I'm sorry, I don't want to speak, but I have to. Because if there wasn't a system in this country he wouldn't be sitting there and he wouldn't have a salary and we wouldn't be here and so the system does, but if that system wasn't functional, if it wasn't the right thing to do, it certainly would have agreed. However, my pleasure is so much greater that I am in opposition, but not without responsibility, I feel a responsibility, but that's why I think those in the front row, who are in position, they must at least look down because they have steering levers. Therefore, it cannot be said that they must not and should not bear responsibility for the part for which they can surely be held accountable. I'm not going to say directly to certain ministers and so on, but those who appointed them executives in executive power are certainly you, but these are indirectly responsible because they chose them. As for some connection and correlation with this, they say what the beginning is about to be about to end. If we analyze it and remember in 2010 that we waited 14 months for the establishment of the government, in 2014 look at how it is. On May 14th, we had a disaster, 14 days later we have this session, at 1400 hours, we probably had a break but no problem, I think the opposition has the right to lift his head today and position says everything he thinks. Don't take it for evil, but you answer, you lead, what you could do I believe you've done, and if you've done enough, if you could have done more, I believe you could have done more. Unfortunately, I think the election will come, but once again 71 let the people decide who they will vote on. If they estimate that you're right, well it's no problem, so we've done something contrary to their wishes about the responsibility for all this damage that's happened to us, I think it's definitely a great responsibility for civil protection. I, working in a spatial arrangement as a manager, have always seen what is in a particular area critical, where the narrow throats are and that we are solving it, just when it comes to waterways, the biggest problem is shown on the mouths, on the slaves, on the corners, on the floods and on certain such places where it does not seek and doesn't require too much resources, and that's what we could do. Look, the Sava River, the Drina River, they have the breadth but they don't have the depth. What's our orientation so the water doesn't pour? If we had cleaned up at least a meter of these rivers today, we wouldn't have had a flood, and I am indeed an MP, I didn't initiate in 2012 and 2013, let's dedicate this to the waterways, rivers and lakes, to save, to do preventively, not curatively. Today we have exactly that. I believe, there was also the Minister of Transport and Communications, he left, and just paying attention and attention to only one sight or form of transport is a great shame. I think we should have paid some attention to the rivers, just like the railroads don't pay off, which is why we have problems. When we smile and blink with an eye of 100 million euros, it goes to the tunnel, goes to the bridges, and when will it come back? I think it's a big problem and we're just having problems with the position that has made our projects possible for our programs. I believe it is. As for help, when everything happened, on all sides, the neighbours from Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and not to say from other parts of Europe, launched patriots, friends, to offer help. They came to the border, and no one wants to receive that help, or I can't, because the customs office says you didn't have an address, and so and definitely the people were disappointed. I believe that even at such times in our service, our institutions must predict at such times because people come to the border crossing without certain information, so they should have at the border services information that will immediately direct us not to wait and not to watch, at least for the public, because these are the international television broadcasts, that this humanitarian aid coming from the heart practically waited for a few hours, not to say some of them, the third day were disappointed because they had to target help to someone, they had to wait and give some charity and so on. I believe that this is also a major failure, and it is important to pay attention to the fact that emergency situations are regulated through regulations which, in a concrete example, solves when more forces are involved. As far as responsibility is concerned, I also believe that responsibility must be borne by directors, first of all look at Civil Protection, from municipality to canton, I think at higher levels. I can only confirm certain information that, by a few million, it seems to me in Tuzla Canton, 10 million marks were assets on the jury account unusable. How can we say that the commander, or what his function is, is that he only has the means to buy cars, jeeps, cars, good pay, and when he pinches on his bottleneck, when it comes to cleaning up these critical points that there is no spilling, because that's the point. It's definitely all quiet and they say here we couldn't stop the higher power, it's so from Bog and what I know. I think the waterways, I come from that dam and I can say that the waterways are the same as the railways, they have to be guided, they have to be directed. If we let it go, we'll experience what we've experienced. Unfortunately, I think that we must also look for responsibility in the inspection service. I, working in a spatial arrangement as a manager, have often been warned of black construction. People make houses where they come to mind. We have to take care of it, just like we're building highways now, so we pay off people who definitely have a building facility of great value without a building permit. Such people are paid full value. That's inadmissible. We encourage black construction and crime, all at the expense of the people of this man who bleeds 72 gains of income. So we have to look for responsibility no matter how anyone thinks. That's my thinking. The question of these damages is, what are they, direct, indirect damages. I, believe me, I've worked a lot in various areas, but I don't think direct or indirect damage, there's no math or economy, no matter what we've heard, some hundreds of millions, no one's going to figure it out, and no one's going to do it when they pay anyone, I'm convinced. Something's going to take care of it, but it's up to us to look for what's possible at this point to make things as relaxed and try to normalize life. I think about these millions, billions, and what we expect from the outside, that we don't expect too much than to trust ourselves and our own powers. When it comes to rerouting funds, we've had a chance today to hear it reroute, it reminds me the same thing when we say here we're going to turn off the lights to save 100,000 marks, so we're going to take the candles. It doesn't make sense. We can't do that. We have to look for new sources. Because if we cut budgets, we don't ask the question of new production, new product, gross social product, new values, new employment, no reinforcements. Every reduction, it is linearly reflected on everything and ultimately we have no effect. I would definitely recommend that if someone were to donate a thing to someone, to see what it is possible to take, but it will definitely be an ugly picture if we tell the donor, give it to the person X, give it to the person Z. I think it's my thinking, and through budget items as we suggest, that we are now rerouting to take someone who we know is also in this year 2013, or 2014 we entered with a smaller budget and so on, but we know from the SDA that we were against every reduction, but on the contrary we were to increase production, productivity, employment, everything, don't reduce. Every reduction isn't good, but here's the thing, and if we go down, then we can definitely expect only bigger problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21832	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21833	Here, let me give you half a minute. I'll just say it. How can I help you? Please, we have over 200,000 acres of unprocessed agricultural land, 670,000 acres of land being heated. That's 40% now flooded. He thinks that through these 200,000 acres, if we were to say that all those who want to, and there are a lot of people who would work on agriculture, but there's no one to buy that product, if we say that in this business we can offer people at least a ransom, and that was my initiative often, unfortunately not adopted, but I think that at this point we can say the most, at least we'll buy you products, that people hire, let them look for their engagement and in agriculture, so help in entrepreneurship. And in terms of asking for help, you'd ask for everyone together, to be more careful not to turn out every time that happens, there's a flood, there's a fire, there's an explosion, there's a fire, I don't know what we're not, we're looking for outside help. We really, I don't know how long we're going to run politics this way no matter how much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21834	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21835	Whoever is in power, I ask you to make sure that we don't ask for help for every single thing, but to exert our own strength, otherwise we bear responsibility if we haven't done something. 73 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21836	Thank you. Please call your clubmates or I'll have to take a break for the quorum. To call your colleagues to be as polite as we've heard them and they're listening to the other speakers, otherwise I'm gonna have to take a break, because there's no quorum. Dear colleague Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21837	So it is a replica, thank the chairman, it is a replica, a replica towards, in fact, a number of debaters. I don't think this session, this agenda item, is prepared to discuss this at all. Here today, without some coordinated parameters, each has its views and opinions. I think this should have been channeled, that it should have been channeled by the executive. So, the executive government had to give some synopsis that would be our orientation to say something, to get a chance to say something. The executive government didn't do it. I have to say I didn't know about this law that my colleague made, and the law is the basis that we talked about, and I see most people didn't know about that law. The proposal by the foreign executive authority was to mention the law, to call on what it envisions, which are key elements of the law on such occasions. That's not said, and for so many hours we've been sitting here uselessly, I've had the hardest time serving the army in my life. You know, when you're doing something useless or I'm sitting here today useless, I didn't learn that at all, so I learned to use my time rationally. This is an irrational use of time. I don't know, I'm saying that a hundred gods come and beg me for another term wouldn't go to... _________(?) He wouldn't go. You wouldn't go to that term. _________(?) Right here, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21840	Dear colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21841	Thank you, Chairman. He says hello to all those present, I'm going to say briefly because I see that we're all a little tired, when I was preparing this part of the agenda today, I was going to make one conclusion about what the predecessors were, my colleagues were already saying better, it's a matter of health care for the endangered population. I think a large number of my colleagues who have spoken in a certain way have touched this issue, some about mosquitoes, some about something and so on. But it's all kind of peripheral. The issue of health care isn't some issue we'll be dealing with tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, a month, that's a question we'll probably be dealing with for the next few years. I would like to say on this occasion that the issue of health care for the endangered population should not be viewed as just a question, meaning the occurrence of infectious diseases. For us doctors, who have enough here, it is quite clear that in these circumstances, in such catastrophic circumstances, it is quite possible, there is a law of probability that says that there may be some diseases that the World Health Organization has long forgotten, which are somewhere, means by some textbooks, but there are really ideal conditions for such infectious diseases to occur, not only contagious but others. Here I want to mention something else very important, which is a question of the mental health of the population. We all know that, so the question of both physical health and mental health is of first-rate importance to the entire population. We have a catastrophic event here. We all remember that we meant during the war when there were various catastrophic events for man as an individual or as a population, that after the war, we had a huge number of cases of people suffering from PTSD in BiH. According to the international classification, PTSD shines, means a disease that occurs after a catastrophic event. We here have a catastophilic event of wide scales that has been affected, not only means BiH but also neighbouring countries. So I was, therefore, thinking that it would be very good for the Ministry of Civil Affairs in co-operation with the entity health departments, meaning that together, it would address the World Health Organization, in which I had an informal conversation with Mr. Minister Nović, who was happy and said that the Ministry of Civil Affairs had already come into contact with the World Health Organization on this matter and would take certain measures. I think it's very good and that it's good, means that one strategy is being made, that is, to be the one to encourage that kind of health care strategy of the threatened population of BiH and the neighbouring 75 countries. I think that this World Health Organization could be very good at providing assistance in the form of experts or certain projects. On the other hand, I'd like to say what we're all saying, here these days we say land, so we're going to spray it and so on. If we look at this disaster, so it's not just about human, economic and other, it's an ecological disaster. The issue of ecological disaster is a very important and also important issue that I think representatives, official representatives of the Council of Ministers, mean, together with the entity and all other levels of government, to delegate means to certain UN institutions. It's quite clear, so our land is polluted. We have meaning, it's not just a matter of microbiological soil pollution, it's heavy metals, it's that tomorrow we might have monsters that won't be usable for human consumption, we might have monsters that will have certain genetic modifications under the influences of various factors that happened here, so that nothing will be useful for human nutrition. We also think we should become potential regional together with the Ministry of Civil Affairs and possibly foreign affairs, also a regional large project on such environmental protection issues. I haven't been long, because I'm pretty much like this, yeah, we're all tired, so this is what I'm gonna end up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21842	Thank you. Next debater, distinguished colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21843	Mr. Chairman. It's not that it's almost not said, but what's been the disaster that's hit us, so with hundreds of years of floods, we underestimated a very important factor in natural non-humans that's possible to hit the area in this situation in BiH and in the countries of the region. Certainly the hardest and worst thing possible is human lives that are, lost human lives. At the same time, there are different stories now, and unfortunately, this story is mostly filled with political differences that anyone could have done. Generally, my assessment of this, I believe that at all levels we haven't had enough training and we haven't taken seriously one essential thing that lasts from here for years. As a boy, I remember the mark, almost three miles from Drina when she... Drina, therefore a blue area more than 3 km from its current and where they were thrown out, so dead bodies, or corpses buried as an unknown face. So nothing happened. We forgot long before the war, each time, signs of alarm happening in local communities as part of a warning. And it can't be said that the security ministry's security centre and the entity's civil protection administration didn't provide reports in time. It's a naked lie and it has absolutely nothing to do with anyone and a charge. Unfortunately, the responsible faces underestimated that story. That's possible. It's also possible as part of the psychological effect. Who believed there would be a war? What was going on back then? When it comes to natural disasters, it is often impossible to avoid. You see, we didn't get hurt here in the sense that they were being saved, we had the fact of the shock wave, the drowning and the loss of human lives. In the current way of protecting against, this watery area, it was not more than possible to do this than to make a timely evacuation. So, I think that's where we've suffered our losses. 76 What is our role as a legislative body? I believe that all of us at all levels have to do everything possible to make sure that anyone who has lost a roof over his head, accommodations, as soon as possible. So it's a key role. We personally need to do everything we can to make sure that this ends by the end of August of the month. Every term after that is a possible risk that will introduce them into the position of refugee centres. Can we do that? I think we also have positive examples in this disaster. I mean, I'm talking about how I've been communicating with responsible people, how institutions have worked in accordance with the law and the state in which they point out. And there's no one who's ignored a condition. Everyone seemed as likely in this situation as possible. I welcome what the Council of Ministers has done according to the law. I'm not going to name anyone individually, but I think it's all been done to make some significant shifts. What more than this do? The Council of Ministers, together with the competent entity governments and local communities affected by this, must do everything urgently to present the state of tragedy in BiH. Anything should be done to organise a donor conference, whether for BiH or for countries in the region. We need to show it extremely honestly and responsibly, and this Parliamentary Assembly must do everything possible so that we are not in a state that is not impossible, so from next month I cannot pay salaries for public sector employees. The information that 80% of direct taxes in the second half of May were paid to entity accounts, i.e. in the Tax Administration of the RS, is alarming. What's that gonna mean? Job loss. We will have certainly reduced funds from indirect taxes, first of all the biggest revenues are from VAT, they are inevitably in decline. What can happen in this situation and how can it be reduced? What can we do? How is it possible that this Parliamentary Assembly is not holding an emergency session tonight, I am speaking of the House of Peoples and a decision is made on the adoption of laws, amendments and additions to the Excise Act? Should BiH also be punished with this IMF loan tranche? What is it that we need to urgently do about this bill that could put us in a situation of blockade, so it's ingesting funds from, say, diaspora or any other transaction, I mean this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist activities. What is it that BiH is close to two billion approved loans and that we are paying interest on undrawn funds, so who is it that needs to do the projects so that these loans are withdrawn? One important question that is, here we often ignore and often create political acrobatics, which is essential. Can the coordination mechanism and what is the problem in this country? You know what the problem is. If we cannot answer, the problem is that we always want something more than that. I think the most this country needs right now is investment. It's saving jobs. How do we think of BiH's approach, economic and social development without agreement on the coordination mechanism? I do not believe that the EU requires more than that from BiH in any way but to agree on the Constitution and the laws of this country. Do we have the willingness to do that? Does it make sense to talk about any election process if we're in a situation where we have 100,000 or 150,000 unsettled people ahead of winter? What can be done to direct the funds of the refugee ministry and displaced persons to others? So, I believe that the co-worker of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly should, therefore, be in a narrow line, to make a proposal for measures to enable legislation that would be acceptable in the next three months and that would allow financial resources in BiH to be held jointly, to hold a meeting of extended colleges, to have this consensus of all and the positions and opposition, not to tell any lies. You can always step up something that has absolutely nothing to do with reality. Life is at stake here, no one can justify it unless we do it for every citizen in BiH. What are we supposed to expect from these people who were in the flood from Doboy, the Šamc, the Maglaj? What are those poor people doing where all the bridges are broken, where they can't cross for days? We must do 77 to as the most legislative body of this country according to the Constitution and the law do everything to do more than this now. I think it's our responsibility, including, I said one more time, and personal financing of everything that we can do in accordance with our options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21844	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21845	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, if we excuse the victims who were this damage, the disaster if they change our thinking, then there won't be that much damage, maybe there'll be a chance for a new economic swing. Because how much damage is being done, my colleague Lazar was saying, if we don't have a coordination mechanism, and we want to be an EU member? What's the damage done if we don't have a strategy at the level of the state of energy, health care, we don't have access to that money? How much damage is being done only in the last ten years, if we say here for the first ten years was war, recovery, but the last 10 years deficit in BiH is 72 billion and 407 thousand, so in the last 10 years, we've made a minus. What I'm interested in is a detail of how much damage is being done here for the agriculture that we're talking about, when we haven't set up a payment system at BiH level for agriculture and rural development, which immediately provides us with 30m euros from the European Fund. And I am very interested in how they will react to the EU donor conference when they say – you will not organize and take the money ready, how we will give it to you. That's why I'm saying if this damage is going to change our thinking in another direction, I don't think it's going to be that bad. I hope people's solidarity and this immediate damage, I say - we'll push it out. But in the long run, so we need to change the strategy. And in this direction, here is a brief conclusion to see if there is any will of the current Council of Ministers to make a small move, and the conclusion is: The conclusion in charge of the Council of Ministers' Presidency is that, together with entity prime ministers and the Ministers of Agriculture, the Entires are put into office of the payment system in agriculture and rural development for BiH so that BiH can use EU pre-accession funds for rural development. Here, that's my conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21846	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21847	I thank the chairman. Here, I am estimating the time, exhaustion, reduced concentration and the Council of Ministers and us here in the O.R., I will focus my discussion solely on the proposal of the conclusions that my colleague 78 Beriz Belkić and I have prepared, given the fact that, namely, we have come to the understanding of these conclusions from the facts which are all the competences of this Parliament, i.e. possibly the suggestions of the Council of Ministers to make some moves and not to discuss whether the institutions have done anything, whether there could have been more, whether, because there have been a lot of exhaustion here today, but as we have seen any initiative to change anyone from the Council of Ministers or from any state institution, so they have all done their job and so on. So, first of all, we suggest that the Council of Ministers be tasked with all activities in the new borrowing of international financial institutions to address the consequences and reduce the risk of natural disasters caused by floods and slides in BiH. I will only remind you that, that this Parliament, i.e. the state institutions, is irrevocably competent for international, international borrowing, i.e. debt and so on. The second proposal for a conclusion, the Council of Ministers, in co-operation with lower levels of government in BiH, will make a list of priorities that will be the basis for the implementation of activities on BiH's new external borrowing. Third, the Fiscal Council is in charge of considering the needs of amending the BiH budget and preparing a new medium-term fiscal framework to take account of the significant drop in economic activity in BiH as a consequence of the elemental disasters that have hit BiH and the prominent, on the other hand, the stressed needs of budgetary assistance in the post of addressing the effects of the floods, i.e. the slide in BiH. I don't think that there should be an economist here, but that we all understand not only the direct economic consequences of this disaster, or the elemental disasters, but also those that will follow in the next period, which are already visible in both revenues, reduced revenues and increased budget expenditure requirements. Fourthly, the Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing proposals to amend existing laws providing funds in the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations and which are the basis for expenditure financing, to provide additional resources in the function of resolving the consequences of the elemental disasters. I will remind you that this Parlementary Assembly has already passed laws in a number of convocations containing criminal provisions that have already been exceeded in its sizes, quantities. In addition, the situation in which we are present and especially now in this period has shown that criminal provisions are inappropriate and we appreciate that we could at least increase and make such moves or increase, for example, or by reducing some, some items in existing laws could provide additional resources. The fifth conclusion, the Council of Ministers is tasked with providing a transparent way of managing BiH's funds to reduce the risk of possible abuses in co-ordination with BiH institutions. I'll remind you, most of them probably had a chance to hear the news that numerous levels of government from local, municipal, cantonal, entity, and even political parties opened donor accounts. So, we have already created assumptions, institutional assumptions in BiH for the potential misuse of funds from donations, possible donations intended to help people who need it. 79 and the sixth, I will ask for special attention, we call on political parties to fund the pre-election campaign, and especially those intended to print billboards, posters and other advertising materials deposited on account of raising funds to help the population injured in floods and slides in BiH. To avoid any criticism of demagogy, each of us needs to be aware that every printed poster, billboard or anything is the squares of living space for the population that has died in these floods. The proposal for a conclusion we will deliver in the procedure, if anyone considers these conclusions to be politically colored, or if there is resistance to coming from one opposition party, we give up authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21848	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21849	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. With sincere regret for all the victims that occurred during these floods and all the damage that has been done to the citizens of BiH, I would like to say that one moral dimension of the citizens has come to, and that is what we can learn from this as a lesson that both humanity and solidarity among the citizens has been present all the time and it is still active today. To talk about certain levels of government whether they did something or not is very difficult to talk about today, absolutely impossible. In order to discuss this and to analyse, evaluate and even after that execute or sanction individuals who have not done their own, we must have a comprehensive analysis of each level of government, see where more could be done and what essentially has not been done. After that, we can only discuss who made the failures or analyzed whether we have legal obstacles or if we have legal failures in which the Council of Ministers or other executive part of the government should recommend to parliaments changes to certain laws in order to be prepared for Bog not to give any other situation to make us more quality, more adequate and with maximum engagement work. It is now important to do everything to prevent the situation from getting worse, to make plans and programmes and in rescheduling damage in the whole BiH area. The co-ordination body of the Council of Ministers numbers 21 members, whether it could have been done more or not, we'll get it over time, whether it was activated, whether it could have been by law, but we certainly need one complete analysis. To the purpose of the proposal, I would like to say what I pointed out on several occasions, and now it has proved that something has really been done where the gap in certain ministries has been done. For two years, I was saying that the Ministry of Civil Affairs does not have a complete team of the Health Sector, that 50% is not filled with the Ministry of Health, or the Health Department, and that some of the jobs that should be done are absolutely not able or able to do so. And the other thing, when we spoke and when the conclusion of this Parliamentary Assembly was to create a common health reform strategy at the level of the whole of BiH, normally that the health powers of the entities and the department of Brcko District, today it proved that it had to be done, because now a grant of funds or for the IPA funds we absolutely cannot, absolutely compete for a grant of funds, or for IPA funds. In order to prevent infectious diseases and care for the health of the population, I propose two conclusions: 80 That the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs is urgently forming an expert expert team for the prevention, monitoring of infectious diseases in BiH and the consequences of catastrophic floods, as well as coordination with the World Health Organisation and other international organisations. I must say that communications are now more at entity level, ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21852	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21853	Well, there have been a lot of discussions today that some fellow MPs wanted to use this story about the accident that took place in BiH, to try to at least run through this story in some way or BiH's afirmist as a country that is like Croatia, like Serbia, like Japan that took place in a natural disaster and then has to solve its issues. But I think that Mr. Đugum's discussion has gone beyond measure now in every respect, because you want to create a situation here at this disaster and disaster of nature that happened in BiH that one sector in the Civil Affairs Ministry is stronger, has more jurisdiction and authority than the entity health ministry. So you just need to take a look at the jurisdiction of the Constitution, what are the competences of these state ministries and what are entities. And you mention how it bothers you that some cities and villages have hospitals with supposedly, you say, some huge capacities. Well, here I am going to tell you that Bijeljina has a hospital worth 100 million marks and opened last year. And what you have against is that citizens in any part of BiH, entities, cantons, whatever we take, should be treated in good and quality and efficient health institutions. Or do you think everything there is to stand in Sarajevo, so that I don't know the Sembers, the Banja Lukans... come and pray where they will, when they will be admitted and what will they do? And by the way, I'm going to tell you about all the people you're worried about getting infected, whether they're going to get sick, what's going to happen to them, their treatment here, and that's going to happen to the RS Health Fund and the Federal Health Fund. And get it out of your head to dream of a state health fund or a state health ministry, that while the SNSD is here in Parliament is not going to happen, that is, as long as it is in the strength of this Constitution that BiH is working on, and you're just wasting the time of this Parliament and possibly people who would do something more useful and not listen to such stories. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21854	Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21855	Lucky you're a woman, your discussion absolutely has no place, that's lucky there's a 200 million-mark hospital in Bijeljina, that's lucky. I'll take part in it, and I'll be the first to be, raise my hand whenever we need any capacity. If it were luck, if the law were to be implemented about 100 million marks on drugs alone, we'd be swept away a year, if it was lucky to go to grand funds and IPA funds, not credit lines where the machine was bought three times, that's what you support. If you support that, I won't stand behind it. Clearly, you were at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission where it was argued how much individual appliances cost, if you stand behind those who mix with appliances, I will not be able to decide whether the hospital rules in Sarajevo, Bijeljina, Mostar or anywhere. The crime he took so much in health, from drugs to apparatus, I can't support. If you think that this way of thinking is a way to make triple capacity fair then we'll see how far we'll go. I suggested making a hospital for children regardless of whether it will be in Mostar, Banja Luka or Sarajevo or Tuzla, regardless of any town in Bijeljina, which will treat children with leukemia where bone marrow transplants will be done, it has not been adopted here. We don't have to spend 200,000 euros on each child, I don't care if she's going to be in Bijeljina or Banja Luka, but let's get those funds there so they can be treated here, let's not go to Italy, France or anywhere because we have the capacity. Please, you've got it absolutely wrong, you're wrong and you're the only one, Mrs. Marković, on every discussion about this part that someone wants to transfer jurisdiction and then as if the wasp bit you. Please jurisdiction are health care on entities and no one disputes it, but the coordination role in capacities as a co-ordination role in the list of medicines is the Council for Health, the Agency for Medicinal Products, the Council for Health, the coordination role in the capacity of certain experts is at the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21856	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21857	You just realize, separate these things, the competences of the entity ministries and the obligation of civil affairs in this part as a coordination role, that's all you'll understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21858	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21859	So what else can I say than that you've really gone a long way in that dream and some imagination of what should be the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the expectations that there is a health ministry at BiH level. If you've got in the Federation of Criminals in Health, no one's slowing you down that the Federal MuP is fighting it, SIPA whatever you want. But if there are any abuses in RS health care will be dealt with by the RS MUP and don't worry about who, whether there is a butcher, whether there is abuse, this in RS healthcare, will be taken care of by the RS authorities. And in the hospital in Bijeljina, although it is worth 100 million marks, as well as in the hospital in Banja Luka, as well as in the hospitals in the Federation, no one will defend that, nor will any of the doctors in the 83 Belgian hospital bring back a patient coming from Theoccam or from Janja, although he is Bošnjak, it is no obstacle for him to be treated at the hospital. As I believe, many patients leaving Bijeljina in Tuzlo are no obstacle to being treated there if they want to and if they want to. So those nebulises that we hear about needing don't know the abuses, this, what, forget that story about having a health ministry and a health fund at BiH level, that's not going to happen while we're in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21860	So what do you think now is he's looking for a club break for half an hour, and I think he's calming down a little bit and making it a little easier and all, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21861	...in that direction I speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21862	Well, thank you. First Deputy Chairman, colleague Božo Ljubić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21863	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs. So, this controversy and these replicas at first gave me a reason to report for the replica, and I was also informed while I was out of the room that one of the MPs, in fact, replicated this to my debate, about how this, as Dr. Ljubić can claim there is no system, and he's receiving a salary, seems to me this, in this country based on the system. Now, look, in fact, this debate and these polemics are saying that there is no system here, and that there is no one I will just quote, so this part of this report today that we have received from the Ministry of Security that says – there are some problems in the functioning of the Co-ordinating Body, and they are looking at the inability to perform coordination functions, help established by Framework Law, which all the time corresponds to disaster and so on. and so on. This, therefore, is obvious that there is no system, that there would be no system for fellow Đugum to have the need to propose parasystem measures and to form certain co-ordination bodies, because we in a country that has existed here for 20 years after its recognition would have, therefore, a system of institutions that should be responsible and in regular and especially in exceptional circumstances. So that's one thing. The second thing, therefore, is no argument against, so to speak, certain institutions at the state level that there is no ministry at the state level in the Constitution, and here is no need to have it, I have cited an example of Switzerland that does not have it, but there is a Public Health Service that needs to worry, so to speak, about these things and the like. On the other hand, each country has a Ministry of Health or most countries have a Ministry of Health at the state level and has public health institutions. When I say public health care, I don't mean health care fund, so these are institutions that care about prevention, uh, health promotion, disease prevention, vaccinations, epidemic prevention, etc. and so on. for those who follow less the health sector. And yet there is a World Health Organization as a supranational multilateral body that has all the departments that deal with the same things, so, among other things, the department that deals with, therefore, the prevention of infectious diseases, and prevention and... non-profit diseases, etc. and so on. And, of course, in this 84 situation, there is no one, so to speak, the right to intervene in the existing system and seek to change that system because they are ultimately a reflection of the Constitution of BiH and, as such, they are a given thing for now, but within this givenness, they can function much better, much better. So, uh, the fact that there are health funds at entity level, that there are health funds even at canton level doesn't prevent, so to speak, that patients are being treated where they're closest, where they're best, because the best principle, so to speak, is that money follows the patient. However, we also miss this system, so in this existing system, so the patient here is to say from Nevessinj that any services of tertiary health care must go to Banja Luka, and Mostar is at, as I say, five steps instead of, to say, to create such a system that, uh, what colleague Marković told the Institute, the Health Insurance Fund of the RS pays its patient by contract is regulated with the Mostar Clinical Centre and treated where patients are best suited and where they will receive adequate protection. Since there are systems, counterpart Jagodić, we would not have to discuss and propose parasystem measures today, so that is the essence of this country. And I will be here completely, to put it this way, roughly open BiH is currently functioning, i.e. it does not function as one provider that survives in this state only thanks to one extraordinary one, so to speak, to the intervention of an international officer in the political and financial sphere, and as long as we do not, so to speak, realize that we need the state as some kind of service this, here and that we need to build a system, we will face similar problems both this and the system deficits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21864	Thank you. I hope we get back on the subject. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21865	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. I wish Mr. Ljubić hadn't come out this time and replicated something that's really at the very least, here's what I have to say to an esteemed colleague, funny. He mentions some kind of parasystem measure, no system, no this, no one. I understand Mrs. Marković, who absolutely did not understand the message of Mr. Đugum, my distinguished colleague and student. If Mr. Kabil or Vesna or Lazar Prodanović or I were colleagues, I might understand that there's something about health care. However, Mrs. Marković absolutely did not understand the story and message delivered by Mr. Đugum, which I really welcome this time. The story of some kind of state-run health ministry here is gone, there's no basis, there's no talk, there's no conversation. What do I agree with Mr. Ljubić? In one of the mentions of the Swiss health model and mentions the Institute of Public Health which has Switzerland on the level of state. And what differs is this health reform strategy that Mr. Đugum mentioned, I don't know, but I do know for sure that the Public Health Institute should have at the state level, which should be within the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Health Committee, in any case this same Institute of Public Health should also have a health reform strategy and ways. Gentlemen, here in addition to the situation that we have had, and unfortunately there will be up to 40, 50 victims of our BiH citizens in these floods, not yet a round number, I hope it will be smaller, but if we say 26 in RS, now I don't know right here in the Federation, now it's about 40 85 numbers, our basic concern is what we're talking about, and that's our citizens' health. We need to know that millions of people are in fact, we're not going to say evicted, but they must be affected by these floods. A million people, at least a million people in BiH. Now, at least a third, if it's not bigger, we'll know it's from the cattle fund, it's gone to us. What, I don't know if Mrs. Marković was able to leave to see pigs, cows, etc. float, which I saw four years ago, (?) No microphone turned on I saw, yes, I saw it, and then we'd have to worry and support what Mr. Đugum was talking about. So, I absolutely agree and support Mr. Đugum's project.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21867	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj has a discussion. Did an esteemed colleague have not two but three replicas, they saw little through your fingers when I wasn't there. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21868	Here, first of all, it means that, since I'm reporting for the first time, I join myself with the sympathy of all the victims in these floods. First, to say that, what I expected of course, which is that what I expected, means Mr. Chairman and one minister are here. I, this is the deputy, deputy, deputy, and I apologize to this minister until now, so I'm sorry, so... So much for being serious. So this is the first time I've seen this minister after he's appointed to be here, and if not, tell me. Secondly, I don't think... he doesn't understand because he's turned from a microphone... a philosophical setting, Mrs. Majkić. I thought that colleagues who are here two, three mandates, I don't want to name them, and those who honor me for the 47 minutes, that's you, Mr. Jovičić, that you knew that the law that you voted for was passed in 2008. For years, it is called the Framework Law on the Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural or Other Accidents in BiH. Well, I thought we were going to discuss this, and then I was surprised that everyone was collecting, or most of them were collecting some cheap political points. By reading this law, and I read it...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21869	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21870	It's not too late because the SDS is going to start criminal charges against the NN face, and I checked it out earlier, no journalists, so it's not politics. Because in this law, everything we talked about stands. And the great disappointment, the me who appears rarely, 47 minutes, if I had read it somehow 86, and those who appear every time, you can't open your eyes from them, they haven't read it, because if they had read it, they wouldn't have discussed it the way they discussed it. Disagreements with Mr. Ljubić about the system in this principle, and I think the point of the agenda is the flood, not the health care, but I'm talking about these things right now. If there's a system in BiH, then there's a system of what we talk about every day. Now, I don't know if I should use these eight minutes to read you this Law, I think that would be the smartest thing. So that's all they say, don't mention the words of stupidity and this kind of nebulosis, and that when someone says someone who doesn't like being interrupted by a session, and very often it's heard from some other MPs, so it doesn't interrupt the session, that all of it, I don't have the words to say what I heard today, or most of what I heard today. Maybe it's the smartest thing for me to feel the way I felt two, three years ago, because I think sometimes it's better to be quiet and not tell an empty story, because there's a lot of empty stories here. Now, I'm asking a question to the Council of Ministers, what Mr. Mladen Čavar is, you see, we don't have a minister of security that we really need in these situations where we are today, we have a deputy minister, what he wrote to us here is a set of information, a state, consequences, a situation on the roads, what whoever was doing, where whoever was working and positively, that's what man saw. But what the law says isn't what you wrote to us, that's a lot of things. And I ask you, have you read this law, and what is the obligation of the Ministry of Security? Or you read it so you don't have an answer, so you wrote this to us and you thought no one knew there was a law on saving people and material goods from natural or other accidents in BiH. And we'll have when we talk because I hope we understand the seriousness of the situation we're in. Much is said here which is good, and I must admit, a lot is proposed, probably what will pass, with one goal and that is how to help BiH citizens in Maglai, Doboj, Bijeljina. They're not interested in the framework law, they're not interested in the law, they're not interested in the law, they're not interested in the law, they're not interested in the framework, they're not interested in the law, so people are left without material property, some are lost, some are out of food, some are out of water, and we're in a situation to collect cheap political points. And I'm sure none of us are going to get any cheap political points, but we're going to have to discuss in the future the guilt he's clearly got. Now, I'm not going to say if it's the Council of Ministers' fault, whether it's the government's fault, the entities, whether it's the local community's fault, but it's obvious that he's guilty. What I'd like to ask specifically, because everything I've been meaning to ask people has been asked so it's funny to repeat myself. The specific question is, given that there is a budget reserve in the Budget of BiH, and it is 3 million and 900 questions one question, but the question honestly, it may have been spent so far, I don't know, I'm not sure, if it isn't, then there's a proposal – there's no better way that this budget reserve, which is 3 million and 900, is spent in the fund of this solidarity that we're all talking about. I think it's, uh, it can be resolved by tomorrow, and I suggest we get rid of it tomorrow. If you've done it, I mean I have no evil intention, but if you've done the right thing, unless you suggest you do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21871	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21872	I thank you, Your Honor, for your esteemed colleagues. Of course, I'm not going to talk about health care, but I'm going to talk about some things that are here at the end of our discussion today, and I'm not going to turn anyone on because we're one powerless group of people who has nothing to do with it. We have reached sea conclusions that have nothing to do with life and, unfortunately, will not help those who need help. I'm not going to talk about the Ministry of Health at the state or entity level because it's not a measure of the problem, because basically at this point it can't help these people who are basically poor, not to be pathetic, and people who have built, many, their houses in illegal locations because of the lack of a system. Andrić long ago, "At the Drina Cupria", very well described what a flood means and what an uncontrollable river means, and uncontrollable nature, and what it means at that time, the damaged eco system. He made it clear that large uncontrollable floods were the response of nature to human negligence. What's happening now is purely human negligence. We are the cause of this human negligence and we haven't made any of our gestures in the last 5, 10, 15 years, 20 years to preserve our eco systems. The former Yugoslavia, however it may be, is a miracle for this country. The former Yugoslavia had the most orderly water supply system in this entire part of Europe, we can accept it or not accept it, simmer on the Sava, regulate the Drina. I just remember when the Trebišnica Termoelectrica was being debated so much that the bottom or not concrete was being detonated, that, at that time, the eco-system would not be disrupted and the eco-system would be disrupted. That's what respected professors used to say who weren't party leaders, but great experts. Unfortunately, we no longer have experts, we only have people who listen to certain policies and who will therefore sacrifice these people who are simply one collateral damage to the eco system. We're talking about floods and talking about how to regulate floods. I have had the opportunity to stay professionally in the Netherlands on many occasions and have not been as fascinated by their medicine as their concern for the eco system. The Netherlands is beneath the sea. Have you ever heard of a flood in Holland? You didn't hear because man and nature live together. You have a phenomenon in Switzerland that all the waterways and all the rivers that have been played by the case must be removed. Why? Because the microworld beneath these concrete water streams is being destroyed. We have absolutely destroyed it in such a beautiful country thanks to the negligence of human beings, I repeat the negligence of human beings, we have destroyed the forests and we have the largest glider in Europe right now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, well, well, well, well, well, Okay, so I don't want to politicize absolutely and say who's to blame. It's nobody's fault here because there's no sense of responsibility. Whatever Croatia is, whatever the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia is, they are if anything else is due to those victims, the unfortunates who have lost all the investigative actions to say who is to blame for the failure of the embankment, I don't know, in Croatia and Serbia. I personally think someone will be prosecuted and someone will be punished. We don't have any jurisdiction. If I were to say now whether we're going to launch an initiative to punish someone, I think someone's going to say it right now - we're not in charge of it. And he is right to say that, as is also right Mrs Marković, who clearly says - there is no health ministry at the state level, which is absolutely correct. And here I think it's a waste of energy to even discuss it. 88 So today I would perhaps, if we could have a little empathy for all these people who have been killed, not paying attention to the region, to the nation, to the name and last name, send at least one message, maybe it's a false message, a message that Croatia and Serbia sent to their citizens or to their peoples or to their peoples as you wish, I can't tell the citizens, unfortunately, which is that all those houses that are unhappy will be remedied and that those who are in some homes will be returned to their homes after the first phase of recovery. Croatia's government did so after five days of all this happening in Croatia, and the Republic of Serbia may have done so before. This is what I'm telling you, for one reason only – that all these conclusions that are simply washing our conscience as it is, have no effect. We should now organise a new session of this Parliamentary Assembly to bring these 150 conclusions to one which is – that we are powerless, that we are autistic and that we have absolutely no power to respond to what is currently happening in the state. Which is why I ask you, if we can at this point, make at least one single conclusion that will be above the policy, above the daily policy and any other policy, which is, at least together, which is that it sounds very nice, to express our condolences, our condolences, as you will for the victims of these and we simply promise, we promise, of course, we lie a lot, to these people that we will do something. What is it, of course, is very little, and trust me that these people who have suffered themselves will solve their problems without us parliamentarians, without entities, without municipalities, because this unproductive meeting that we have here today, and also in the parliaments of the Federation, the RS, the municipalities, where simply leaders, or people who are responsible for all this and inaction, are taking pictures and showing that they are doing something. It's a thing and morale, a thing, let me say, the notions of life and all that we're in, but I just think that after this pathetic story of six, seven hours, I think we should just make one conclusion, everything else, believe me, it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21874	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't have the right to a replica, so here's the thing, since it hasn't been heard from her, I didn't mean to answer, and here I am, since no one's said it today, it's common in this House, but good. To go, a colleague went what to do, it always happens, as soon as they see us being reported from the SNSD on display they leave. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Now so am I. Although I have, it's not right now, I'm not important, I'm health issues, and I listen to them. And I'm not going to add this 6 minutes and 20 seconds to that earlier presentation, but I'm talking today about the law that we voted here in 2008 for that they didn't launch any change and supplement initiative if it didn't suit them, and with us right then, I was an MP, without even a single remark the SDS MPs at the time even influenced us to pass that law. We were just fighting, I remember perfectly, that it's called frame, because here everything that's frame can somehow be swallowed, and what's really a prefix of BiH is hard to do, said the distinguished Marković colleague. And no 89 should be pissed at us, that's it. And as my colleague Ljubić said, and they were angry with him, so is BiH, now these prefixes you added are not necessary, we all know what he is. We here today at least talked about what we're going to do and how much we're going to do together with the institutions, as soon as possible, to help these people. Today we are talking about floods, about accidents, not about some law that was passed in 2008, I repeat, and no one has launched its changes and additions. And now they've remembered, and as some criminal charges they'll file against. Against whom? They have to go against them first. If that happens then I'll run against myself, if it was a bad law, I don't think so. So, not to be additionally interested in this people, and I'm very interested in this table, which is what the esteemed Deputy Ministry of Security has prepared, who's here as much as he's given? This is how it is right now, there may be more donor resources coming in, but this is a drop of water in the sea of our problems and the necessary resources to help these people. That's how much I want to contribute to this Parliament's work, and I have to look back, I don't know who these people are on the left and who the minister is here, who the chairman is, who the deputies are. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21878	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21879	I respect you really, and I will try to make sure that what I say doesn't cause replication and I know you don't have any more, so I'll try to explain to you that everything you said was wrong, or you don't understand what I said. When I mentioned criminal charges, I did not mention criminal charges for the people who passed this Law, but for the people who did not respect this Framework Law. So you obviously didn't listen to what I was saying. Secondly, you mention the politics and the chiefs of Šeković, Bratunca, SDS Šeković, SDS Bratunac, SDS Doboj, SDS Bijeljina, those who walk and they are all SDS. Well, it's not our fault we took all these municipalities and local government in 2012. Thirdly, here I am not going to speak some rude language, that you were wrong and you were not telling the truth, since my colleague Pandurević did not have the right to replicate, she did not take an official car to Bratunac but took her private car.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21880	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21881	Mr. President, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, the remaining ministers. By the way, I ask present and public services to detect from which political options these remaining ministers are here and from which political options are those that have left the battlefield. After my colleague Lozančić's discussion, we have, in some ways, become more useful to all of us in this time. We have put as much into focus as is essential, and this is this Framework Law which is really a framework for action in these crisis situations. Of course, if we promote how, looking at the visor, the course of what was prescribed by this Law, how they acted, how effective were individual bodies that, I repeat, had 91 roles in this Law, we can very simply notice that the body that had a key role was, in full, as I say, completely inadequate action. This Coordination Body, if I understand correctly, has failed to make a single meeting. Of course, then, even this information that has been provided to us and which has been shared with the MPs could not have been something of particular quality, because there was simply no condition for it to be more quality than it is. Accordingly, I would like to give recognition to the Council of Ministers who reacted pro-promisedly, respecting the procedure prescribed by law and sticking strictly to it. I don't know if I should remind myself that the most important definition of democracy is the one where there's a sign of equality between it and the procedure. Taking into account also the fact that the Coordination Body of the Council of Ministers and who needed it, which was to be serviced in a manner to timely and relevant information related to everything that had happened since 14 May or 15 May here, did not actually play its role, not even close to what was expected, necessary and necessary. I just want to make it very brief, because we apologized and I don't want to repeat myself, but it's indicative, for example. that we've lost our status, I don't know, an elemental accident or a declared state of emergency, for reasons that are quite mystic. By law, the Council of Ministers declares the state of emergency, this extraordinary, of course, under allegations, on a proposal or the Co-ordination Council or the government of the entity, or the Government of the Brcko District. From the reasons that are obvious, because the koordinacijski Body has not met at all, and of course there is no proposal from that level, but I am completely unclear that such a proposal has not come from the entity government. Here, I may have had some needs in certain moments to react with replicas, I abstained, but some things just didn't feel right to shut up. Were there any praises being made to some, some of the Armed Forces institutions in the Ministry of Defence, etc.? Well, I'd ask a question that's not rhetorical. Could the Armed Forces helicopter, therefore one of the few in office, have been more useful for a more humane purpose than driving ministers and members of the Presidency, and, of course, their simultaneous display of our public services? By the way, of course, the philosophy of those of our public, this public, you realize, of course, by quotes, public services, is very simple, they do not follow events and it has been observed by a number of colleagues in the debates, they follow politicians. And it best speaks of how many public services they are, and how much political services are in service of certain policy options, which we see or how we will see, perhaps for these reasons, are struggling to keep this poor and cartoon system of public information that exists with us. In the end, I don't really know what to do with the conclusions. The amount of conclusions absolutely corresponds to the time we spent discussing this important topic and the interest that we all showed, but I don't know whether it corresponds with real state and real possibilities and real needs. Because we have to understand and I hope that we realize that, if we were actually in the process, if the process hadn't been completed and that this Information was, and if it were better, it would still be incomplete. And maybe tomorrow some new information would deny some of the things contained in it or might be contained in it, and we base our conclusions and, of course, it's only possible, on the information that is available to us and presented to us. And in that sense, perhaps just here is an idea or a proposal for the College to take on the obligation to value all these conclusions proposals, taking into account some of these normal criteria such as reality and priority, or urgency in this situation, and then offer us something that will be as, so harmonised and that it will really be in a function where all these conclusions are complete and want to be. Thank you. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21882	Thank you. A colleague, Šefik Džaferović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21883	Oh, Mr. Chairman, I just need to say a few words. I mean, it's sadder to listen to the excuses of those who didn't respond at a given moment, let's say by argument, they didn't even respond, than they sat on a helicopter and drove away, so they took that helicopter to someone else who needed it more. I mean, it's sad to hear that kind of argument. I'm obliged here to say, so I know that day is the Secretary of Defense, because I've been in touch, I had a plan to fly to Maglai. A very risky flight was requested from Maglaj, when EUFOR helicopters failed to fly at all, and a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Izetbegović, sat on it and returned to Vranduk because of the weather problems. Attack now, that act, like you were driving a helicopter while others were yelling for, I don't think that's right. And a day or two after that, it went back to the people of the car, when it could have been gone. I beg you, don't make excuses for something that can't be justified. So, to know, I think the highest officials should have left, had to leave the heads of state, the government, had to go amongst the people to see what was going on, what had to be done. And I mean, it's sad today all day, already a few debaters, I kept my mouth shut all the time, and I finally had to react for this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21884	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević needs to make a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21885	I'll be very brief. Of course, I'm not defending anything. I'm merely suggesting that this helicopter at those times could certainly, in my humble opinion, be much more useful and for much more humane purposes than it was used. But of course it's the right for everyone to think differently. Okay, I won't go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21886	And, dear colleague, Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21887	I thank the chairman. Well, even though I was kind of early in the day, was this a replica, 93 [[no microphone turned on]] And it's going to be okay, and I think it will be, I tried to start the debate with one replica in a way to express my position, but it's obvious that I haven't succeeded in that, because what has been done in the past few days has been continued by many actors today and no one here has been able to convince that this is not the time for it and that it needs to change the relationship and has proved as many times so far that the party is more important than both the country and the neighbour and the situation and the disaster and that it continues in that manner. I didn't think I'd have to comment on the manipulation of the last days that was staged in which many participated, unfortunately the media did. It was tragic to see the same media at the same event, and completely opposed reports. I asked them several times how it happened that people saw everything with their own eyes, their cameras, and they had quite different reports, and different reports of what else would contribute than full service to the people, no, no, not naming, without commenting on someone there had a task to manipulate or one, second or third. And then we wonder what's happening to us, but it's not their fault that they're good at anything, they're good at reporting, and the people are looking at three to four media houses and they're totally weird, and they don't know what's going on, even at the time of that disaster, we haven't even been able to get objective information, because of course they've all been under some kind of influence. I thought today I wouldn't have to talk about the sad facts that several cameramen and journalists in boots broke down to wait for some unfortunate MP who carried a loaf of bread under the mouse and two liters of milk and appeared and who had not appeared anywhere for three years and when his place was not to give him an unfortunate statement and to say that he was the savior of Mojsije and that it would be. Does this mean that the one who showed up that everyone else was nowhere and didn't participate in anything? It was tragic to send exclusively and exclusively political messages for the sake of the upcoming elections, not some real need to, to help the people because it made it known to others that no one had helped anyone except those who were on TV and who were photographed. It was sad to see these people, and we know their engagement in some other places where they should make their contribution they didn't, they didn't give it. And I'm just going to tell you one detail that I've been trying not to talk about and that I didn't think I'd have to mention, but now I'm going to have to mention it for manipulation, for sad stories today, and false and false stories and messages. We're from Prnjavor, and it's ugly now that I have to say, and so far it's not registered and it's not told to anyone, we filled up a full-scale tow truck and drove it to the head of the municipality of Šekovići, who is from the SDS. Our only condition was that no one knew about it, that there were no cameras and no pictures. The man was first shocked, and then he opened his soul and told about the problem he was in, and the accompanying one could see what the problem was. Our condition was to be that man and our condition was to be this area because we saw that it was a disaster because man said that he was weak, he doesn't know for what reasons, and he's in a difficult problem. And today we heard the ugly messages that no one came to the Šekovics. So, despite the fact that no one is talking about it, I had to say it now, and you see how hollow the story is and the ugly story is, how nasty it is to be a nicknamer from the East and to talk about how someone is at risk, and how nobody's coming to him, and how it's easy to break it down, here's how easy it is to break it down because it's not true, because it's also threatened people and Šamc and Šeković and Doboj and it's very, I'm disgusted by all the political parties and I'm telling you right now it was from my political party of those who didn't understand the moment, who thought that it was time, that this picture with a loaf of bread would bring it to him, but it won't bring him anything, it will only bring him judgment and those who understand the thing will know well why that picture came. It is not disputed that those who are obliged to take pictures of the mayors of the municipalities, chiefs of staff, those who saved, ministers, presidents, heads of various bodies who were in charge, that is their job, and that is their obligation. But it was pathetic and sad to see the manipulations of those who were not bound by it, the presidents of political parties, the leaders in an attempt, those who sought floods looking for passages for not knowing any other political goals either. I thought I'd get a chance to avoid talking about it today 94, like I haven't talked about in the last few days, but I had to say that because it's the only way to break the manipulation. I see from the remarks of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers that some are trying to give to the joint institutions of those powers that they do not have, and today, chairing at one point said it and I really support it, don't make him a prime minister, the Prime Minister and don't give him those powers that he doesn't have. And don't try to solve all the problems here when it's not. It clearly says in the documents what is the solution to the problem here, and what is at all the other levels that will be discussed, because I saw today, although this is just the beginning of the process of analysis, that many have already made decisions and today have condemned who is not good, who has not, not even waiting for any reports, none, you have the authority of entities here, the jurisdiction of municipalities, I don't know what already, but there is no waiting there, because many have agreed that this information is just the beginning of the information, we wait for the records, we wait for the lists, we wait for the estimates, only then can we speak in general. When it comes to the Armed Forces and I see some of the RS resist celebrating the Armed Forces of BiH, do you think that the RS Army remains so that it will not help its people more and better and more significantly. Do you think the Armed Forces of BiH don't cost us over 300 million and are obliged to do so? The gratitude of those who do not owe, I am willing to thank the Rafters of the Horse, they were not obliged to come and they came, those to whom it was a job do not thank them very much, for it is too expensive, because it is too expensive. And a lot of other things, I'm saying that for the last few days because you've been trying to abuse it into creating political processes in BiH, it's ugly, it's not supposed to work and it's impossible to do, it's impossible to do. Abuse of solidarity for this purpose is not good, the people here have been solid for hundreds of years, and they have changed both states and options and processes and neither do I..., will not run out of solidarity, but at the same time they will not agree to change some of their beliefs and views or call it what you will and should not do. We have defined certain regulations, procedures, laws and nothing other than that, wishes should be left for some other debates. When it comes to what we have said is the second part of the story, which is the need to collect, to solve these people's problems, everyone said today, it is clear to everyone that they will need huge financial resources, funds that clearly won't come from the world, I am here pessimistic, I don't think Europe is correct, I am now saying my personal position, I see that, let's say, European officials, unlike the officials of Turkey who did not..., who helped BiH without asking questions. And I see that some officials from Europe have tied it to a European path, to our views, for I don't know, it's not right in an accident to tie it up, but well let's keep it for some analysis. It's going to be more important here what we've done and what resources we have in the next period and how we're going to get ahead of those donors. With this kind of money spending in joint institutions, we're going to have a very hard time going out with donors, with this kind of waste of money, with these kinds of salaries in joint institutions, with these amounts for various needs, we're going to have a hard time justifying the demands of donors for money, because people know what we're doing. If one of our agencies spends 10 million marks completely unnecessaryly, although earlier people have avoided a debate on the subject now they won't be able to avoid it, now it's a waste, in these conditions it's now a waste of money. And it will be a serious topic in the coming period, and I expect the Council of Ministers to succeed in this new time to set things exactly according to a number of today's requests for redistribution of funds that this unnecessary spending of money is directed at these needs because we are not going to get the money we expect from the world, unfortunately that's a fact, I'm saying it as a personal point of view and in spite of what kind we are, the question to which we deserve to be supported without any, without any backup. It'll be all on the wallpaper, there'll be all these mayors of municipalities who spent the budget reserve without even saying where they spent it, you've got mayors of municipalities who spend 200 grand a year on money for no, that Bog saves you for what, it'll all be on the wallpaper now, as will be the funds of 95.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21889	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21890	I end up, as will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's funds and joint institutions and all, if that chief who is now complaining and found a hole in his budget of 300,000 he can't explain, he'll have to explain. And everyone, so I said today at the beginning, doesn't need anyone to look here just one side of the story, there's a lot of us on some way to answer for all of this and it needs to be rational and try to find the best way out and some common denominator to help these people and solve this trouble, and all the other questions should be left for some better days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21891	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21892	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've been going through these conclusions a little bit, or there are a lot of these conclusions here, so I wanted to suggest something to Mr. Ljubić and Mrs. Majkić. I think because of the disaster or the accident that hit us we must not compromise the return process and I would ask here that these conclusions under number one seem to me to Mr. Ljubić, who does not listen to me, and here he listens, Mrs. Majkić, I don't know what the number of conclusions is, to draw those conclusions. Because the return process is one thing, we've done the Strategy and we've provided the funds, we need to do that story. And these are people who are in need and ultimately we have defined some time in which this process of return should be completed. And why take these funds to solve these problems, we may at some stage, this because I know here's a concrete Chinese loan that he's in a further, further phase, maybe prefer these people from this field if they applied to get funds under some more favourable conditions planned, but ope as returnees through this loan. But in any case, because of the process that we are currently having and which is the problem, we are jeopardizing the process of returning. And as for these Rafters from the Cavalry, they're a little bit left, they should've been doing more work here, and that's what I'm going to look into, that's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Kalabić, I didn't know I was going to have to replicate it, but the replica in that part is whether someone was on a helicopter driving around Bosnia and watching what they were going to land to see how progégés and help, and someone was flying to Belgrade, and I don't know what he was going to go to Belgrade, so that's what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21893	All right, I'd like to ask, all those who still have this right to replication to apply. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21894	Thank you. 96 Dear colleagues and colleagues I would indeed ask, since we have used so much time today and we have heard many MPs, I am interested that, if the matter were to be touched safely and in that part, today we have the opportunity to hear many from the Council of Ministers, but I would also ask the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to be able to..., a few sentences to tell us how you see it all together, because I think it would be? [[Common discussion]] Indeed, no, but the man came and I think it would be fair for the minister to hear it, so I would ask the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21896	Wait a minute, wait a minute, dear colleague Saša Bursać's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21897	Well, here's all I have to do is work with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21898	They told me they had, that you had two, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21899	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21900	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21901	I don't know. Check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21902	The secretary says it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21903	I counted myself today, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21904	You had two, don't. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, you didn't have one.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21905	I'm thinking about how to use both remaining replicas, can I replicate myself. Uh, joke aside because I don't have any other options, this one, but I would like to thank the president for asking us to sign up through the replicas. Uh, I'm using this opportunity, so I suggest one conclusion, I've given up the promise that I won't suggest one, since no one has suggested in this forest conclusions, and I think it's very important and very urgent and very urgent. 97 So, and he would vote – To commit the Council of Ministers to ensure the functioning of the Coordination Council established in accordance with the Framework Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in BiH, and to make the necessary decisions in accordance with the provisions of the same Act. Unless the functioning of this Coordination Body is ensured, we cannot either this Parliament, nor the Council of Ministers envied the governments of the entity or Brcko District to seek a rise in the natural disaster at BiH level, and this Coordination Council should be able to influence it. I remind this especially because of the fact that the Council of Ministers of many other decisions that we expect them to make, this one, cannot make, so it cannot make without the declaration of a natural disaster at BiH level. In these other decisions that I have said here, I mean that the Council of Ministers will recently, and I am not..., ensure mechanizan whether through the Co-ordination Council or in some other way to declare the state of the natural disaster at BiH level to create legal assumptions that it can act in these situations. That's the proposal I'm gonna make this one for a plea. And otherwise I suggest, in addition to this conclusion, that we deliver all these conclusions, we deliver all the proposals to the Council of Ministers, so with this, it means that we consider them, whether the Council of Ministers will, I would say that in the Council of Ministers, I have used the functioning of this Coordination Council in which we have representatives of all levels of government, so we see what's real. We can, in my opinion, have good, fine wishes, but let's see realistically, let the Coordination Council consider it and let the Council of Ministers, uh, we can meet and I didn't want this to be a conclusion on purpose, because I don't want to propose unreal deadlines, this is a real deadline of 24 hours, and this was supposed to be yesterday, the day before 15 days ago, so this means that in the speedier surveillance of the College of the House, we can meet this whenever requested by the Council of Ministers within 24 hours and bring it in, because I believe, I want to believe that everyone has proposed conclusions to ensure the better solution to these accumulated problems. Let's get to the conclusions that we'll adopt in the package and then we'll all go into realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21906	Are there any other colleagues and colleagues? If there's any more, come in. Well, I could do that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21907	The word has a deputy, that is, the chairman of Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21908	Denise're not the chairman yet. I thank you, and I'm sorry that I gave my colleague Lozančić my word, because what he suggested was on point three, but obviously we were in college together, and we're thinking the same thing, so I'm going to make it worse at the end of this whole thing. Obviously, it couldn't have been held before the Parliament's session was held, and I don't think it should have been held before, because some of us couldn't physically get out of the apartment, let alone come, and some of us couldn't get in the way of communication at all. And I think we needed more citizens in the places where we were our neighbors, relatives, than sitting here, and he proved it today. Not only could she not prepare herself for such a short time of information, but obviously we were both tense and emotional overrun to allow cold heads to and must think about these problems concerning all BiH residents. So all those remarks about how we were supposed to sit here and think about falling into the water. And about how we should continue this session, I call on you that if our citizens can in their apartments survive all night, we can, too, if we need to sit in the White Hall here dry all night. On the other hand, when they spoke here about a system that works or does not work in BiH, what you expected, what you expected after the blockade of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, after a demonstration in the centre of Sarajevo and the burning of the presidency building when we were here and we discussed these reports and realized that the system in BiH and the institutions had not functioned, what you expected after such an accident to work in BiH. And then, you remember, it was also proposed by me and that the trust and this leadership of Parliament and the Council of Ministers and other institutions were then mentioned to the prosecutors, if they mentioned anyone on duty, what they were doing in these days of flood, who wrote a report on their work on who this is for so far should be responsible. Did we talk about it? No, we didn't talk about it. I'll only talk about what we've all been talking about all day, and here's something we forgot to mention. White and Black Book exists in BiH, is there a red book? A red book that should be a guideline for disaster situations and natural disasters. We do not need fellow heroes in the positions of executive bodies and in the places leading those institutions, we need people who will open that book and say at that and that moment for the chairman and member of the Presidency is that place, for each individual who corresponds or at that moment performs his duties is that and then after that, we finish and close that book and we say who has not fulfilled his tasks. No system, the books in the countries that are arranged have books for anyone who corresponds to an important function to open that book and where it is written, and experts before these accidents and people from work wrote what anyone should do at any moment. What are we talking about? About the system, we're talking about systems that someone didn't write in the book about how these systems would complement each other to function, that's what I'm talking about. And the hero of BiH colleagues and colleagues has always been and will always be, the honor of those people who have shown themselves, and those who have led the executive authorities and those who have tried to portray themselves as heroes and those who were alone in these crisis situations to get Bosnia and the citizens out of the accident, I think it is better that they made a red book and wrote what everyone should do in this country, rather than playing heroes. At this point, I want to express my condolences to all the families who have lost their loved ones in Serbia, we have already said that about BiH, and I think that we should..., in Croatia, do not know if there have been any such but I know that there have been a lot of floods and that we should call from this place, the institutions or parliaments of these countries to work together to overcome the disaster that has hit us and to work together to make the preconditions that this does not happen, because I think it is the task of this Parliament to do so. And under three, which I mentioned my colleague Lozančić beat me to it, there are over 40 conclusions. It would be ugly if we voted on this subject as a matter of principle, this is the opposition, this is the position. These members of the College are from opposition or position, so they will now, and through a sieve of position, beg, rather than task the Council of Ministers to take all the conclusions into account by the next session, and that the taxing conclusion is respected, not respected, the reason – it is impossible to respect because the law is not adopted and so on. Every single one. I know it's a job, but I think the best solution to this situation in which we now vote on 45 conclusions, not only to be a big deal, but I think it would be unlegal to anyone who has well-intentioned the conclusion. And so, I think it would be good to keep working, especially if we have laws that require our work today, to show that we are responsible and there's no need to build an extended college to think about it, and then we'll see by which hours of the night we'll be able to finish this job that's ahead of us. Thank you. Here you go, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21909	So, I agree and I think that Parliament can accept that everything proposed today as a conclusion goes away with this stenogram of the Council of Ministers, but it is known that these are suggestions that are not the conclusions adopted by Parliament, so that is what I want to stress. So, none of them have adopted Parliament, but these are suggestions, these are our proposals, so let the Council of Ministers consider it all together, but to them there is no obligation as to adopted conclusions, so that is one thing. So, all that's useful, I have no doubt that they'll accept this one. And secondly, I agree that we continue to work we have valid laws, we have deadlines, we have obligations, even without a break, let's do some law and we'll take a break, then we'll take a little rest...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21910	That is your personal opinion, I have spoken here and I am asking if anyone has any objection to these suggestions to say, I will call on my extended colleagues and consider it and propose it to Parliament. However, the conclusion I would like to suggest is that all discussions, together with the proposed conclusions, be referred to the Council of Ministers to consider them at the next session of Parliament, to ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21913	... With the Council of Ministers' opinion on every... [[no microphone turned on]] [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21914	Can we vote on that conclusion to absorb this item of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21915	... I can just... never mind business is... [[no microphone turned on]] 100
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21916	Business colleague Božo Ljubić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21917	Here is to be neither a replica nor a business one, in fact, I have said in my last conclusion – I suggest that all the conclusions that are the result of the debate and presented by representatives and clubs in the House of Representatives guide the Council of Ministers of BiH to analyse and sublime them to full measures aimed at eliminating the consequences of this natural disaster. Therefore [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21918	Okay, is there any need now to take a break to formulate these conclusions or do you want to accept the conclusion that I have formulated? [[Common discussion]] Please, can you vote? Please prepare for the vote, we vote for the proposal for my conclusion. For 34, there were no abstentions. I find this conclusion adopted and one abstention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21922	I'm not in agreement, I'm telling you right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21923	Okay. Then please take a break for five minutes, let's discuss this. 101 [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. Do we have a quorum? I've been informed by the secretary that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. I quote - Member of the 27th position of the chairperson under f) restricts the duration of the debate on one or more issues, if necessary, in order to ensure that the adopted agenda is considered as a whole. Accordingly, I'm limiting the hearing to three minutes. Dear Colg, Dušanka Majkić, come in. On behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21925	...to turn this on, for a stenogram. On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21926	On behalf of the HDZ Club, a half-hour break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. Dear colleague Franjičević, do you need to explain your break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21928	Well, I think it's obvious that there are certain points in the adopted agenda, which require urgency,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21929	Celebrate, please wait we have a quorum with you. kolega Jovičić, can you wait, we have a quorum with you, so someone can just come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21930	So I suggest we do it according to the rules you said, Mr. President, until including the 7th item of the agenda. Yes, including the sixth item of the agenda, and that after the absorption of that point, we take a little longer off and that I don't know when, it's up to you in the College to determine, if it could be a continuation of this session, so that we can ensure first normal conditions, because some of the points that follow after that are very important to some of us and we want those important, important points to discuss in normal minutes and in normal times, which will not involve the exclusion of the media etc. If you know what I mean. So, the proposal is to work on these rules that you said, to include the 6th point and then to do, to interrupt the session and, of course, I suggest that, after the debate is over on the 6th point of the agenda, that the adopted conclusion be done and the vote on the points of the agenda that we have done by then. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21931	Thank you. Any other suggestions? Here, I can do it. I thank the First Deputy Chairman. In fact, I think it is okay for the president of the HDZ Club to warn us that there are points of the agenda for which they are interested, to process at the beginning of the session with the presence of the media and adequately escort, but we have other business opportunities, and that is to say that beyond this break, I expect that this break to be at the next item of the agenda and up to that point of the agenda, in case your proposal is not accepted, to suggest when the debate on this item of the agenda opens, that it be postponed for another session. We have done this several times and I do not see any reason for this particular item of the agenda, and I am taking advantage of the opportunity to read it, it is about – The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, we are discussing at one of the next sessions. You forget that in addition to having the interest of discussing it here according to the proposal of some other parties, and based on the letters we received from MONEYVAL, points that are very important to the 6th, there is also a consensus in the College on the important points of the agenda. So I suggest that we continue to work on this agenda point today, or on a proposal to end the agenda, to vote when the agenda comes, which means the 8th point of the agenda, to postpone the debate, so that we put it for another session and postpone the debate in the way you asked and do what the citizens of BiH expect us to do, which is to do until we finish the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21932	Wait a minute, can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21933	Of course, first deputy chairman, colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21934	I don't know on what basis the president has concluded that citizens expect us to work until the end of the agenda. I mean, what kind of communication is that, to put it that he has with the citizens, that he can say that?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21935	Thank you. Since we didn't have any more suggestions, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21936	Well, I didn't mean to react, but I don't think this comment by Mr. Ljubić is appropriate. In recent times, the College has taken us with too many exhibitions, so we've had various movements, various sessions, various meetings and so forth, and it's not exactly up to you to teach lessons, when you're asking for more wishes for these media presentations, which I respect, but besides all that, because if I were to tell you what we've heard now, let's not today, let's not tomorrow, these travel there, these travel here, on various sides, you should have solved it somehow in the College. We've made some decision here to work, to respect, not to insist on these 103 points that they can be meant, delayed, we don't insist on going to someone now, which would say, the requirement to have this point at some point when it suits someone, we don't mind. But we're against it, if it's meant not to work tonight, it bothers us. So we don't have to say now, but we want tonight when there isn't, let it be the media, let it be, but I have to tell you, my impression, you've had too much of an exhibition from the College in the last 3-4 months, in order to swallow every bit, let's just add that up a little bit to something and do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21937	Thank you. I put it to the vote, the first proposal of my colleague Franjičević, to work until the 6th point of the agenda, as I understand it, including 6th to 7th, and then to vote on these points of the agenda afterwards. Is it all right? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 17, versus 10, abstention 1, we don't have enough entity majority for this proposal. The alignment is not possible because there are no colleagues, Denis Bećirović. We move on to the proposal I suggested, to vote on it. Here's your business.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21938	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. It's well known to you, I know you know the Rules of Procedure well. And here was the proposal meaning concrete, to carry out the debate by the 6th point and the statement, and then to interrupt the session or to decide on a follow-up. Since we don't have a decision on that proposal, we don't have the conditions to continue,...a concrete proposal, so. It's not our responsibility that the College can't agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21939	Please, let us conduct the session. If the second proposal gets the right majority, we have a decision to keep working. So I put my proposal to the vote, which is that we continue to work towards the points of the adopted agenda. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 24, against three, against four, there were no abstentions. I find that this proposal has been adopted. Let's go to point four, Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the BiH Public Procurement Act following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure A colleague of Dušanka Majkić answered. 104 I would like to remind you that there is a limited debate for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21941	Well, I don't have much to say, it's short. You are aware that we adopted the Law on Public Procurement, whose application was from 01.01.2015. You are also aware that last year we adopted the amendments to the old Public Procurement Act, in such a way that, by analogy with the Public Procurement Agency, the Office was formed to discuss complaints in Banja Luka and Mostar which have the authority to make decisions up to 800,000. A, the office for examining complaints above 800,000 for all public procurements related to BiH and Brcko District institutions. So, you know that we had a legal vacuum and you know that right now, at this point, a large number of cases stand because these two offices are not yet formed and will take time to form them. I suggest that we also adopt an emergency decision and adopt this law, because without it, it cannot be done any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21942	Thank you. No more logs, moving to agenda five, Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted in 23.05 with an urgent request for consideration and a new bill was submitted on 27.05., which was previously withdrawn on 23.05. I'm opening a request debate. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21944	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21945	I'm taking a half-hour break. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Business intervention, not before I took a break. The rules of procedure are strictly imposed,............................................................................ 105 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21949	I thank the Honorable President. I will remind you once again that we have violated the provisions of Article 80 when we made a statement on the proposal of our esteemed colleague Mate Franjičević. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. _________(?) I can't hear you. It's not up to me to the microphone. So, once again, I will remind you that on the occasion of a statement on the proposal for a conclusion, an esteemed colleague, Mate Franjičević, we have violated Article 80. The Rules of Procedure, since we have not completed the pre-accession statement, means the interruption of the work of this session, after the end of the 6th item of the agenda and after the end of the declaration of the working points of the agenda. I beg you regardless of the reasons that govern anyone, we can do whatever we want. It is not good for us to enter the sphere of violation of Posovnik Law or the Constitution, I am for this House to work much more and more often than it does and I have no objection to having a session every day, as far as I'm concerned, it can do it right now tomorrow. I think that every agenda item deserves proper treatment, deserves proper consideration, deserves proper debate and deserves appropriate conditions for and discussion and decision-making under that agenda item. So there's no more or less important agenda points. Today I spent a lot of time at a particularly important item on the agenda and I am not sorry that we spent all day arguing, if nothing to get to know ourselves and the entire public about our perceptions of the situation in which BiH is. So, believing both, both me and my colleagues at the club, that these points to the 6th point are, in conclusion, with the 6th point, really urgent, urgent points and procedures that are envisaged, we are prepared to support that procedure. I'm sorry we haven't adopted both of these laws before, but that's a different story now. So we're ready, but there's really no need, so there's no need for us today to exhaust ourselves by proving any numerical supremacy. 106 So, I am asking you and calling for us to come forward again, so that we can re-propose the proposal, that today's session will end the dissipation and the conclusion of the 6th point, the established agenda, and I'll add, here's to be more specific. I propose that within the same conclusion, there be a proposal and a conclusion that the House's session on the remaining points of the agenda continues on Tuesday, on June 3rd of this year at 10:00 in this same hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21951	The word has the chairman of the House, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21952	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Let me remind you that within the 3rd point of the agenda at the end of my discussion I said and suggested this House that we continue to work. That many citizens cannot take their right, everyone in BiH tonight may not sleep in their homes but who knows which places, and that it is our duty to finish this session. Afterwards, I asked anyone if they had a request to hold an extended college or had any other suggestions and no one answered. A closed debate, an open debate on the next item of agenda 4 followed by the president of the HDZ Club asking for a break. And out of respect for the HDZ classmates, I put their proposal first on the vote, although I should have put my same proposal in all procedures because I didn't think it was necessary to vote on it because no one had objected. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, it has come out to you and then proposed that when this item of the agenda comes, and we could, with these two breaks that are an hour, but come to your agenda point, suggest that the debate be postponed for the next session. And this House would accept that. You didn't accept that either. For this reason, I will not make your motion for a vote, but I will make a proposal to ask this dom – did the chairman violate the Rules of Procedure when he moved to vote on my agenda? Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go. /no record/ We are voting on this since you stated that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 80, I ask the dom if it agrees that the Chairman has violated the Rules of Procedure and Article 80. If Dom says I am, then I'll ask him to.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21954	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21955	Yeah, so they did.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21956	No microphone 107 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21957	Okay. I ask Dom if he believes that the chairman has violated Rule 80? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For seven against 26, there were no abstentions. I find that dom has confirmed that the chairman has not broken the Rules of Procedure. So we're at point 5. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the bill on the prevention of money laundering and financing of a terrorist organisation. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21958	The question, here's the dom decided, I don't want to discuss the decisions of the House, just to find out that you didn't violate the Rules of Procedure at the previous point. That doesn't mean I'm pulling the proposal to get Dom back to the question I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21959	Of course, since we've voted already on my proposal to continue to work towards a set agenda, I can't put your proposal to a vote, but we're moving on to the agenda points. Since no one answered, I'm closing the debate and we're moving to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21961	This is past, I didn't expect this speed to pass, so I wanted to say, was she going to say something about the law from the previous point, but obviously I wasn't careful enough, so that's how it happened. I must say that we will not support this law for the reason that, when this Law failed the last time we tried very hard to bring it to the same level that we managed to bring the Money Laundering Act and all the remarks we had failed to install any one. Since the Ministry of Justice has shown no interest in any co-operation on the plan, since the institutions of the RS could not engage and participate in this important law, since it treats the parts already provided for by the Criminal Law of the RS, these are sufficient elements that we do not vote for this Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21962	Thank you. 108 Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21963	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs. Well, you see, this law is part of the MONEYVAL package along with the previous law. In any case, I appreciate the effort that has been made to bring the amendments submitted under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, and I am pleased that we have come to the stage when such a law can be adopted in an emergency procedure, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the deadline that BiH has ahead of it is for the adoption of amendments to the Criminal Law, which treat the same area, 31st if I am not mistaken, 05th and that the assessment of non-compliance, i.e. the situation is already being prepared and what is said on the automatic pilot. 01.06. will be published unless we adopt this Act. What it means and what the consequences are, it would have been better if he had come out about it, so a few words were said by the promoter. But from what I know as a member of the BiH delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and here is my colleague Marković and colleague Dervoz, this is, I apologize for not listing everyone else, this is a very, very serious matter and I fear that in a situation where we are as a country as a whole, which we have talked about most of the day, I am afraid that we will experience another disaster this time financially if we fail to do this within the time limit that is foreseen. So, I don't plead to it, nor call on colleagues and colleagues because I see that there is opposition to this text of the Law, to do so today, but I urge you to, if you think anything about adopting this law in the first reading and to try to make an additional effort these next few days to agree on the amendment, as agreed on by the previous law, such as the prepared text, as there was a goodwill and a restoring ministry and all those who participated in this process, but I can't help but draw attention to what this means. So that's my discussion and my request to reconsider what we can all do together to adopt this. Believe me, when it comes to this sort of thing, I understand that, I understand the attitudes,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21964	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21965	I understand, I'm sorry, I'm going to end up, and I understand the opposition, but try to understand what this means to all of us, especially given these consequences of the catastrophic that we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21966	Thank you. Comrades and fellow MPs, please listen to just a few notes. Namely, here is the bill of law in the short procedure. Today, we plead whether or not we accept a brief procedure. Only in the next assembly can we vote on whether we will vote on the law in the first reading. There are two options, one option means that the debates are not about the essence of the law, because today we are discussing and voting only on a shortened procedure. That the Council of Ministers withdraws this Law and proposes it at the next session by emergency procedure much better than to discuss it only at the next session by regular procedure. Don't talk about the law tonight, we can just vote whether we accept a shortened procedure or not. 109 Guided by this, I will give my word to all those who have applied, and to the first respected minister, Mr Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21967	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and advocates of this Law are already, at least the second, and perhaps the third time before this esteemed House. Believe me, I'm a responsible man and there's no talking about usurping someone's jurisdiction. I'd like someone to appreciate that there's one point that says that in public. This Law has been done for a long time, and it is in the ranks of really this law that we just passed, so the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. It's exactly the same rank. That you know for sure, here's Mr. Magazinović just said. And I do not know, of course it is up to you to decide what you will do. It's really an emergency for this law to be passed. Why didn't we suggest him on an emergency procedure? So, as minister, I asked it to be an emergency procedure. To insist on a number, therefore ministers from the Council of Ministers, who were not in favour, and believe that no single amendment has proposed and said why this would not be so. If you allow me just one more sentence, if it is, therefore, international trade for people who should be at the level, so in this law, I have no objection to you voting and otherwise, but really this law is too important. Anyway, whatever you think you need to change, but believe me, this law should finally be passed, it's too important for the BiH state, here's why, I don't know, for some 10 days, they don't put us there on some sort of checklist, so the transactions from BiH that can last for weeks, maybe months and eventually we know who will suffer. So, I once again responsibly claim that I have not received, so neither from the Council of Ministers, any member, any amendment that I would not agree with. And now I don't know what's going on right now, really, I'm telling you the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21968	Minister, let us explain to you what is controversial. It is disputed that you have proposed the Law by a shortened procedure 126, and this Parliament today cannot debate the law in first reading, even if it was proposed in a regular procedure they would today vote on the Law in the first reading. We today, according to our business procedure that is complex, obviously you have not consulted with the people who propose these laws, we today only vote on the requirement to shorten the procedure. Please understand that procedures in Parliament are different from procedures in the Council of Ministers. Either you needed the Law by regular procedure to propose or you needed an emergency procedure. I understand that it is not agreed in the Council of Ministers to be urgent, but even a regular procedure would reduce today's debate. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21969	That's all I'm saying to my colleague Magazinović. We took care of it and a good part of the members who were part of this Penal Code, the proposal, we moved to the Money Laundering Act, making sure that the whole was rounded up. So in no way will any member suffer because we haven't adopted it. Besides, I think the RS government sent a letter to MONEYVAL and explained our status and I think some people are unnecessarily raising tensions about it. It's very important to adopt a law on money laundering that defines all these things, and I think 110 that no special consequences will be because we haven't passed the Criminal Law. And the minister has time, so we're talking about procedure, the minister has time if he wants to, and it's three times not enough to tell us what it is, so it was logical for his colleagues to ask at the Council of Ministers why you won't. What's the problem? They'd tell you what I'm saying right now. So, what is this synchronization and conversation between, at the Council of Ministers? So I think we need to decide what to do with this law now, and there's no way he's going through this form.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21970	Mr. Mladen Čavar of the Department of Security asked for a word about this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21971	Ladies and gentlemen, we're all tired, I sleep very little these days. I'll just say a few sentences about this law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities, from the esteemed colleague of Minister Bariša Čolak. Perhaps in the shadow of the problem with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorist activities remains this Criminal Law. So these two laws are 100% in the package, 100%. And MONEYVAL, so that's the body that does it, that was focused on this law that runs my Ministry of Money Laundering. _________(?) What a body. MONEYVAL, so that's cool, so you have MONEYVAL that's the body of the Council of Europe's experts, and there's FATF there some of the group G7 that controls them and that's above them. And they're professionals. There's been a story going on about this money laundering thing for years, a few years, and it's going to be like this, and that's how it's going to be, and that's how it's gonna be for us to get along. The bottom line is that they both have FATF and MONEYAL have some recommendations that require that they meet all countries that want to join a group of civilization countries to be characterised as countries that don't launder money. And now, we've had a lot of, as I would say, disagreements, ignorances, some bad judgments. So they simply have recommendations that we argued about and what this change was yesterday. So they were recommended to, say, have a financial intelligence department. The Financial Intelligence Department and the complete structure dealing with the investigation and prevention and money laundering, it does not have the right to inform anyone about it. Now, colleagues from the RS wanted to end the investigation, so it didn't take too long, asked to put on that clause so that someone couldn't abuse it. But MONEYVAL won't hear about it. So they're not interested, so because he's looking at it like this, he says you can't watch some terrorist for five years who's been undercover and then after five years you want to close that investigation and then inform him that we've been watching you and checking you out, blah, blah, blah. You understand. I mean, I don't know how to explain it anymore, but the point is this one. So, that MONEYVAL, meaning the first step BiH must pass, at the Committee meeting adopted that public statement and the people who worked from BiH at that delegation, they managed to work because the Council of Ministers had an emergency session and ordered a re-proceeded procedure and so on, they did not make it public until 01.06, but by 01.06, this Law that we finally agreed and this Law of the Ministry of Justice must be passed. 111 Do you understand me? And so now we're getting into a situation where some of the processes are going to be out of our control. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21973	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21974	Let's just say I don't see what the problem is to pass the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21975	The problem is that you have not proposed a law in the proper form and this Parliament cannot help you. That's the problem. We're voting on the rule of law procedure of 126, not the essence of the law, my colleague. So you understand that these parliamentarians are working under certain rules that we cannot go beyond that. We understand your problem, but you didn't propose law according to proper procedure. I'm here with the MPs trying to find a way to help you. Dear colleague Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21976	The replica only works the truth. It is true that the MONEYVAL team spoke with our delegation in January when we were in Strasbourg, but their goal and intention of talking to us was a great law on money laundering and financing terrorist organisations. And when they came, they asked why this Law was not adopted, when you would adopt it because BiH is one of the few members of the Council of Europe that did not do so. Then ours, I don't know if Saša or Senad, someone said, along with that going and amending the Criminal Law, he said, so that he would go, but we're interested in this, in some countries going to change some other laws, not just the Criminal that isn't the case with BiH. So their condition under number one of this Law, and the Criminal Law is following a law that goes, which we can discuss either in a regular or some procedure to come up with a good solution. So that's true, and no one said the Criminal Law was in the package with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21977	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21978	This reminds me of last session of the House of Representatives when some of the MPs explained that the Act on Excises where the excise duty on cut tobacco and smoking cigarettes is not the condition of the IMF. So when we lost the tranche, then we grabbed our heads. Now we are in the same situation that someone here in Parliament is interpreting what is or is not the condition of MONEYVAL. I mean, there's no need for us to deal with it, they have documents available to everyone, and it can be read, it doesn't have to be interpreted by Saša, or the Milica, or anyone else. However, let's not just put ourselves in a position to by taking a comfortable interpretation of what it is, which is not a condition, get into a situation where money from a donor conference or any other aid cannot enter BiH, which is also a possibility. Let's not put ourselves in this position to make business harder for commercial banks, and some even shut down in BiH at the moment we are now. I'm just warning, I want this to stay in the stenogram that I've been speaking on this subject and trying to explain to my dear 112 colleagues what kind of serious situation we're in. If you won't, well, I can't change anyone's mind, but it would be important to understand how serious this is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21979	So serious we can break the Rules of Procedure. Tell us how to get out of it. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21980	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you of one situation from 8 to 12 months ago, I can't remember precisely when it was, the Human Rights Commission has proposed to us here amendments to the Criminal Law of BiH which deals with the human trafficking issue. And this law that we have then agreed to bring down here, because there was no other way out, is now contained in these solutions proposed by the Minister of Justice. We in BiH now have a solution in force that the BiH Court of Justice is responsible for human trafficking, total human trafficking and with an INO element and without an INO element. And then an assessment was made within the framework of this team, a strike team to fight human trafficking that BiH's judiciary would be more effective if the BiH Court of Justice, caused some controversy in the application of state law and entity criminal laws. If we separate this from the Court of BiH, we leave only human trafficking with an INO element, and entity criminal laws and courts, human trafficking without an INO element. So this isn't about transferring jurisdiction from entity to state, this is about degerulating a crime and transferring it from state to entity to fight it more effectively. And then I said last time, people, don't do it to deregulate, and before that, we didn't finish the job in entities, because it could happen in the Court of Justice of BiH and that this thing would fail, this had to be synchronised. And as far as I know, ministers, both entities have resolved this issue both the RS and the Federation. They've regulated this, and we're ready to do it in BiH today, so let's finish that reform. And here, to be honest, has added a few things that concern exclusively international conventions and I don't see a single thing compared to that law that was, so... The Ministry of Justice, I don't see a single thing that would concern something called a transfer of jurisdiction. So, I'd tell you honestly, we here have to open up the matter honestly, so here every member needs to be examined, so people disagree, they disagree, let the people of the RS say, the culprits of the RS, is that it or not. I don't mind. I'm just asking you, so please let us be dedicated and settle this issue. We have to deal with this because then the consequences will be as Mr. Magazinović spoke of. That's why, the chairman, I understand the Rules of Procedure, so you said, it says here that we are pleading on the procedure. I would ask the minister only to say here now, the minister to say, until when do we have to adopt this law to avoid negative consequences?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21981	Time. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21982	Here I am done. Chairman, I suggest that we adopt today what we have procedure, that we know what time it is, that we sit within the Constitutional Commission, we review each member, all consult, look, talk to whoever you want, Minister, we from the Commission to finish it, and then we both end the law in both readings. If necessary, if the deadline is 01.06. we will work tomorrow and let the session be the day after tomorrow. I'm just asking that we don't leave this behind, that we stay committed to this. No one in this country can fool anyone, because everyone's smart enough, so there's no such thing as that, and we have to have a solution that we don't have any adverse consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21983	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21984	I'm surprised you don't have a solution to such simple questions. Well, we've manifested today, tonight, that there's no problem with the higher interests of the Rules of Procedure being broken. This House has changed its Rules of Procedure countless times. I suggest the conclusion that the House declares itself, if you please, I don't think you have to allow – the House of Representatives decides that this zakn is being considered today by haste procedure. So, in conclusion, we can change, so we've done countless times, and since this, this law and this one before it, is indeed a law of interest for all BiH citizens, to express that concern for the citizens of BiH by adopting both of these laws now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21985	Thank you. I understand they have the right of people to be angry, but I don't see any reason to elaborate it the way it's elaborated. Please make your point in writing, so I can put it to the vote. Since there are no more reported, distinguished colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21986	I'm looking for a break of 15 minutes to prepare a proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21987	Thank you. Your HDZ Club at this point in the agenda is requesting a 15-minute break. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, please take your seats to determine if we have a quorum to continue this session. 114 Since a break has been sought in front of the HDZ Club, distinguished counterpart Niko Lozančić explains. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21989	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was looking for reasons for a break, I took a break to suggest in writing a conclusion and delivered it to the president of the House. As consultations have been held between all clubs in the House of Representatives in the meantime, I am told in these consultations that a gentlemen's solution has been reached, that the Minister, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, withdraws the request for an emergency procedure, proposes that the law be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure, with the promise that we will hold a statement at today's session in both the first and second readings. With that in mind, I'm withdrawing my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21990	Thank you. Dear Minister, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21991	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm the only thing I could repeat part of what the esteemed representative said, Mr. Lozančić. So here I am withdrawing this requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure. I propose to this House that the law be considered in a regular, regular procedure, so that here we can, today, do, with a guarantee, that today we can conduct the debate both in the first and second readings and get this Law today. Here I thank you if that's the case, and there's no doubt that's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21992	Thank you. Fellow Members and fellow Members, firstly, we will put the proposal of the honourable minister to the vote, whether or not to accept a request for this law to be considered in the ordinary procedure. If we accept it, then I will ask this Parliament to task the Constitutional Commission, to make up a report by the Commission on the principles and constitutional basis of the Law until the vote on the Law in the first reading. If that's how you agree to get out of this, I find it embarrassing, but as far as I can tell, there's a good will to go in that direction. So, first of all, I am putting the vote on whether this Parliament accepts the minister of justice's suggestion that the Law on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH is under regular procedure. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, it wasn't, abstention 1. I konstatuj this request accepted. And I'm also asking the Constitutional Commission to make a report on this. 115 Dear colleague, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21993	Mr. Chairman. So, while this was being prepared, I, as chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission, knowing what the procedure was, expecting Parliament to make such a decision to go into the ordinary procedure, held a session of the Commission, an emergency session of the Commission – Šefik Džaferović chaired by the Commission, then Mato Franjičević, the Commission's deputy chairman, who is present here, Lazar Senad Šepić, a member of the Commission, Denis Bećirović, a member of the Commission and Saša Magazinović, a member of the Commission. We miss two members of the Commission, as far as I can see now, these are Mr. Božo Ljubić, I apologize to Božo for not consulting you, so I didn't consult Mr. Ljubić, so he wasn't there while I was conducting the consultations. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević is missing. We here, therefore, who, please nicely, whom I have listed, would only ask Mr. Božo Ljubić to support this. I apologize to you, indeed, Commissioner, for establishing the existence of a constitutional basis and the conformity of this Law with the Constitution and the legal system of BiH and for supporting the principles of this Law, therefore, as when we act under the law in our first reading. Do you, Mr. Ljubić, just let me ask you now, agree with this?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21994	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21995	So, please, Constitutional Commission, Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21996	Is that okay now? It's all clear to everyone. You just give us a written report.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21997	Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I don't know, I don't have the Secretariat of the Commission here. Who's going to write this to me now, in this situation?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21998	Parlametna Professional Services.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u21999	So please, professionally, arrange the secretary, make me a report. The Commission therefore held an emergency session in this composition, established a constitutional basis and supported the principles of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22000	All right, please, let's not all listen to this technical stuff we have other things to do. I'm closing the debate on this. 116 And we're going to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. MP Denis Bećirović's request to discuss the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law was submitted in the procedure on 26th05 with an urgent request for consideration. I'm opening a motion hearing. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission and opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22003	I would like to propose that both the debate and the statement on this agenda be postponed until the next session of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22004	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. At the request of our colleague, Džaferović, we propose a re-election... You can vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22005	... Give the Šefik another vote. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22006	What are we voting on... 117
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22007	We are voting on counterpart Šefik Džaferović's proposal by counterpart Niko Lozančić to postpone both the debate and the vote on the draft law on BiH's Public Television System. Please prepare to vote at the request of more clubs the proposal is put to the vote again. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 13, against 16, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22008	... Requesting repetition... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22009	Dear counterpart Niko Lozančić in front of the HDZ Club demands a repeat vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 11, against 22, there were no abstentions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] On behalf of the Mixed Club, Mr. Jurišić is seeking a repeat vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 11, against 22, there were no abstentions. Does anyone else need to ask for a repeat? There isn't. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22011	Dear colleagues and colleagues, uh, we've demonstrated a lot today in this House, a lot of concern for the people and citizens of this country, a lot of different procedures, approaches, uh, I thank everyone from the heart for this much concern, for this much correctness, and I don't see the point of still participating in this tape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22012	Thank you, no more reporting for discussion. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on International Legal Assistance in Civil Affairs – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 17 April by the Constitutional Legal Commission on constitutional basis and on the principles delivered by 27.05. 118 I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, children's rights, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22025	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22026	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22027	The Honorable Chairman. Given the full debate on this item of the agenda and the urgency, I suggest that we speak out tonight about another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-05-27-0.u22028	Thank you. In accordance with Article 106(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I ask my Rules of Procedure the House to declare that this bill is being considered immediately and in a second reading. 123 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 26, v. 1, abstention 3. I find that we have decided to consider this law in a second reading. Now we will vote to accept this legislative proposal in a second reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 26, against and restrained by 2. I also find that we adopted this legal proposal in our second reading. Moving to point 7. – The request of MP Denis Bećirović to consider the Bill on the Supplements of the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 18, against 11, abstention 1. I konstatovati there is not enough RS support for an emergency procedure. Since we don't have one member of the Kolegijum, we'll leave our consent in the Constitution for a three-day period. Moving to point 8. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission and opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 22, v. 7, abstention 1. I konstatovati this opinion has not been given, negatively, enough support from the RS and it is going to be agreed in the College. We are voting on the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, which is also negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 20, v. 7, abstention 1. I konstatovati that this opinion is also going to be agreed in the College. Moving to point 9. – Proposal for a law on international legal aid in civil matters – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 22, against 8, there were no abstentions, insufficient support from the RS. I realize this law is going to be agreed in the College. 124 We're going to point 10. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. We vote on the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, given that it was negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 12, against 15. Insufficient support from the Federation of BiH for this negative opinion. He's also going to the College for a match. Moving to point 11. – Proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality. We are voting on the adoption of the Amendments and the addition of the Single Rules. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, there were no abstentions. I find that this proposal has been adopted to amend and supplement the Single Rules. For the previous point, point 10. I find that there was no general majority, it was 12:15, so it's not going to go to the collapsing in the College. Moving to point 12. – Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a framework law on restrictions at the disposal of public funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Niko Lozančić (the emergency procedure law). We're voting on the law in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 16, against 12, there were no abstentions. 2/3 against the RS. I find this law has not been supported. Moving to point 13. – Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a framework law on facilitating employment of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina: MEP Niko Lozančić, by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We're voting in the second round on the short procedure. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 12, against 15, there were no abstentions. This one didn't get the general majority. I find this law has gone into regular procedure. Moving to point 14. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the draft law supplementing the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the draft law in the first reading. 125 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 18, against 12, there were no abstentions. 2/3 against the RS. I find that this law did not receive support in the first reading. Moving to point 15. – The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić on the debate on the Analysis of the provisions of criminal law in Bosnia and Herzegovina which regulates the criminal situation of minors of criminal offences, with a proposal for measures, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH (realising the conclusions of the House of Representatives from the 5th session, held on 05.12.2013). Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 19, v. 8, abstention 3.. I konstatuj, since it wasn't 2/3 against any entity, that this conclusion was adopted. Moving to point 16. – The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Analysis of the provisions of criminal law in Bosnia and Herzegovina which regulates the criminal situation of minors, with a proposal for measures, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH (realising the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 5th session, held on 05.12.2013). We're voting on the adoption of Analysis in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 18, against 11, there were no abstentions. 2/3 of RS is against it. I'm guessing we didn't adopt this analysis. Moving to point 17. – The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative on the extension of the 63rd session of the House of Representatives held on 25.02.2014. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDS Club, the vote again. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 18, against 12, there were no abstentions. I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. Moving to point 18. – The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MP Ante Domazet from the extension of the 63rd session of the House of Representatives held on 25.02.2014. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative in the second round. 126 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 15, versus 8, abstentions 4. I konstatuj that there is no 2/3 against any entity and that this initiative has been adopted. Moving to point 19. – Report by the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the initiative of the Members of the SDA Club from the extension of the 63rd session of the House of Representatives held on 25.02.2014. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 15, versus 8, abstentions 4.. I konstatovati that there was no 2/3 against any entity and that this initiative was adopted. Moving to point 20. – The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 64th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13 March 2014. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 18, against 12, there were no abstentions. I find that, colleague Bećirović, this proposal has not been adopted. We move to the 21st point – The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 64th session of the House of Representatives, held on 13 March 2014. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 18, against 12, there were no abstentions. I realize this initiative didn't go either. Moving to point 22. – Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We are voting on the adoption of the Joint Commission's report with a single amendment. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 25, there wasn't, uh, 3. abstentions. I konstatovati that we have adopted this Joint Commission report at both homes. Point 23. – Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General for the period 01.01.2013-31.12.2013. We're voting on the adoption of reports with proposals and suggestions from him. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, there were no abstentions. I understand we've adopted this report. 127 Point 24. – Report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2013. We're voting on the adoption of the recommendation report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, there were no abstentions. I understand we've adopted this recommendation report. Point 25. – Report on the work of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been carried out in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2013 law. We're voting on the adoption of the report with the recommendations I read when it was the agenda point. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, there were no abstentions. I understand we've adopted this recommendation report. Point 26. – Annual report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013. We are voting on the adoption of a report with a conclusion calling on all entities to implement the recommendations of the Ombudsman Institution referred to in the reports. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, there were no abstentions. I understand we've adopted the recommendation report. Point 27. – Review of Parliamentarian Beriz Belkić's initiative from the 65th session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.04.2014. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 21 versus 7, abstention 1. There is not enough support from the RS This initiative is going to be agreed in the College. I'm closing the 67th session of the House of Representatives. I note that, according to our calendar, the next House session is planned for 12 June 2014. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 11:25 p.m.
