ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4466	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international institutions, respected media representatives, other guests, I warmly welcome you. I am opening the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Session is attended by 14, representatives of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. Ambassador Sulejman Tihić is not able to attend the session for justified reasons. For the 39th session, I propose the next amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-125/14, of 23.05.2014; 4. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on the achievement of the same text of the Law on Electronic Document (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-5/14, of 05.02.2014; 5. Information and conclusions reached regarding the current situation resulting from the natural disaster - the flood in BiH, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 02- 04-6524, since 02.07.2014; 6. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2013, issue: 01,02-50-19-660/14, dated 26.05.2014; 7. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions, submitted by the PSBiH House of Representatives, issue: 02-02-4-600/14, dated 30.05.2014; 8. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Possibilities for the effective work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-690/14, of 03.06.2014; 9. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-37-703/14, of 09.06.2014; 10. Annual Report and Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, issue 02-50-19-480/14, of 03.04.2014; 11. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2013, issue 05/8-50-19-307/14, of 04.03.2014; 2 12. Report on the work of the National Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy for 2013, issue: 01,02-29-592/14, of 07.05.2014; 13. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2013 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2014, issue: 01,02-50-19-649/14, of 22.05.2014; 14. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, issue 02-09-638/14, since 20.05.2014; 15. Consideration of the resignation of Magdalena Papić to the elected member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Appeal Office between recognised management law experts from the Federation of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-745/14, of 26.06.2014; 16. Granting consent to ratify the extradition treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Morocco, issue: 01,02-05-2-651/14, of 22.05.2014; 17. Granting consent to ratify Additional Protocol 3 with the Agreement on the Amending and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006), number: 01,02-05-2-672/14, of 29.05.2014; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Financial Cooperation – Exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for the project – Vjetropark podveležje, No: 01,02-05-2-673/14, of 29.05.2014; 19. Giving consent to ratifying the First Amendment to the Debt Exchange Agreement of 27.2.2012 between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW), Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) as well as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance (FBiH), and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance (RS), amounting to 12.821,343,85 euros – Exchange of Debt 3, issue: 01.02-05-2-674/14, of 29.05.2014; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2013 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, issue: 01.02-05-2-682/14, of 30.05.2014; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment 4 to the Agreement on the financing of the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBH), the Housing Credit Programme, the Credit Programme for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and KfW, Frankfurt na Majna (KfW) No 01,02-05-2-704/14, of 10.06.2014; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina L/D 1789(2013), No: 01,02-05-2-707/14, of 11.06.2014; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the grant treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and J.P. Communist Capljina d.o.o. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to investment grants from the European Union for the Capljina Project, No 01,02-05-2-750/14, of 30.06.2014; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Amending of the Swedish Trust Fund Grant Agreement – Project for the Protection of Water Quality in Bosnia and Herzegovina: Water and sewerage in Mostar (TF 099534) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-751/14, from 30.06.2014; 25. Granting consent to ratify the Funding Agreement with regard to preparatory activities for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in conflict areas in the Western Balkans for 2012 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission (centralised governance), No: 01,02-05-2-752/14, of 30.06.2014. 3 It was the agenda we agreed on in our College. Is there anyone here for the word on the agenda? There are no reports, no interest in the application. Thank you. This is a harmonised agenda for the College, so it is not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I don't have a report. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the 38th session. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 - for 12, versus 2. abstentioned two. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 2 by mistake abstention, RS 5 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree that the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4469	Thank you. I got an answer, of course, that I'm not happy with because it was obviously a conversation on deaf phones. I know that there are acts on how to use and official cars and how to buy, I know how many cars, and I know about... available 24 hours, and other things. My question was whether the Council of Ministers prepared an analysis of how it works in practice, whether we are wasteful, because when compared to country standards and in the environment, especially in Europe, we are the richest country in Europe. The intensity was if you were going to do some analysis, get it in order,... Of course we have normatives, I didn't expect that, and there was no question. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4470	Thank you, colleague Simić. A colleague of Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4471	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The content, i.e. the answer to the envoy's questions, is as it is. I want to comment on the current situation at the border crossings in the south. How do you know that tourist season is in progress and that we have constant problems crossing the border, the southern border towards Croatia. I know that it is not a problem with the BiH Borders Committee but is a problem with the commission made up of representatives of the Republic of Croatia. So, they failed to meet on this border crossing that I have cited as a problem, means Metkovic-Metković-Gabel field, so I am asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers to work on this problem and to make it with the Croatian side that the Metković-Gabela border crossing is quickly running as an international border crossing bar now during the season. So, the access roads and everything is paved up, prepared, there is no reason why the border crossing of the Gablea field-Metkovic does not open up as an international border crossing and a reduction in traffic in the south. The Doljani border crossing, believe it or not, passes 40 thousand cars a day at that border crossing. It's an insufferable crowd, and it's been waiting a few hours. Here, once again, I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers to see whether anything can be done to open the border crossing as an international border crossing at least temporarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4472	Thank you. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4473	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies and all distinguished guests at today's session, all hailing. My question of envoys also referred to the temporary closure of the Kamensko border crossing. In today's question, we have found some things, and in some ways I want to say that in answer we have confirmed that the the thesis that we have presented as an explanation in the parliamentary question where it is visible, from the documents that I received in response, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was carrying out oral correspondence on this matter and that written correspondence exists only in that element, that is, the time when institutions outside Herceg-Bosnian County and the municipal chief of Livna and Tomislavgrad responded to temporary closures. There's been leads ever since. So in this sense, I want to say if there is one, the truth is this question is now somehow behind us, because this job is done, but if there is any responsibility of certain institutions then in this case there is a Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4474	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I don't see a comment on the other answers. Any new envoy questions? Here you go. I don't see a report, colleague Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4475	Thank you. My envoy's question is to refer to the Federal Ministry for Defence and Disabilities of Homeland War and the Federation of BiH Government. The news published on disability payments for only one part of the wartime wartime invalids in the Western-Herzegovina County that gained status by 2004 must surely be an invitation to judicial investigative authorities to react in order to protect individuals' rights and equality against the law. To remind you, the rights of defenders are defined by the Law on the rights of defenders and members of their families and apply to all defenders, regardless of the time of acquisition of rights. The fees shall be made on the basis of the solutions issued which have recognised the right to personal and family disability and may be used until the body responsible for defence disability protection has reached a solution on the termination or modification of recognised rights in accordance with the law and may not be subject to any agreement. Any suspension without a change of solution represents both a harsh violation of the laws and the rights of individuals. The Federal Defence Ministry has on several occasions been warned to stop breaking the law and to secure payments for all defenders and return the review process to the frameworks of laws and applicable regulations. We are concerned that no conclusion of the House of People's thematic session of the Federation Parliament on the state of the rights of the defence population adopted at the 21st session, which was held on 05.06.2014, was implemented. So I'm asking the Federal Defence Ministry - what has been done in the sense of carrying out conclusions 2, 4 and 10 of the Federation's House of Peoples, which have already expired 15 and 30 days ago, and on the basis of which rules have suspended the payment of disability for wartime military people in the Western-Herzegovina County? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4476	Thank you. You have a written question to deliver? A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4477	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected present, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question to the Central Election Commission – why did the Central Election Commission not destroy the preparation for the printing of ballots for the previous two election cycles? Reason: When printing ballots, the preparation is done in such a way as to impress the watermark of the appropriate design and then print the candidate lists afterwards. The previous elections were of course prepared with a watermark, and this preparation is kept in Czechoslovakia and Slovenia, one in the Czech Republic, one in Slovenia. The principle is that such preparations are destroyed for known reasons. Instead, the CEC decided that the design of these ballots would be entirely identical to the design of previous ballots, with the same watermark, with the same coat of arms. And therefore, we will have at this point in three places a quote preparation for printing ballots in the same way with the same design and with the same watermark. It opens up a possibility that you don't even need to talk about. I ask the question to the Central Election Commission – Why did it not, in accordance with all the standards and needs, destroy previous preparations for the printing of ballots. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4478	Thank you, Genjac. I'm a colleague of Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On several occasions, representatives of the expert community pointed to a problem that exists in the BiH Criminal Law, even in his original version, imposed by the high representative, Mr. Eždaun. We all know that in the old system there was a sanction of confiscation of property, it was introduced even into the Law of '76.(?) years to make '90s. Years and in Criminal Law, the SFRY was abolished. However, in today's law, BiH's Criminal Law, Article 133 provides for the punishment of taking away half of the property, taking away a larger part of the property and taking away the entire property. It's about legal issues, of course. Well-meaningly, Mr. Eždaun has re-introduced the confiscation of property here at the small door. And in particular, one such provision does not meet the standards established by the European Court of Justice that the laws must be clear, precise and must give advance very, very clear opportunities when someone engages in... This provision is also in a certain way, and in a conflict with a provision relating to a criminal offence over bankruptcy where creditors are said to be calmed down and if this is said to be, let me figuratively say, confiscation of assets from confiscated assets which, by the very act of confiscation, becomes state property. I ask the question what's the difference between a creditor and a trustee for, if it's a... strike? We have discrimination, so people if the bankruptcy procedure is open and the property is taken away by creditors have the right to collect their claims and these have no right just because it is not an open bankruptcy. My question..., since we are very often faced with changes to the Criminal Code, and I also remind you that it has already crossed the 50% limit that allows for changes and additions, and then should go to the entire Criminal Law, the question of the Ministry of Justice, means – Do they intend to carry out an analysis of these remarks, these suggestions? And in that direction, if these remarks are made, and these are people from the profession who really have references to this, take measures to remove this and... and comply with the standards that require legal certainty... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4480	Thank you, colleague Simić. A kolegica of the Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4481	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have four parliamentary questions. I ask my first question as a member of the Sub-Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Given the fact that I am several times asked there what BiH will do to equalise the rights of persons with disabilities on the basis of equal disability, to which it is mandatory and which it only declares itself, and in fact objectively on the ground and in real life has done nothing, so I ask the representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights – What kind of response can the BiH delegation give in Strasbourg about the problem of persons with...? 7 My second question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications and is related to discrimination against persons with incapacitation of movement. It's something I've tried several times from this pay phone to point to that problem. Several years ago, so in my term of office when I was a representative of the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives, during the debate on the Law on Internal and Road Traffic, I made an amendment that provided that all transport companies, including those carrying out trams and trolleybuses and other road traffic, have an obligation to place at least one vehicle that will have a high-speed ramp, which will allow people with disabilities to access to transport normally. Neither until then nor until now, therefore, some five or six years later, it is not allowed to be placed on the market, officially placing on the market the fatale of vehicles with the lift ramp as they exist, both in the countries of the environment, so in all the civilized countries of the world. So, I think that the Ministry of Transport and Communications as a roof ministry must warn the entity ministries of the obligation that, as I know, has been taken over by colleagues from the RS, and Parliament of the Federation has, therefore, incorporated such an amendment into the integrated text of the Law. I think people with incapacitation in motion have the right to a decent life, and in this way they are roughly discriminated against. My third question has been asked to the Central Election Commission. One of the colleagues has already asked at one of the previous sessions, I have not seen the answer, why will BiH not have civilised during this election cycle, like all other countries during a complex voting cycle and process, have transparent boxes of how it is done in all other countries of the world, and even in Albania as an observer of elections, for example, in Albania and even in Azerbaijan? I have to say that even in those countries that are... undemocratic, which I wouldn't say that during the election cycles it was so confirmed that it was so... Albania. I think transparent boxes have to be because they're part of the standard of voting. And I ask the Central Election Commission – Can and can there be an opportunity to do so in this cycle with BiH, with its vote. And my fourth question is the Ministry of Security. We are witnessing more and more frequent attacks on returnees to RS, as well as on officials and religious facilities of the Islamic Community, i.e. the property of the Islamic Community. I'm asking the Department of Security what they're gonna do about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4482	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. He's a colleague of Ivanic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4483	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac inspired me to ask a question to the Central Election Commission. The ballots are printed on special paper. As far as I have information, 20% is always obtained more than is necessary to print from which the possibility arises that, here I can only say theoretically and not practically, I can print ballots that can be used beyond legal procedures. So I ask the Central Election Commission – Is it also how to control the destruction of excess paper for printing ballots for elections and is there a record of the surplus from previous elections? The second question, he'll probably say that I'm affecting the D.A.'s office, but I'm going to ask him anyway, The BiH Prosecutor's Office – Why has the Central Election Commission's application for manipulation been denied at 8 polling stations in Banja Luka when a graphologist proved that 400 signatures were signed by the same person? Those two questions are nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4484	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We don't have any more applications, I don't see any interest. I'm closing this agenda. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH How this first reading is in line with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption, the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives at the 67th session, held on 28th of this year, passed the Law. I give my word to my colleague Simić, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4486	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4487	No, thank you very much. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there's any need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have a report, I'm sorry, colleague Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4489	Ladies and gentlemen, nice to meet you all. I'll do it for a while. So, let me remind you that this Law was adopted at the House of Representatives on 28 May and that, both in the first and second readings in the... legislative procedure and for it, they gave support to both entities. He had, therefore, entity support. Unfortunately, BiH has not fulfilled its obligations under the Action Plan, the action plan taken because here in the House, as long as it recalls, we have not supported the Law that follows the Law on the Prevention of Washing New and Financing of Terrorist Activities. And for this reason, the Committee of Ministers of the 9th Council of Europe has issued a declaration or a public statement on the non-compliance of our legislation with the European legislation that treats this area. The publication of the declaration 01.06, i.e. the publication of the declaration 01.06. each Member of MONEYVAL shall have the discretion to decide on the type and manner of measures to be implemented. Since then, BiH must be recognised in silent sanctions and as long as this announcement of MONEYVAL is made public on their website. Let's remember that a global organization... has not published this conference. It's not because we passed one law and this other one didn't and they gave us another chance. The last chance, I think, is when MONEYVAL resumes in September and therefore BiH can get into terrible problems. I, therefore, read and read what our ministers and ministers are saying, etc., so I remembered very well the words of Minister Špirić who said – if BiH does not adopt this Law can enter into terrible problems because financial transactions will go slowly, unnecessary blockades will occur, there will be delays, etc. And I also remember the words of the first people of the associations of banks and the Federation and the RS who said they already had problems, so with financial transactions and that there are even controversial suspensions when it comes to money transactions in BiH. So, a lot of problems. And here I am really calling on my colleagues to realize that this is a serious problem. We must not relativize this as we have relativated the verdict of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac, so we have been hostages for 5 years. So I'm saying I'd like to get this job done by mid-September. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4490	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4491	I thank the chairman. I think the public has quite enough to say about the importance of adopting this law and the potential catastrophic consequences of a possible non-compliance with the law. Given that we are talking about principles today and that with this Law we have found ourselves in a regular procedure, so it is a procedure that allows any shortcomings of the Law to be corrected through the amendment phase, to be modified and to be reached acceptablely, possibly or possibly possible for all. When it comes to the principles of this Law, the Proposer has explained enough. It is mainly about precision, clarifications, divergences of jurisdiction, entity, state, Brcko District, in line with the constitutional legal arrangement of BiH, and it is mainly about implementing recommendations that are binding for us, since we have signed the relevant documents internationally and agreed to implement them. So there are, among other things, four very significant amendments to members relating to the implementation of MONEYVAL recommendations. The fact is that the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities is one condition, the fact is also that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law is another condition. That's definitely two conditions. We passed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and that's good, this Law was passed at the House of Representatives. The fact is also that, since it is at least four recommendations by binding MONEYVAL that this Law is a very certain condition set before us by the Council of Europe on this area. I think that, at the moment we have secured the regular procedure of this Law, I think we have come into a position that the House of Nations is truly dealing with this Law, and also in a way to clarify some thesis that, in public, some... had in terms of the jurisdiction of entities, states, etc. 10 I think, therefore, that it would be very important for the House of Nations to support the principles of this Law in the first reading and then in the amendment phase, for which we have quite enough time, to clarify the dilemmas that are present. The second approach, i.e. voting against the principles of this Law without being able to, and willingly, correct itself in the amendment phase of the Law, I think it would send an extremely ugly message with very difficult consequences, because that would be a message about – we will not do this Law and we will not deal with solutions at all. I understand that during the amendment phase, no solution is found, that these are opposing attitudes, but it would be worth a try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4492	Thank you. We don't have any more applications, I don't see any interest in the application. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - for 9, versus 3, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 3 against and 1 abstention. We have a general but we don't have an entity majority. In accordance with our practice and our business obligations, the obligation remains to agree with our College. Since the collective assembly is what it is and today we don't have one present representative of the College, that part of the consent will continue later. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on the achievement of the same text of the Law on Electronic Document (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at the 38th session, since 06.06, passed the Law on an electronic document with three repairs, amendments. At the 65th session, held on 15 April this year, the House of Representatives passed the Law on the Electronic Document also with these three repairs. Since the Law was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples appointed a Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law of Envoys: a colleague of Raguž, a colleague of Hodžić and a colleague of Košarac. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the same tex of the law at the meeting held on 02.07.This year reached... in the same text of the Law and drawn up a report on which we are to be made known today. The Joint Committee proposes to the House to adopt the Report and adopt the single text of the Law on the Electronic Document with amendments adopted by the Joint Commission. At its 69th session, of 03/07, the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of the same tex. I give my word to my colleague Raguž if he has any needs. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4494	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4495	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see a report, interest, colleague Tadić, is it an interest or is it something else?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4496	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4497	No, it's not, okay, I don't see the interest either. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Report of the Interim Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly on achieving the same text of the Law on the Electronic Document. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 - all for. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Interim Joint Committee's report that both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on the achievement of the same text of the Law on the Electronic Document have been adopted. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Information and conclusions reached about the current situation resulting from the natural disaster - the flood in BiH, the Council of Ministers' material The College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at its 49th session, held on 06th of this year, during a review of the report on the situation in BiH, which was delivered by the BiH Ministry of Security, concluded that the report was incomplete, not complete, and tasked the Council of Ministers to deliver a full report on the situation in BiH caused by natural disasters that will fully cover the damages that have taken place, past activities and planned preventive measures, i.e. measures to mitigate the consequences. The Council of Ministers delivered to the House on 02 July of this year the information and conclusions made regarding the current situation. I'm giving the applicant a word of information. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4499	Dear President, Vice-President, distinguished MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In the conditions of the catastrophic floods that hit our country starting on 14 May 2014, the BiH Council of Ministers held meetings at which, in accordance with constitutional and legal competences, it considered the current situation on the ground and on the basis of the needs indicated, made appropriate decisions, conclusions and recommendations, and took other necessary activities for 12 activation of institutional resources in the provision of emergency assistance to affected areas and the recovery of the damages suffered. All materials with 17 regular and extraordinary meetings of the BiH Council of Ministers during this period, which relate to the examination and take-up of flood-related activities, were delivered to this House in order to have a full review and retrospective of the Council of Ministers' activities in the days of the situation. In the first draft reaction of the Council of Ministers, we held two meetings on 15 and 16 May and made, at the request of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security, decisions on the allocation of 800 thousand marks, as well as decisions on granting consent to ask for international assistance for protection and rescue in order to help the civilian population because of the situation caused by the floods. These indicators, starting with, in the best possible way, deny malicious and political claims made by individuals in public, that the Council of Ministers did nothing in the days of this situation. On the contrary, in accordance with the constitutional and legal powers of the Council of Ministers, at the meetings held on 21 and 22 May, considering the current situation resulting from a natural disaster, and in order to continuously and plan for the monitoring of tasks, nine of which were the first ones – that all the ministries and other BiH institutions were in charge, in accordance with their respective powers, of taking the necessary measures to function in the exceptional circumstances of the floods. At the same time, the second conclusion was – the responsibility of the Ministry of Security to regularly inform the Council of the exact number of flood victims in co-operation with the institutions of entities, cantons and Brcko District. Both the first and second conclusions were continuously followed and the information received and the action plans of all those from whom it was requested. The BiH Ministry of Security has been tasked with providing information to the Council of Ministers in co-operation with the competent institutions of entities, Brcko District, Canton and municipalities on a continuous basis on the need for assistance of vulnerable areas, and primarily in those first days was food, clothing, shoes, medicines, medical equipment, rehabilitation equipment and the like. The fourth conclusion was – where the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs is tasked with preparing an initiative to organise an international donor conference to help BiH resolve the consequences of catastrophic floods, in cooperation with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and other ministries. As you know, the conference will take place on 16th of July in Brussels. The fifth was that it was the BiH Foreign Ministry's duty to co-ordinate activities at the joint performance of BiH, Croatia and Serbia towards the EU and other international financial institutions in seeking assistance. This conclusion was subsequently reformed since Croatia did not accept it as a joint initiative and so we conducted these activities in co-operation with the Serbian government,... and a joint conference of donors to be held, as I said, on the next Wednesday. The Co-ordination Body for Protection and Rescue has been tasked with providing regular information to the Council of Ministers on the situation in vulnerable areas for information. So that you don't stay here, I'll say something later about the work, that's not the work of the Coordination Body. The seventh is – it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Security to prepare a decision for the Council of Ministers to form a co-ordination body for rescue if personal changes have occurred in the institutions from which they were appointed. There were no interventions and it remained in the format and composition as it was formed in 2012. 13 The Council of Ministers, the eighth conclusion, formed an Interresor Working Group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, by two members of Republika Srpska's representatives and two members of the Federation of BiH government, one member of the Brcko District government. The task of the task of the task force is to prepare, in co-operation with other ministries, a proposal for a criteria for the distribution of assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina affected by a natural flood disaster in May 2014. This Interresor Working Group is working and giving reports, and it was closely related to the waiting of the evaluations that were under way, so this conclusion is constantly being monitored and implemented. The ninth is that the BiH Council of Ministers calls on the competent institutions of all levels of government to quickly approach the damage assessment activities, which will be the basis for seeking international movement. And this was successfully solved so that it was local, the communities were... a team made up of representatives of the UN and the European Commission and the World Bank who did the technical part of the job. The realisation of the above conclusions has been discussed at all Council of Ministers meetings until today. The Council thus confirmed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 which provides for the reorientation of more than 7 million marks from the Order Budget at risk of floods, and concluded that it is necessary for all institutions responsible for the preparation of the donor conference, which will be held in Brussels on 16 July 2014, to make a maximum contribution to the donor conference to be successfully held. The preparation meeting held on 8 July 2014 in Paris, attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers at the technical level, representatives of the entity and Brcko District. It was a preparation meeting for what's going to happen in Brussels. So far the official evaluations are summarised, and the material that has been delivered to you is much wider, shows that more than 950,000 inhabitants have been moved from their homes, devastated and destroyed more than 100,000 houses and apartments, damaged more than 250 schools, health and other public institutions. Large damage to infrastructure facilities such as roads, bridges, railways. What is especially the same with this housing, i.e. the migration, is that a large number of economic facilities and agricultural holdings have suffered damages, and therefore job losses. More than 50,000 people have been evacuated, and a large number of displaced persons are currently taken care of and still located in collective centres. The floods in BiH have been estimated to have caused damage and losses estimated at 15% of our GDP. I've already said that it's been intensified... by working groups based on assessment of damage to the development of distribution criteria and humanitarian aids both after money and all others. Taking into account that the Council of Ministers has been acting in a situation of a natural disaster and is obliged to act in accordance with the 2008 Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents in BiH, the Council of Ministers co-ordinated all activities in the event of natural and other accidents in October 2012 and to inform the Council of Ministers on the activities undertaken in order to make timely and appropriate decisions. In this context there is also that read conclusion number 7. However, it must be noted that we received the first report of the Coordination Body on Monday and simply did not consider it at the Council of Ministers since the absence was the head of the Coordination Body. I think the report was made up correctly, but it simply indicates that the koordinacijski body didn't work, the reasons for the dysfunction, the conclusions were proposed, we'll consider it urgently and forward it to this House. The Council of Ministers has brought a number of acts within its competences to address the consequences, so I will only list some of the concrete things here. So, we supported the initiative and sent it to the Saudi Fund for the Development of Requests for the Change of Credit Agreement, Project 14 of Rehabilitation of Housing Units, equivalent to $15 million, unanimously adopted, sent to the Saudi Fund for approval, we wait for approval. We also agreed that the funds of the USAID programme amounting to slightly less than 9.5m euros intended for the implementation of the support and capacity building programme of state institutions are being rerouted to the development project of small and medium-sized enterprises and are being agreed. We also in cooperation with Brussels agreed, referred to the approval of a simple location of 15m euros from the IPA package, those non-contracted funds that applied to this year. Before that, again in cooperation with Brussels, we made a decision on unused and once frozen IPA funds from previous years of 42m euros, also rerouting to these purposes, and we expect these days to be realised both. At a session held on 30 June, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision to withdraw on the basis of a signed, harmonised letter of intent towards the IMF on withdrawing the tranche from the stand-by arrangement, with what is regularly due to the debt service, i.e. the entity's liabilities of 185 million. We have agreed on additional funds for a dedicated fast programme to mitigate the consequences of a natural disaster equivalent to 185 million marks. The agreement was reached on allocating these funds of 49% of the Federation, 49% of RS and 2% of the Brcko District. The World Bank approved the requested loan last week through its 100m-dollar Development Agency. It's something that's been done in short and fast procedures and on their... it's approved. The funds are granted under IDA terms, so unambiguous. At the age of 10, the grace period is at 20 years, the cost of the total loan is 1.25%. I have tried here, given the magnitude of the material that has been delivered to you, to the shortest extent, to expose the work of the BiH Council of Ministers' work in this period since the beginning of the floods, and to the daily meetings and talks, to the communication of ministers and myself personally with a number of representatives of foreign governments, international organisations on finding a solution, I didn't even need to mention it, because these activities are simply in the spirit of the obligations created in the past Council of Ministers' sessions and the perfectly normal obligation of all of us working in the Council of Ministers not to make heroes out of ourselves, but to do what we get paid for and to submit to you the report. In addition, I would also like to point out that the mentioned activities and indicators of the work and actions of the Council of Ministers under these conditions of a difficult natural disaster that has hit our country are no less important than those presented. But considering, therefore, all the documentation delivered, I hope, you can create a realistic and objective picture of the Council of Ministers' activities in the given situation, I did not want to burden you further, and I am ready to answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4500	Thank you to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Word came from a colleague named Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4501	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs. I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for this Information, which the Council of Ministers and ministries has provided us with materials based on the conclusions of the 49th session of the House of Peoples and has also created assumptions that we, as a legislative institution, see what we can do, not only in the recovery of the true flood of Bible proportions, but in the prevention and creation of conditions that this will never happen again in this way. And if we look at 15 of what we have received in written form of different information, if we look at the Council of Ministers conclusions with several sessions, here we have heard now 17 regular and extraordinary sessions, if I have remembered well, as well as the conclusions of the 102nd session, as well as the reports of individual and special agencies and special ministries, it is not possible to say that it has not been done and that there has not been a huge effort to resuscitate and support hard-hitted areas and populations. We all know and we've all been around and we've had insight into the scale of these natural disasters. According to these indicators, over 50% of BiH municipalities are directly affected. More than 10,000 km of square meters of floods, which is relative to the total percentage of the space area that is occupying BiH terribly. If we take this 15% GDP data in terms of damage, even though it's still too early to conclude, we can only see what the scale of this disaster really is. What I see here and what we should actually discuss today as a Dom is the fact that there are responsibilities in those assessments that are given here by certain institutions within the Council of Ministers and ministries, so I'm just going to read some. Point 4 of this Report says – observed problems and shortcomings in the system of protection and rescue that require urgent resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the elements that don't work. It says – insufficiently effective and efficient institutional communication, coordination and passing of information. If you don't have that element satisfied that we can talk about any serious system. Under two, there is no adequate risk analysis and early warning. How can we act preventively if there is no early warning of danger? Ignorance and lack of application of the adopted protection plan. So, no knowledge or lack of application. The lack of framework law established operational structures at national level. So, the Framework Law exists, there is a need for a established structure, but that structure is not established. Insufficient capacitation of the protection sector, etc., non-harmonisation of the law and... This does not apply to what the Council of Ministers has been doing now, and I really think that it has worked maximum, but I want to say how much of the gaps and dubiosis in the system is as complex as it is at more levels, not sufficiently efficient, and what we really need to conclude today about these reports. What I can say, I have to say in Savina, in Tuzlani, ZE-DO, in Zanička-Dobojska, it seems to me 250 just slides either, the Savini that lives on agriculture, if 80% of agriculture is the life of a region like Posavina, here I haven't seen in these reports an analysis of the damage enough, precise what it means to destroy 80% of the life of one year of a region. And what it means now is if we don't have adequate measures to take care of it, to create conditions for the autumn seed so as not to break the continuity of agricultural activity because of that people live there, because the damages are greater than in the entire war in two, three days, the question is how to act. And certainly that the upcoming donor conference in Brussels and the measures taken in cooperation with the countries of the region create assumptions that some things are different... But when you talk to people, dear friends, when you see that in one day, centuries of plantations disappear, orchards, family treasures, values, then you can only... The only thing we can conclude today is that we create assumptions that these floods never happen again, all of this will be resolved and so on. If the height of the embankment remains like this, if the quality of the embankment and coordination remains the same in this way, it can be repeated tomorrow, the question is when will the rain fall in such a size or greater. Look at the strategic forecasts, no one rules out the more difficult consequences and... So, we don't have a preventive strategy established here, not a single strategic plan that must of course be indicative, because there are entity competences, Brcko District, County, all others, municipalities, they all have their own responsibility, but BiH is also at this strategic level simply one place. It is now showing how much this strategic dimension of coordination and consistency and with Brussels, so Serbia has only because it has had a few positive steps towards the EU could use European funds as if it were a full member, so much EU is open, so much is asking us to move some things in the harmonisation of the law and to meet European requirements. And that is what we would have to do through this debate now help the Council of 16 ministers to round not only these measures in part by certain ministries, but to act through one framework strategy preventively from strategic procedures on the Sava River, the Bosnia and Herzegovina River and all other rivers, until a system that will act preventively is established, there is obviously no such action here, until this situation is coordinated, which is also found not to exist in this report, and to a long-term recovery plan that is not objective, without which it is objectively impossible to resolve these consequences. I expect that this debate will go in this direction, that these reports that we have received are making assumptions that we make good conclusions in this direction that will be at the level of strategies agreed and regional and European and preventive and I think that we can only then justify this debate and our demands, and everything in the function of both people and space feeling that institutions are related in a way that they can give guarantees that these floods, at least when it comes to BiH, will never happen again, without being corrected by the system and the preventive and the current and the post when it happens, and that there is no one transitory information and action at the strategic, financial and infrastructure level. Here I expect that we will make all the expensive contributions to encourage people to stay, to act on the basis of this difficult and painful experience for them,...by all of us and I believe that this will justify this debate. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4502	Thank you. A fellow Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with what my colleague Raguž said and I won't repeat myself, I had an intention, so I'm going to talk about it, so I'm going to cut my story short. Otherwise, as time goes on, it is increasingly visible what the consequences of the other unimaginable floods, with unspeakable destructive proportions. I believe that we are many, that many villages, many villages, municipalities, cities are unrecognizable today, the consequences are terrible. Therefore, there must be a lasting obligation for all of us, here we are, and for the Council of Ministers, and for civil society, and for the government and non-governmental sectors, and for individuals to act constantly and to help at least to ease these consequences in the good part. We have one, one systematised Information of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministries and bodies on the measures and activities taken after the flood, and it is clear that the activities are not left behind no one can dispute that. I would take the opportunity to especially thank the Ministry of Defense and their brave, insanely brave, bold pilots who were only one foot above the roofs, saving people, so without any equipment, without any warning about what might happen to them, etc. So we've seen it, seen it, and we have to, we really have to give it up. And that's what we're talking about, so here we are talking about Council of Ministers' activities, not talking about entity governments' activities, Brcko District, cantonal governments, municipalities, etc. The question is, could it have been different, could there have been fewer problems? One of the problems is this, as far as we could see from this report, the Coordination Body for Protection and Rescue, whose formation, training, equipment, funding. etc. regulated by the Framework Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents. And it is a professional body, as we see, not a political body, but a body acting on human principles because it makes recommendations, monitors the situation, controls the situation, gives, is on constant alert, coordinates at that time with the international community, institutions, 17 international institutions and asks for humanitarian assistance, as we have seen, and tries to distribute it. So, it was an obligation and I can't understand that this koordinacijski Body couldn't meet once, only the first time they met in 18.06 and I think it's terrible. You should see, so here I am saying, you should see why this is how the koordinacijski Body works, because they put in an unfortunate, difficult situation all BiH citizens, therefore, are not just entities. It's visible, so the obstructions came from the RS and I can't really, I can't understand that they couldn't meet for a full month. More EU directives and guidance from other international organisations require that the country or states jointly plan early warning and protection against dangers and accidents, this is what the flood is like. And during the period of the shift of this blue wave, we saw that unfortunately there was no early warning, no citizens were warned that a tidal wave was coming. So that's something that's known, there are modern methods and therefore, the water couldn't stop, but it could save material goods, people, we've seen that there are also dead, etc., missing. In Maglai alone, in my Maglaj, over a thousand cars were submerged, I don't know that one small percentage could have been saved, all, all the crafts, all the shops, all that was destroyed, and today it's all Maglaj, but I know really, there's an information here, and many other cities are in a very difficult situation. I have read here a worrying finding in this Information, and it is repeated year after year, that the existing organisation and material-financial unpreparedness of the BiH institutions and bodies, entities and Brcko District will not be able to respond, and what my colleague Raguž was saying, we will not be able to meet the new challenges, and the consequences will be, as it says in this Information, frightening. Unfortunately, I get angry when I read such sentences and I really need to see what this sentence means. So, the Council of Ministers has to answer this question and I believe you can, Mr. Chairman, and now, here, after we're done, say what this sentence means here. I know that the Council of Ministers has, on several occasions, approved funds from the current reserve, and here I listened to you talking about the means that perhaps, which are already operational or will be operational, I think it's about significant funds, I've put together in my head, so it's about some maybe 500 million marks. And I'm just asking you to get that money, that money to be operational as soon as possible. To me is the king's thought when he asked his servants, what does the people say? The people, they say, shout, yell at the situation they're in. It's tight. It's showing. Then again, what does the people say? Tighten up. Then again, what does the people say? The people are making noises. It tightens in terms of measures, etc. Last time he asks, what does the people say? Shut up. Then let it go. The people were yelling, believe me, probably maybe... now they're silent, they're silent and now they're just all ready for the fear and winter that's coming, because in us is spring and winter, that they'll stay in the situation they're in right now. So I really ask you to invest even more... that even if these resources are available, so we don't say what entities are doing, to become operational and that people, people who are flooded, see that there are some movements in that sense. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4504	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4505	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I need to say a few words and I think that this topic is also worth it because of what happened from May to June in BiH and given the consequences that 18 have produced natural disasters and what is most difficult, as I come from a city that has experienced the same flood in its devastating proportions, where over 5,000 objects have been destroyed, over 15,000 working surfaces and which will likely leave long-term effects on the lives of these people. But that's what it is to say part of fate and that's what made us... Whether we could have predicted it, we probably did, and what I often like to say and say, it's our behavior and the difference between normative and real, what it is that we've arranged as a certain legal framework, what it is that comes from that legal framework, and when certain situations like this arise, what we can get out of all of this and how much we're willing to react at a given moment. It seems to me that this is the key thing in the whole... no matter what we could see from this report today, and I've been able to look at these reports, start with the local community, the entities, so here's to the biggest state institutions. And about all these reports are finding a certain state, they're finding out everything that's happened, and what I think we as the House of Peoples are supposed to be discussing, that is to say, we're also dealing with the responsibilities that the House of Peoples has. I have to say that when you look at it, and if I'm not mistaken, the chairman of the Council of Minsitors said that the total damage caused by the flood is over 15% of the gross social product. That translated into nominal figures seems to me to be over 2 billion euros, somewhere around 4 billion. And when we know what conditions we live in BiH, what the total budgets of BiH entities and institutions are, then all that is going on and what is going to happen, hopefully 16th in Brussels, is an attempt to get to some of the resources that are necessary for the resolution of the overall consequences. But I'm sure we can draw a few more conclusions from all this. All of this shows us how organized the system we live in is. How many institutions, state authorities, and I have to say public enterprises, and all those who are partly dealing with this issue, were willing to react properly. It seems to me that, when it comes to civil protection, we in BiH and jurisdiction, as far as I know, are in local communities, but it is very important that the system of co-ordination and coordination we talked about. Civil protection is a developmental character, which means we have to take all those actions in peace, and often at the heart of many other needs, we don't invest enough funds to equip fire territorial units, public utility companies, and that's a reflection of the situation we're in. So, my conclusion after all this would be, and led by the competences of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and otherwise parliaments, that we, from all of this we have seen, from one comprehensive information that we have received here, give absolute support to the measures to be taken in the next period, with the special emphasis of active inclusion in all these processes of donor conferences and, of course, work on a better normative framework in the next period that will be produced, and I hope after all this will be taken more seriously. If I were to tell you what happened in Prijedor, then I'll tell you, the defense was that, let's say, it's a maximum 100-year water supply of 4,80, so it's 4 meters and 80 cm, and it's over 6 meters. It's just that over all the dikes, the water spills in and out of the city. Essentially, it means whether this could have been predicted on the basis of a hundred-year average is difficult to say and I think that these are enormous things, but what we can do is we can take seriously what we can draw from this as conclusions, make normative frameworks, make better co-ordination and co-ordination, and all in order to save people and human goods. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4506	Thank you, fellow Rodić. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4507	Thank you very much. Here, listening to my colleagues in the discussion of the Flood Information that happened in BiH, I was thinking simply what to say, because it was not my intention to report to me, so let me say about it and what I know about what we did, etc., as individuals, because in fact more can be done in one other way than by saying and giving something, let me say, just verbal floods. And I'm saying this for reasons that in some way both in the media and through the institutional of this kind of debate it seemed to me quite so that there was some kind of, say, race, in some kind of struggle for help, to show some kind of social dimension and sensitivity, and yet on the other hand, we have a situation that the Framework Law for Rescue works in BiH and that this Law means we only mention it at the moment when something happens. And today we have a situation that through the Information that has been delivered to us and in which they write certain suggestions, I don't know either, miss, based on this Law, exclusively on the Coordination Body, I've really never seen any concrete suggestion from anyone that came in terms of any help that goes, either in prevention, or in preventing the damages that have been done before. What I'd like to say, no matter what one terrible thing is, and what we know, which may be the only good thing in common, unfortunately in such accidents, is that it brought all the people together in that sense, regardless of the regional, national or any other belonging. And everything else, we're already seeing from this information, actually, and already when the issues are solved, there are different attitudes, etc. And they will exist for sure, and we don't need to be surprised. I would just say in the sense that the Information made and formed by the Council of Ministers is certainly comprehensive and gives us enough indicators that and whose responsibility in some way was to act in such matters, considering that, in some ways, I am just looking at the least exist by the Council of Ministers. So in this case, I welcome this information that we received from the Council of Ministers, which is with concrete proposals, with concrete conclusions, which points us back to this one, here's what my colleague Rodić said, again my proposals, that in some ways we are all responsible both as individuals and as BiH institutions, respecting these weaknesses. And we must remove these weaknesses because indeed they are our obstacle to solving this situation with natural disasters, as well as preventative actions, and all in function, means every man, every nation living in the BiH area. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4508	Thank you, colleague Krišto. We don't have any more applicants to discuss, I don't see any interest in the debate. That concludes the debate. Is there any need for any comments? We're voting on Information. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 — for 12, abstention 1. Is this a mistake or is it, counterpart Tadić
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4509	20 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4510	Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 3 for, 1 abstained by mistake. There is a general and entity majority. I conclude, the information and conclusions made regarding the current situation resulting from the natural flood disaster in BiH have been taken into account. We're moving on to the next point, Ad. Six. BiH Council of Ministers' 2013 work report We have received opinions from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations, the Committee on Finance and Budget, the Committee on Foreign, Trade, Customs, Transport and Communications, the Joint Committee on European Integration, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, asylum refugees and ethics and the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and the development of the Parliamentary Assembly. The constitutional commission of the House of Nations adopted the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. The Committee for Finance and Budgets of the House accepted the report in part from its jurisdiction and proposed its adoption to the House. The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly accepted the report on the work of the Council of Ministers in part from their responsibilities and proposed its adoption to the House. The Joint Committee on European Integration did not support the Council of Ministers' work report. The Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics did not accept the Work Report. The Joint Committee on Economic Reform and the Development of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Work Report on the work of the institutions within its competence. The commission also adopted and proposed to the House and four locks. 1. It is suggested to the Council of Ministers that the implementation of the Council of Ministers' work programme in the areas of economic reform and development and synthetic demonstration of the effects achieved during the preparation of the next Work Report in the specific section. 2. When considering the report on the work of the Council of Ministers at committee meetings, it is necessary to have the chairman or minister appointed. 3. It is necessary to review the purpose of the existence of administrative and supervisory committees in BiH institutions, and to improve the situation in this area by amending and supplementing the law. 4. It shall be requested from the Council of Ministers for Prompt Positions on Legislative and Sub-legislative Acts referred to by the institutions, whose work reports for the past year have been examined within the competence of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past year at its 69th session of 03/07. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, these six, if need be. I'm asking everything together, is there a need? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'll give the word to the Reporter if there's any need. 21 Chairman, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4512	Thank you, President. Since this report on work is quite extensive and..., I will, in the shortest lines... and in the beginning and clarifications, especially where individual committees have given a negative opinion, so that even in the introduction, I will immediately try to get an eye on myself. So I stress that this report was done according to the current Guidelines, the methodology for making the report, which is as you know, and that I am not repeating, and formed and funded by the EU, means by their standards. And these reports have been working for four years in this way, taking into account the observations made in considering the 2012 Work Report. It contains the most important activities and results achieved in 2013, including the assessment of the situation in areas covered by the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the work of the Ministry, administrative organisations, independent administrative organisations, individual bodies of the Council of Ministers. It contains indicators of planned and implemented programming tasks, particularly appropriations, their purpose and expenditure. I would like to emphasise and suggest that an integral part of this report is the Information on the work of the Directorate for European Integration on the most significant activity data related to the BiH integration process in the EU. The report on the work of the Council of Ministers in earlier years did not contain this, but last year was an observation to this, and we have specifically singled it out and implemented it in this report. So, this is the result of the implementation of the recommendations made by both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes on the preparation of a suspicious report on the integration process and I think it was given fairly and correctly. This information sought to cover in one place all activities in 2013, which relate to the EU accession process. The work of some institutions is not covered by this Report for the reason that this was not predicted by the Methodology by which this was done, but their work is also very important for the functioning of the executive government. In addition to showing important activities of the ministry and administrative organisations, it should be noted that there have been many other activities that are less than or equal, but are also important for the functioning of the ministry, the administrative organisations of the Council of Ministers. In order for all the activities to be displayed, if they were all shown, the material would probably be much larger than these 400 pages, but I don't think that quantity would absolutely contribute to quality. I also believe that this report izvjeće a realistic picture of what the Council of Ministers did in the previous year, and also gives a realistic picture of what should have been done and has not done. The relevant part of the Report is that the data on the money available has been presented, spent and what has been done for that consumption. The data in the annex planned – they are realised objectively, they are not haired, it is precisely stated which programming tasks are not realised and a brief explanation why it is so. It should also be pointed out that this Report cannot be similar to the report on the work of governments with classical competences, because it is atrocity at entity and county level and therefore, at least in this Parliament through materials and through the Council of Ministers, we do not deal with what they say capillaryly, the situation in the field of health, education, science, culture, sport, social policy, the pension system, very little economy and the like, except that the coordination system should be much better anyway, which Brussels has warned about, and I will soon. For these administrative areas in BiH, as I said, entities and counties, which means that they cannot conduct comprehensive discussions because there can be no clarifications about something that is not within 22 of your jurisdiction. It is important to know that the Council of Ministers, whether we liked it or not, because we often hear criticisms about it, is not a government with all the usual competences, but an executive body with limited powers and a complex decision-making method. It's reality. Members of the Council, I must say, that according to the decisions relating to the reconstruction of authorities, which often brought problems and had a perfectly normal impact on the work of the Council, but the Council members treated it professionally and any decision of the Parliamentary Assembly on this matter, has been accepted without major tensions. Personally, my assessment and assessment is that the biggest failure, that last year someone asked what you consider to be the highest success and failure, is, in my opinion, the biggest failure of all of us to reach a consensus on the adoption of an effective coordination mechanism between different levels of government to implement and implement EU legislation, and quite normally in all criticisms and impasses to Brisel with the Court's ruling in Strasbourg. This is an area where they will have to deal with their solution. Unfortunately, if this had been brought in, agreed and accepted, or that everyone had been valid after the meetings we had and when we gave our word that it was all over, it hadn't been adopted afterwards. The very system of effective coordination mechanisms implies effective decision-making, and it would certainly be much easier to work and decide at the previous point and there would be no less congestion. But I'm going back to what's subject today. During 2013, BiH and NATO co-operation was continued at the level of an individual partner action plan, which, among other things, only one aspect of the activities, consisted of 30 areas of cooperation, 159 activities, 197 events. The defence ministry has either contributed to or contributed to 25, Armed Forces 156, and ultimately all ministries do not count, the percentage of implementation is about 67.51, which means that since the planned 197, 133 events have been realised, as they say in the jargon. Legislative activities taken by the Council of Ministers meant proposing new legal solutions, amendments and additions to laws for which practice shows legal uncertainty or legal uncertainty, so during the year, regardless of what I say,..., it is seen in that table planned – it is realised that it is not everything, but it is not exactly nothing, it has been adopted, in Parliament's procedure sent a total of 30 laws. Unfortunately, as has happened today, some laws adopted unanimously on the Council of Ministers have not been supported by the parliamentary majority. It should be pointed out, you all know, a successful census has been implemented and a adopted document on the BiH Statistics Development Strategy by 2020, which is certainly a significant contribution to speeding up the process of harmonisation of the BiH statistical system. A large number of international contracts, agreements, protocols, memos, both bilateral and multilateral, have also been concluded with leading European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the International Association for Development and our happiness and with great effort we managed to remain here in the IDA project system, although we have come out of this system through all parameters. During this year, me and the ministers have personally achieved significant contacts with the aim of improving good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation, strengthening of all types of ties, particularly political and economic, as well as contacts at the level of mutual respect and equality. And I think the situation in the region, at least as far as these things are concerned, has never been better. Regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations also form our essential part of the process of bringing BiH closer to the EU, and we remain an active participant in regional cooperation initiatives. We have continued to develop bilateral relations with other countries in the enlargement process and neighbouring EU countries. The members of the Council, each of them in their respective fields, under the authority of the Council of Ministers, signed a series of agreements, protocols, declarations, in particular the declaration of economic and trade co-operation. 23 Croatia's entry into the EU has contributed to this, with all the problems that things are intensified on all grounds here, and it should also be clear that we have problems, and serious problems, about the trade agreement and the pressure that Europe is working on us from the fact that we are bordering more than a thousand kilometers with Croatia. We think that the decisions we made were in the interest of protecting our economy and our citizens. A cross-border transport agreement, signed and initialled the first border treaty with Montenegro, was concluded as the first confirmed border between the countries of the former Yugoslavia. A joint statement on the interpretation and application of Article 11 has also been signed. Agreements on free transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia and Lucy Ploce and through BiH territory in Neum. The Council of Ministers continued to carry out a number of other activities in the context of existing capacities of current political opportunities or difficulties, but they are all listed in this Report by each institution individually. I thank you for your attention and opportunity to present this summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4513	Thank you, Chairman. We're opening a debate. He's a colleague of Ivanic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4514	As someone from the opposition, normally, I should have a few remarks on the Council of Ministers, a thick material, when we're looking at what's really done, except for the list, it might be hard to extract something essential. And to be honest, I don't blame Mr. Bevanda for that, I even think he's proven to be a more skilled politician than many who think they're politicians, because he had the Council of Ministers who were the most formed and in which there was the most change, and in which almost all parties participated, and they abandoned him, and yet he managed to preserve his dignity in all of this and he didn't get very involved in these political gaps. But basically, when you look at what's been done in a year, you won't see anything serious. And that's some kind of warning to all of us as people who deal with this business in the terms of a country that is economically very poor. But it's not the main reason, it's just a remark. Why I answered more is this part of the report dealing with various agencies that we have at BiH level. There was something that these young people now call mantra, such as more BiH-level institutions, is stronger BiH. And then another page had, your mantra telling independent administrative organizations not to answer. You today, when you look at how many independent administrative organizations we have no idea what they're doing, who have only one obligation once a year to deliver to the Council of Ministers and such a council of ministers formally accepts it, and we have no idea what's going on there. Here are four examples, I apologize to the people who are taking them and the people who are employed in them, but do we really have to have an Agency for Preschool, Primary and High School and Higher Education Agency? If we're going to rationally think about what's the point of that? Do we really need to have the Agency for Work and Employment from which this report shows that they are doing nothing but collect technical data and assists in social security negotiations together with entity employment agencies? What do we know, I mean, what do people do? Maybe they're working and we don't know. Oh, my God. What's the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency doing? At the time international pressures have been made, there is no minority replacing people that this Agency does not form. Today we have a group of people who receive fine salaries, decent, nothing special, they've fired a series of investment conferences around the world and nothing. Instead of having five employees, that for this money, for this million and a half open tender, we attract a serious agency from the world that will look at our legislation and say, you need to change this and promote the possibility of investment around the world. No, we'll fight here again, it's a national interest that there's an agency. And I ask you all, "Who knows what's going on here?" What's the insurance agency doing? It's one time, it's going to have to come when it's time to essentially talk about these things, not more formally and not from the usual corners where everyone's looking at it. I assure you, first of all, that a good agency should not be an independent administrative organisation and that it must answer to someone in order for something to know what is going on at all. I don't mean these communications regulators and these other regulators that are clearly autonomous. But some of these are classic administrative, if they are, I don't see why they wouldn't be if nothing else were to be responsible for the ministry, so that tomorrow we know which ministry is appropriate,...to influence. Well, people, that's, I think it's natural and normal. This way once a year, they formally report on this, as we formally receive this, so they receive from all these powerful agencies, institutes, directorates, and no one knows what's going on. It's probably not the time for that right now, but that kind of debate will have to be opened for me. And that's one thesis that I really honestly think we should try for once, if, I don't think this consummation is going to be a stand-up but that once it has to be done and we need to get out of these old classic things, but to see what we really need and what we don't need. What needs to be done is, can we narrow it down, can we narrow it down, and I've cited just a few examples, I haven't gone too much detail, I could say more. Because if you have a banking sector that doesn't have a Banking Agency at BiH level, it's regulated by entities, as I would say these, what are called, are these agencies, institutions, which could not be, say, this insurance, and that key principles are held by the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, key principles towards the world. What's the problem? What's the problem? What's the problem? What's the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4515	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. The truth is this is the 2013 Report, but it's always time to talk about these things. A fellow Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4516	I thank you again, Mr. President. Well, now you've given me creamworth, so today is the 7th month, and we're discussing the 2013 report. Here, what we received as an act towards us members of the House of Peoples is that this report was adopted on 20.05.2013, which is a technical mistake, but what I mean. So, really, when you look at this and the content book, it's not only thick, I think, the methodology is well done and the new methodology is applied and it's certainly to welcome. But the fact is, therefore, that the examination of the Report and the role of Parliament should be, come on, at least one month after the end of that year, so that, based on this debate, there may be some suggestions for the year in which the Council should act. And it is a shared responsibility, and I do not see that it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers alone, but also of Parliament. What we heard from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would not enter the political evaluations of the Council of Ministers' work, because it is a responsibility primarily for policy and for those of us who have received the mandate for it both as representatives and as representatives of the parties. I would like to say that he himself explicitly said that the biggest failure for 2013 was a failure in reaching agreement and compromise on the coordination mechanism. If this mechanism of coordination, here in that previous point we saw, there is no, if there is no such thing as a 25 prerequisite to use these funds of the institution, then all together we can tell ourselves that we haven't all met that kind of expectations together, not just the Council of Ministers. Secondly, I'm missing one very important grade here, not because we're now building a relationship with the Council of Ministers, but after these elections, this is now another two or three months, we have nothing, don't kid ourselves. So, we need to see if the next Council of Ministers can be formed within a month in accordance with the Constitution, whether they can establish communication with the BiH Presidency, with the BiH Parliament and be a locomotive in that triangle and then, in cooperation with entity governments and lower levels, hold a kind of energy and dynamics in line with the Constitution and the Council of Ministers Act. That grade's gone. I don't think we've all met our expectations here together in that chain, not even Parliament. Because some of the laws that the Council of Ministers unanimously passed we didn't adopt them. That's the facts. So it's not just the Council of Ministers. But also, if you take a table review done by methodology, here on page 243 you can see what institutions within the Council of Ministers have accomplished and how much they have realised from the programming obligations and tasks they have had for the past year. Here, Mr. Ivanić, since you asked for the Security Agency, it says here that of the three programming tasks none of them have been realized. Here's the answer. So zero percent. So we have for others a percentage of success, and it goes over 50 percent, and if that's a criterion, let's go. But essentially, essentially, and I will end it, there is no political environment that we as parliamentarians and as party representatives have created for a better work of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers in a specific role, which is not a classical government, as we all know, did not have enough initiative and communication towards other institutions in a way that dictates the pace on the implementation of these issues. And it's my biggest grudge, I mean a grudge to all of us, but that grudge absolutely stands and it must be corrected after these elections, because the Council of Minsitarians must actually be that, regardless of the limitations of constitutional and legal competences, this locomotive that will move things in public and in the international plan and towards Brussels, and towards neighbours, and towards the governments of entities, and by other institutions, and in this sense press Parliament in a way that it also plays its part. We also saw here when it comes to the presence of committees, to the consideration of the law, that it was not at a satisfactory level. Here I would not use some assessments more difficult, but I think that this reduces one role of trust and joint coordination between the Council of Ministers and the competent parliamentary authorities, and we need this in the future as a common response, so with the debate through the competent committees, with the competent opinions of the Council of Ministers' representatives, we are really all working together to adopt quality legal solutions. And here, this debate of mine is only in operation, so that we all take advantage of these lessons together and that these mistakes, I would say to all of us, let's not repeat after these general elections in October 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4517	Okay, thank you. A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4518	I thank the chairman. 26 And I will, of course, speak in the context of results without any connotations regarding personal or I do not know this, or that, I will talk about the fact that we have a Council of Ministers, which is indeed a Council of Ministers, which is no government, and I will talk about the fact that every Council of Ministers has its parliamentary majority, and, most of all, the result that ultimately shows the co-operation and coordination of that Council of Ministers and that parliamentary majority. It's that simple. When everything comes under, what happened in 2013, it's very difficult to find a foothold to say that it was also a successful year. It's just like that. It was a very unsuccessful year in terms of the Council of Ministers' results and it reflects, and I'm talking more about it as a state that has one trend and an eye to talk about and see what to do, what to change. We have received a report on the work of the Council of Ministers which is a good difficulty, I think when the scale on the scale, in which it is quite so, I would say, in a summed way, that one institution, one ministry, another ministry, institution, all collected and shown in the Council of Ministers' Report which shows, so what was done in these institutions, in those ministries, in fact listed, etc. However, there is little more synthesis than I keep talking about, the Council of Ministers regardless of what the Council of Ministers is, it is the Council of Ministers acting as an institution, as an authority, and we, around this report, have three pages of synthesis at the beginning of the opening part and then cross over the ministries, agencies, etc. The second thing, what is the subject of this analysis and synthesis and the whole body, is that I take action and watch what is only the Council of Ministers, which is the Programme of the Work of the Council of Ministers for 2013 adopted only by the Council of Ministers. The programme provides for 70 laws to be delivered, prepared by the Council of Ministers. It was prepared by the Council of Ministers for 28 or 29 laws, depending on how it is viewed. So it's not half or half. It is, therefore, the first sign to say that the Council of Ministers has not done half the work it has planned. On the side of the Parliamentary Assembly, the inaccuracy of these laws, which, in some ways, can also be observed by the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers has a parliamentary majority behind it. So if the Council of Ministers with that composition proposes laws, it is meant to be supported by the parliamentary majority behind the Council of Ministers. Of these proposed, it is again halved by those adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly, and that is so. Unfortunately, two laws, the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on conflict of interest as the results of the Council of Ministers were mentioned last year. That happened last year. It would have been far better if the Council of Ministers hadn't proposed them and that parliamentary majority hadn't adopted them. Why? At this time as a consequence of the amendments to the Law on Public Procurement and the formation of those famous exposures of the Office for the Review of Appeals and Teamings of the Office for the Review of Appeals. First, we had until a few months ago, eight months ago no one solved complaints below 800,000 marks. In one period of eight months, no one solved the complaints. The damage must occur, the damage will occur. Who's gonna be responsible? The second thing, at this point in time because of the maneuvers and adventures with the appointment of the Board of Appeals, we at the Board of Appeal have, I think generations of members of the Board of Appeals of which no one knows who the current generation is. The current situation has been appointed new, etc., and we will likely have two-stage decision-making unless all BiH courts are busy with the question of who is a member of the Board of Appeals. The third thing, the Law of Conflict of Interest which has been proposed and adopted, believe me, is such a joke in terms of uncertainty, indeterminateness, inconclusion, that we are tormenting in the end to determine what is the Office of Support for the Commission, what is their status, whether they are in the Agency, who are in charge of them, what is the protocol, whose protocol is the Commission's protocol. The solution is under way, it's been going on for 8 months, and it's still going on to resolve these issues. 27 Unfortunately, these legal gaps and those questions that are not prescribed anywhere in the law are said only this car that was driving on diesel from tomorrow to tomorrow goes on gasoline, period. No car intervention was performed, not one, we were told in the law going on gasoline. And we're trying to turn the car on by 8, the car won't get gas because it's not adjusted, he still wants diesel. And that's what's going on right now. As a consequence of the next law, the conflict of interest in the Federation and the Brcko District has been destroyed, abolished, no one solves it, because no transitional period is foreseen by law. Therefore, in this third period, since the amendments to the Law amending the Law on Conflict of Interest proposed by the Council of Ministers in the past year have been adopted, so far in the Federation and the Brcko District, no one has resolved the conflict of interest. The consequences of that will follow. The process is under way, the situation is still going on. So no one solves a conflict of interest. Now, I wouldn't talk about any other laws. As the chairman of the Council of Ministers said in relation to earlier Methodology, we have indeed proposed to the Commission on European Integration for the previous report that the issue of European integration and the implementation of plans related to European integration should be shown in particular, given that we believe that this is a priority, the importance of this, and that in one systematic way, there is this, and I really thank the Council of Ministers, the homes adopted that conclusion, and so it is done. For the reason that in previous reports, you know in the work of every agency, etc., institutions, ministries, you had a chapter of European integration and when you read all of this, this text, and when you add it all together, you still have no idea in one place about European integration. That's the good part, and I'll look back on that report. However, someone earlier said, I think, Mr Ivanic, about these independent agencies and institutions that there are both independent and independent institutions, it really needs to open the story rationally and usefully. What I know for sure lately is the safe work of those agencies is that they write reports every year. And another job is to come to the commission and talk about the work of those, the commission. I am a member of the Commission for European Integration, a member of the Commission on Economic Reform, the Constitutional Commission, the Commission on Human Rights, none of these committees were attended by any minister when a report on the work of the Council of Ministers was discussed. They came by some standard certain directors of the agencies that are related to the ministry, you know. And now, instead of these agencies responding to the Council of Ministers and the ministers coordinating their work and seeing and making recommendations on what to do, you know there are six or seven directors of the agencies, talking about the work of the agency, and there are no ministers, and we're talking about the work of the Council of Ministers. So that's inadmissible. On the committee, if we want to discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers should come a representative of the Council of Ministers and discuss it in such a way as to suggest, to state, to see where the problems are, etc. As you can see today, I thank the chairman, Mr. Čolak and the deputy minsitarians, but we have here today... a team of the Council of Ministers. The House of People is considering the report on the work, we have 2 or 3 ministers. As for the European Integration Report and which is specifically attached, it must be further developed in both methodological and content terms, as you can be careful, in the 26-page Report 6 is prescribed from the Report on BiH's Progress. That's not necessary. The second thing, in the report on the implementation of action plans, when it comes to results, the Action Plan to overcome the consequences of the accession of the Republic of Croatia, we only have the issue of border crossings resolved. Property legal relations nothing has been done, border issues nothing has been done, working legal status of workers nothing has been done. So now I'm talking about results, objectively, why it's not and how, I understand but these are results. The next thing I know, I'm sorry I'm already seeing that, it's only been 20 seconds if I can chair, what's particularly worrying and what's finally a failure and the 28 consequences of failure, when you look at the IPA asset issue. So, canceled projects... 2.4m euros, cancelled Pilot support for implementation of IPARD's 3m-euro measures, cancelled technical assistance to the tourism sector 700,000 euros, cancelled support for the introduction of a 1.8m-euro quality management system, a cancelled project for strengthening the 1.5m-euro strategic planning process. So two projects are united to strengthen support for the Human Rights Ministry 2.2m and technical strengthening of the ministry's 0.8m capacity, so 3m euros are cancelled. Therefore, the reduced funds for 2013, halved from the IPA. Negotiations on IPA 2 for BiH have been suspended. BiH included in the IPA only 14, 15, 16, and the 17th year, unlike other countries that are up to 21 years old, and in the 3 years that we have been given halved funds, instead of 100 million each, we will get 50 million each. And finally, there is nowhere here what the Council of Ministers has done or what it has tried to do and what it could not have done anyway, to prepare strategic documents for sectoral strategies, because this is a condition for IPA 2. It tried, it couldn't, because you and you, etc... There is no information about the preparation of IPA 2 and no information on the cancellation of the subcommittee. Like any state that's president to us have canceled subcommittee sessions on multiple occasions, we have no information on that. I mean, whatever it is, whatever the reason for this united information should be... because it's very important. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4519	Thank you, fellow Genjac. Word has a colleague, Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4520	Thank you very much. Here's another hello to all of you. I was just a moment ago when, I think, colleague Raguž should have taken his word, said we were still only discussing the Council of Ministers' work report for the past year, nothing more than that. And I think that we all know that the law regulates the work of the Council of Ministers and all those institutions... organisation and by horizontal, but also division of competences and by verticals are divided and I fear that, of course, we can talk through these discussions and in the function of the time in which we are discussing, that we are very clear, and by all other points of the agenda we can discuss and offer solutions. I understand that the campaign has begun, the truth has no media here, so we are mostly talking about ourselves, so we will not be able to do a great marketing effect, which is why I understand those who do not report to that end, but simply to comment on this, but it would be good to talk only about the Council of Ministers, aware that, apart from fellow Ivanić, all the others we discussed today were part of the parliamentary majority in certain phases appointed by the Council of Ministers, and in 2013. And as it is working at the Council of Ministers, all of you who follow the work of the Council of Ministers are clear to you. It is not only the sum of this Report, which is really methodologically depicted as the sum of all those institutions, agencies and all that is related to the Council of Ministers, but also the sum of all that is in the Council of Ministers itself, including such or such parliamentary majority. And remember, not to thank the HDZ Ministry, or the ministers are here today, and they're always here, so I can catch some points for not being obliged, but basically when I voted for the shift and Mr. Radončić here, I said let's not at least change in the final year whether or not we should discuss work. And these days when the second House debated the foreign minister's shift, whatever I thought privately about him, we said let's not do it because it doesn't make any sense, we're going to shut down the Council of Ministers. So whoever discusses the work of the Council of Ministers for 2014 will find it even more difficult to criticise, etc. I would not be here to discuss what we should do in BiH, so that we should transform and reorganise everyone within BiH, because most of these discussions are going that way. We need something this much or so, but what we have today and what we had in 2013 is the result of our work in the Parliamentary Assembly, including the House of Peoples here. How much we have contributed so far that the Council of Ministers is not fully in the hands of political leaders or political options which, in some ways, have been given the space to act through the Council of Ministers, and then it is quite logical that both the chairman and the other ministers in the Council of Ministers, because by the structure of each ministry again, something similar has been done, combining national and political, and we always have blockades. Well, you saw just now one of the reports of one of the mechanisms that was supposed to talk about the floods was made after, here's how much time, etc. We... we delayed the session here because we couldn't talk about these things seriously, etc. Which means, I'd like to ask you all, I'm going to suggest, of course, that we accept this Council of Ministers report, that when we talk about the work of our executive authority that we stand behind that executive authority. It is very clear today that we do not have a parliamentary majority in BiH clearly recognised, and this is seen every day in our work, and that we should view that year exclusively as the work of the BiH executive authority or the BiH executive body segment according to the legal framework we had in that calendar year as such. And you're foreign, I think the report correctly reflects how it was done in the Council of Ministers and in all the institutions that are related to the Council of Ministers. We can say whether some institutions did good or bad, it's something else now, but it's a sum of it and nothing more. And you are foreign, here I will make it very clear, I will support this report with all weaknesses about the work of the BiH-level executive and legislative authority. Thank you very much. I don't see any more application for a hearing, I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. If there's a need to chair another comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4521	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4522	No, I don't. Thank you very much. I propose we vote on the 2013 Council of Ministers' Work Report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 12 – for 8, versus 4, abstentioned no one. Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, RS 2 for, 2 against. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree that a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2013 has been adopted. We will now also vote on the conclusions of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly that I read to you when I had the opening presentation. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 12 – for 10, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 8 for, RS 2 for, 2 abstentions. We have a general and entity majority. I find the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. 30 We move to the next point, Ad. Seven. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH Institutions, delivered by the Parliamentary House of BiH You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the proposal to amend and supplement the single rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions, and proposed that the people's House accept this act. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Judicial Commission, Mr Simić, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4524	It's like an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4525	It's like an opinion. Thank you very much. I'll give the word to the proposer if there's any need. There's no representative. I am opening a debate under this proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules. There's no application for a hearing. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions in line with the proposal of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attendance 11 - all for. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 3 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree on a proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the making of rules in BiH institutions have been adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Possibilities for the Effective Work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency", material of BiH Institutions Audit Office You've been given the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. The Committee accepted the Report with recommendations contained in the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. The commission also adopted the next conclusion, and suggests that the House adopt it. – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Corruption in BiH institutions, which are covered by the Impact Review Report, to report to the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within 6 months on the planned and undertaken activities in the implementation of the recommendations from the Report, and to meet the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions. 31 The House of Representatives adopted the Report at the 69th session, since 03/07. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. _________(?) There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4540	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4541	There's no need. Thank you very much. 35 I give word to the Reporter, if need be. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this report. I don't see an application for a hearing, I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of the police structure for the past year and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of the police structure for the current year. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 – for 10, abstentions 3. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 abstentions, RS 4 for and 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH's police structure for the past year and the Work Plan for this year has been adopted. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2013
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4546	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4547	Excuse me, colleague Tadić, do you want to repeat the voting procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4548	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4549	Please restart the voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - 6 for, v 5, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, RS 3 against, 2 abstentions. We have a general, but we don't have an entity majority. We're going to agree to the College according to our procedure, which we'll do later. We're going to the 15th agenda, Ad. 15. Consideration of Magdalena Papić's resignation as elected member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Office for Discussing complaints among recognised management law experts from the Federation of BiH Mrs Magdalena Papić sent a letter to the Parliamentary Assembly on 26 June, which refers to the elected member of the Office's office to discuss complaints between recognised management law experts from the Federation of BiH. At its 69th session, of 03/07, the House of Representatives resolved Magdalena Papić's duties as member of the Board of Appeals. I'm opening a debate. Do we have any comments? I don't see the application. I don't see any interest in the application. In conclusion, excuse me, colleague Krišto, was there something wrong?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4551	I thought I'd call back later, but you should know it's within this same point. I'd like to suggest a conclusion, so in a sense, after the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4552	Okay, thank you. So, we are voting on the discharge of Magdalena Papić's duties as member of the BiH Appeal Office on a personal request. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - 10 for, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 abstentions, RS 4 for, 1 abstention. We have a general and entity majority. 37 I agree that Magdalena Papić has been relieved of his duties as a member of the BiH Appeal Office. Now I'm asking my colleague Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4553	Thank you very much. Since we have resolved our colleague on a personal request from the board of directors, let me say, an expert, whether, in the field of the Board of Appeals, I would suggest a conclusion to this House in which we would oblige the Council of Ministers to submit a proposal from the list of successful experts in the field of administrative law to fill the vacant position, taking care of national commitment, or representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4554	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Do we have any other comments? I don't see, I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We have a conclusion. I'm asking you to initiate the voting procedure on the conclusion of my colleague Krišto. Thank you. At present 13 - 9 for, 1 versus, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 abstentions, RS 3 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I find that the conclusion proposed by colleague Krišto has been adopted. On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement to ratify agreements, protocols, contracts and amendments to agreements. I propose that, in accordance with the practice we have so far had, a joint discussion and a statement on granting consent to ratify agreements, protocols, contracts, amendments to the agreement referred to in points 16 to 25, including point 25. I'm opening a debate on this proposal for a joint debate. Please, since there are no reports, initiate the voting procedure for this proposal. Thank you. Attending 13 - all for. Federation of BiH 8 – all for RS 5 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. The proposal was passed. Ad. 16. - 25. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, protocols, contracts and amendments to agreements You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. I give my word to the President of the Committee if there's any need. A colleague of Hodžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4556	38 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-10-0.u4557	There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements, protocols, contracts and amendments to the agreements referred to in points 16 to 25, including item 25 of the agenda. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - all for. Federation of BiH 8 – all for, RS 5 – all for. We have a general, I have an entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, protocols, contracts and amendments to the agreements referred to in points 16 to 26, including point 25. And now just one piece of information for colleagues who we haven't... at least while we've been discussing today through certain committees and our College, we've previously agreed to leave the possibility of having a session of the House this month 25. Since the House of Representatives has a session of the 24th, we believe we'll have enough ground to hold that session and schedule, so here's more preliminary information to plan our time, and that would be the last session of this month. Thank you very much. Session completed 13:45.
