ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23073	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 73rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, and representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The session was justified by representatives Azra Hadžiahmetović, Petar Kunić, Mirsad Đugum, Zijad Jagodić, Amir Fazlić, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, Mirza Kušljugić, Emir Kabil, Aleksandra Pandurević and Mladen Bosić. According to the information service, 25 representatives are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-37/14, of 23.09.2014. Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-35/14, since 15.09.2014. (first reading) Point 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Second Amendment to the Agreement on Loan and Message of 23.02.2010 and to the Amendment to the Agreement on Loan and Project of 15.12.2011, amounting to EUR 71,000,000,00 between KfW, Frankfurt na Majna (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the JP Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community Herceg-Bosnia d.d. Mostar (EP HZHB) (Project Implementation Agency) – Wind Power Plant Mesihovina, number: 01,02-05-2-1023/14, since 18.09.2014. The previous agenda was removed from point 15. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers regarding the exercise of former workers' rights from the Republic of Croatia with the citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are gathered in the Association of Citizens of Fired Workers from Croatia UGORCRO-BiH from Jelah – the municipalities of Tešanj and the Republic Association of Workers and Persons with Disabilities from the Republic of Croatia, and are citizens of 2 Bosnia and Herzegovina from Banja Luka (responsed in response to Asim Sarajlić's question at the 67th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.05.2014.) Act No 01-50-1-15-67/14, 01.07.2014. Point 18. Consideration of the initiative of MP Nermina Ćemalović from the 70th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.07.2014 which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. I refer the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to the BiH Council of Ministers, which reads: The BiH Council of Ministers should submit the Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Second cycle of the Universal Periodic Review on the state of human rights in BiH to consider and agree with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH before sending the UN Human Rights Committee to Geneva," number: 01-50-1915/14, since 24.07.2014. Both points were removed at the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics because the session of the Committee was not maintained by the lack of quorum. The Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs has asked the House to make its statement on the following conclusion: The Committee for Foreign Trogition and Customs of the House of Representatives is to hold a meeting on 25/09/2014 to discuss the proposal for a Law on Customs Policy in BiH, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House. I can only say a little bit about this, so we've got this Customs Policy Act with a sign that it's being considered by a hasty procedure, a regular procedure. Yesterday, the College sent it to the competent commission yesterday to consider this material and deliver its opinion. The College, the Constitutional Commission delivered, the commission, therefore, informed us by letter that because of the material's abundance, it was not possible to do so this morning before the sitting itself, and here, suggested that the House adopt this conclusion. So in case the House adopts this conclusion to the commission, then we'd give a half hour or an hour's break to the board, depending on how long it takes to try and get that opinion. So here I am putting this conclusion to the House, which was proposed by the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, and the conclusion is, I repeat: The Committee on Foreign Trogy and Customs of the House of Representatives is in charge of holding today a session of the Committee on Customs Policy in BiH, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Who's in favor of this conclusion? I can conclude that we have, to put it that way, general but we don't have the necessary entity majority from the RS entity. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here's what I'm thinking, at the suggestion of a colleague from the College, let's repeat, therefore, a plea. Prepare for reenactment. Vote now who's behind this conclusion. 3 So we have both the general and the entity majority, so this conclusion is adopted. So, I'm taking a break until 11:00 a.m. when the commission should give us a proper opinion. /
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23079	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will ask the question, and I would ask, given that Mr. Bevanda is here chairman of the Council of Ministers, I will directly ask him the question, he can immediately answer the phone for a pay phone here in front of this House and in front of the entire BiH public. The first question is, since this Parliament has brought about the budget rebalancing that has been proposed to isolate 9 million KM – are these funds realised and how they are realised, and does the population locally benefit from it, means that they are usable? Because when we brought it in, I had a skepticism that through state and entity and local administration by the end of the 10th month, here was a full 4 months of these floods, that nothing significant would be restored, not infrastructure, not family facilities or economic facilities. And there was a question of whether, here... The Council of Ministers, since it was mandatory, to present us with the possibility of providing an additional 20 million KM, means within the budget, from funds not implemented as well as liquid grants or investments – Has the Council of Ministers in any way provided these funds and whether these funds have been put into service where they should be. 7 Behold, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers may give an oral answer, I would be very grateful to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23080	Thank you. So we move on to the second parliamentary question, the distinguished representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23081	Thank you. THE Vjekoslav OF TIME
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23082	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23083	I'm sorry, so the president can answer but he doesn't have to, so if you think you want to answer, you can. Please, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23084	...the President, the Honorable Representatives, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I'll give a short pragmatic answer. So, after the adoption of the amending Budget Law and the adoption of the Budget, we are 10 million in total, so together with the contributions that are... staff and what has been allocated to the budget, we have immediately made a decision to the Council of Ministers that these funds are recognised by entity governments to their sub-accounts, with the obligation to respect the criteria of the official assessment made by the institutions of the World Bank, the UN and the domestic authorities. The decision states that simply according to the estimated damages... the official assessment is to be given funds to the county and municipalities. At the same time, it is the obligation of entity governments to give us feedback on how these funds have been distributed. As far as this second question is concerned, it was also relevant for the adoption of the budget itself. You know, here's the end of the 9th month, it just wasn't, there was a technical possibility of just going through the budget, that it was simple, that we did it when we proposed rebalancing, and on that basis we didn't make any other decisions. Here, I hope it satisfies the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23085	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We had another parliamentary question, I mean, is, uh, colleague Niko Lozančić staying on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. 8 I will ask the question, it is a kind of initiative. Short, we are recently, here through reviewing the audit reports to learn that, and some through personal examples,... exchange documents familiar with the enormously high price that BiH citizens pay for issuing driver's licenses. So I'll remind you that 60 KM is paid for issuing driver's licenses and that the form is paid etc. About 4, 5 KM. And I ask the question – Does the Council of Ministers intend to review the decision on the price paid by citizens for the issue of personal documents, especially in the part concerning the price of the driver's license. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23087	Thank you. We don't have any more applications to ask questions. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 23 September 2014 with a request for a preliminary examination. The bill was submitted at the conclusion of the House of Peoples from the 41st session, held on 10 September 2014. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23089	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is about a simple law aimed at unblocking the possible blocking of the establishment of a government, or the Council of Ministers after the next elections, and yet concerning... a candidate for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers and their deputy members related to the conflict of interest. I understand the need of the Council of Ministers to react this way, but I'm afraid what we got today as a proposal is something that can further complicate things. I would ask, so I have no intention of complicated, my intention is just to get a solution that will avoid any blockade of the establishment of power after the elections, and of course my intention is to get a constitutional solution. I am now not going to talk about what has been done about the conflict of interest, I think this is one of the consequences after we practically abolished this institute, so the Institute for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH. After the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest... the conflict of interest excluded from the Central Election Commission opened this issue for us. If we act on this proposal, first of all, we do not know what the competent authority is, it remains to be interpreted. The body has to be called exactly by name and last name. The competent body can be both this body and that body, who will interpret it. Secondly, we are giving this job to the joint parliamentary body of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, so the Commission for the conflict of interest which 9 consists of 3 representatives of each home and representative, 3 representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency. And there are two problems. The first problem is, or three problems, the first problem is that we have to wait for the establishment of the House of Peoples to approve the appointment, for example. The chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, although we can do so within 10 days of the election because it is known, will be known as the composition of the Presidency and the composition of the House of Representatives. So, firstly, technically it must wait for the establishment of the House of Nations which has always shown in practice that it is 2 or 3 months late, at best, after the establishment of this House. The second question is whether the House of Peoples is involved in the process of appointment of the Council of Ministers. If we have in that body... a conflict of interest and has certain, though non-binding powers for Parliament and for the parliamentary commission. ... The House of Peoples in this, and the House of Nations by its definition is a House that cannot have anything to do with the appointment of the Council of Ministers, has to do with reconstructions and shifts, and it is a constitutional provision, but it is a clear constitutional provision that it has nothing to do with the appointment of the Council of Ministers. [[You don't understand.]] It is a feature, if it is detailed, and the thing that is very important for the very character of the BiH constitutional system, because according to our system, the Lower House has been given the exclusive right to confirm the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman and the House of Peoples is given the right to protect vital interests. And it wouldn't be good, we can still do things now, what it means for elections, etc. So, the matter is very complicated, for constitutional lawyers they will understand well what I am talking about, so there is no need at all to play with, say, the constitutional position of the BiH Parliament and the relationship, carefully composed of the relationship between the two homes of BiH, bearing in mind the structure of BiH and the need to be a state of citizens in which its multiethnic structure and protected rights, group rights, group ethnic rights will be respected. But I don't want to talk about it any further, so let's just say, I've brought this up as a hint, which is why, therefore, it has to be taken care of when these legal solutions come together. Third thing, I don't know if you've read enough of the Law on conflict of interest that's changed. It says there must be a man from the opposition at the head of the commission. So we have to wait for one home to be established, and then to establish the House of Nations, and then to determine what is the authority of what is the opposition, because at the head of that body there should be a man from the opposition who will lead that body, and then it should be... who will be the position. Well, I guess the first thing to do is figure out who the position is, so she's chosen, so you know who the opposition is, and then you pick the chairman of the committee. All this together, I don't think it's well-trained, it's not well-read, and I'm asking you to take care of this. So this is why I won't be able to, of course, support an emergency procedure or support these solutions. If you want to ask me where the exit might be then I see the output under a) and the sub b). So, I think that..., so the conflict of interest you have decided to be as it is, for appointed elected officials, it went there to some committee, well, and we will sometimes talk about it when GRECO asks BiH to reconsider it, but let us, on this point I will not, I think that the question of questioning or... the possible conflict of interest of members of the future executive authority and the issue of incompatibility should remain in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission. It shouldn't be passed on to this body. We have a legal solution in the Council of Ministers Act that says it's the task of the Central Election Commission. And we have two possible exits and both are better than this solution that we are offered today. First, it is urgent that the Council of Ministers, if today, we will all be involved, amend and supplement the Council of Ministers Act, in which it will say that the Central Election Commission that does this will take the data from the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, or its Department for the Prevention of 10 conflicts of interest. And point, that's quite enough in the Council of Ministers Act. And then we adopt it today by emergency procedure, so we can call the House of Peoples and solve all the dilemmas. And b), if that's not possible, then it's better to remain this normative solution that we have than to adopt this today, because interpretations can come to the conclusion that this remains the work of the Central Election Commission. Where she's going to get the information on the candidates that's her problem, she can do it from her records, she can do it from this Department of Conflict of Interest, which now works at the Corruption Prevention Agency, has not yet physically crossed there. And it is possible to interpret the Central Election Commission's relationship with the Council of Ministers in the event of an election, i.e. after the elections, so that it does not enter the blockade situation after the election. So that's my thinking of getting out of this situation. Of course, anything that's smarter than this, which can fit into the Constitution, into the law, into solutions, I'm willing to consider and possibly accept it. But please, therefore, what we have today, unfortunately, although I appreciate the Council of Ministers' efforts, is not a solution and is not the way BiH should go. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23090	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23091	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. The story of a potential problem in forming power was created in pre-election times and for pre-election purposes. And here, and counterpart Džaferović, whom we all appreciate as the president of the Constitutional Commission, said that an existing solution without changes and additions can serve quite adequately. So most of us will agree that this is a created story of people who like to come to the paper with bombistic statements that will block the formation of authorities after the elections, who like to be photographed, who like to be broadcast by the media, and the media likes such stories. And most will likely agree that the existing solution, and especially this proposed by the Council of Ministers, both offer the possibility of absolutely no problem in forming power. The Council of Ministers never formed before the House of Nations was formed, never. So I don't know what the solution is, the argument that this should be done before the House of Peoples is formed is simply not politically sustainable. And the Council of Ministers never formed before the majority and the opposition were known, so it is no problem who will be on that commission on behalf of the opposition. By the way, the colleagues of the SDA, they were against such a law on conflict of interest and we settled on it, but they didn't hate to put their man in charge of the commission they were against, just as they didn't hate to put the directors of the agencies at the state level. Here, I invite the media to check every agency in BiH whose directors are. I am telling you that the SDP does not have any director of any state-level agency, and that the SDA covers almost everything and says that they are not the government, and among other things, the director of the agency that participates in the Commission for conflict of interest. So this is a completely unnecessary political story. Is the House of People involved in selecting the Council of Ministers if it appoints a commission? And does the House of People participate in the election of the 11 Ministers if they appoint members of the Central Election Commission who like to present themselves as experts and give us all a lecture, and we all know how to get to that place? So, what the CEC was doing now will work commission. The CEC is elected by Parliament, the commission is elected by Parliament. What's the difference? The CEC is like independent and expert and this isn't. So, let me finish. There is no need for additional powers to be given to the CEC even if the law is not passed if it remains old, because there is a very clear standard and everyone should know that all BiH institutions are obliged to provide the requested information at the request of the CEC. And finally, we in the SDP will support this Law because it is a much more precise solution for all those who like to take pictures and say that this is incorrect. However, I repeat again, both solutions will certainly not result in the formation of the Council of Ministers being stopped in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23092	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23093	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's Saša. He let me be shorter than I'd normally be. I volunteered to rephrase my colleagues to Džaferović on his attempt not to, however explicit, but to imply that this is the kind of solution offered, I repeat the implications, in conflict with the constitutional structure of BiH, which, of course, is not true, and we heard from Saša why it is not true. In fact, the Council of Ministers is not, the House of Peoples, excuse me, the House of Peoples does not exist just to protect the vital national interest, we know it well, the House of Peoples is less equal in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Zatupni dom and all the laws, all the legal regulations adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly must pass both the House. I also believe that this solution, which may not be necessary, is better than the existing solution because it is more precise and opens up the possibility that this formulation of the relevant body, instead of a strictly marked body, as it has so far been within the meaning of the Central Election Commission, should allow any changes to these special laws, to lex specialise the law, that we do not necessarily need to amend this law that would follow, and thus thus creating a wider room in the legislative action. That's it. And of course, HDZ deputies BiH will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23094	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23095	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I could have kept my mouth shut, not to say anything, you'd have a responsibility, and voted against it, of course. You who vote will have responsibility, therefore, against what you vote as well as for the responsibility you will, therefore, be able to vote on that solution which has 12 practically abolished the Law of Conflict of Interest. I didn't mean to say anything about it today, I just said how necessary it was and I didn't want to cause any controversy. I was extremely well-intentioned and then I experienced answers that were inappropriate to my intentions and to what I said. So I can't believe there's a sentence being said here in Parliament -- you voted against the law, but later you acted according to that law. It's an amazing thing, I think. You can vote yes, you can vote against, vote however you want, but when the law is passed I respect this law that you have passed, it's brought by my Dom whose member I am. I was against that law but I respect it both as a member of Parliament and as a citizen of this country. It's an amazing thing to make a statement – you didn't hate to set your man up even though you voted against it. So we're not supposed to respect that one, is that it? I mean, look out, look out for people, I mean, words in Parliament here, I mean. The other thing, this is really carefully composed. Listen to what I say again, carefully communicated every decision concerning the appointment of the Council of Ministers. Well, it's not by chance determined that the Central Election Commission only chooses the House of Representatives. There is no House of People at all roles in the appointment of the Central Electoral Kmission, it is the work of this House. And she's the only institution she's connected to is this home. And it wasn't accidentally placed in 2003, 2004, 2005, when we set up those solutions. And please consider this or reject it, it's your right, but don't just lecture me and don't insult me. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23096	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23097	Here, I'll be very brief. So, what we have heard so far is practically this discussion of amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest that is behind us. I'll say something about what's in front of us. Of course, I have my own opinion, and I showed it when it was being discussed. As far as emergency procedures are concerned, absolutely all the conditions are met, and as far as I'm concerned, I'll support it, because the law is short, the pain is clear and understandable. But as far as the content is concerned, of course I won't, because I didn't support the basic concept in terms of moving this job from the Central Election Commission to Parliament. But I answered for the next one, mostly for the next one. You see this is another example, no matter what the solution is, and how acceptable it is for someone or not, how superficially and irresponsibly accessing certain procedures in the legislation, so as not to consult what is being produced by amendments to one law in relation to another law. So, and then you have what you have in this case. And it's not a lonely phenomenon. For the Proposer's question – if the amendments and amendments to the Law introduce the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, why in these amendments and additions, when it comes to the Council of Ministers' Law, are you talking about the competent body, because you have already defined it in these amendments and additions to the Law on Conflict of Interest? So all this stuff that I was talking about produces a kind of confusion, and when you have confusion in the legal system, that is, legislation, then, of course, a series of possibilities that we've heard about here. Here, I hope I didn't produce any need for replicas, so I want to take a picture, because that seems to be the main topic. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23098	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on item 3 of the agenda. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 72nd session of the House, held on 04 September 2014. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered the report on 23 September 2014. There were no amendments. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations in the Civil Aviation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23101	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is a very important, very important law that regulates the issue of bonds or bonds in air and air traffic. So far, BiH has applied the rules of the former SFRY under the Law on Taking Over Regulations and has applied the European Directives. This solution, as far as I could understand its contents as possible, reflects the EU's policy and legislation in this very important area, as it is about the bonding relations involved in the transport of passengers and cargo in air traffic. So here are all the details and all the possible situations, the European Commission's solutions have been incorporated. The Constitutional Commission supported this law unanimously, and I suggest that it be supported by the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23102	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. 14 We move to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Customs Policy Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered in 15.09.2014. The House College and the Enlargement College at yesterday's session decided to put the draft law on the agenda and was asked by the Constitutional Commission and the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs to deliver opinions on constitutional basis and principles. You've got your opinions. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23104	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. So, of course, this is one of the rules that I think is important, and each regulation is important in its own way, one of the regulations that came to the Parliamentary Assembly in 15.09, that it should be adopted on the benches of MPs this morning and in the first reading. I don't see a single reason, I put it out, regardless of what the Commission has, of course, accepted this, to consider this regulation. And no matter what the result of the vote will be, I want to say a few sentences about this regulation itself. I can't talk about positive or negative effects or the contents of the law itself. It would be inconclusive if I were to talk about the 88 - page Law and failed to get acquainted with the law itself or his reasoning. If that's the case, then there's no point in even making a statement about him. Next, I don't think there's going to be a session of the House of Nations until the end of this call, then there's a question of the need to make a statement about the Law itself in the first reading. Aware of the fact that maybe someone should send a message to Europe that, in some way, would say that we have stepped into this problem, but given what the content of the Law itself is, it is not acceptable for me to pass this regulation in this way. Especially if it takes into account the reasons at which it is originally said to be, it says – the basic reasons for the adoption of the Customs Policy Act in BiH is to comply with EU customs rules. Well, if that's the basic reason, then the fact is, let's say. our European Integration Directorate should give its opinion. And the Commission for European Integration gave its opinion, saying among other things, in the very end, in view of the above, it is found that the draft law on customs policy in BiH is partially harmonised. Which means that the task itself in this first part of the argument has not been carried out. In my view, therefore, this is an additional reason why this regulation should not, after all, be considered in this way. Next, here I am content of the Law talks about very important issues, such as paying import duties on imports of passenger cars when it comes to the period on which they are imported. In particular, this applies to wartime military disableds 70% of the physical damage where such release for wartime military disableds is deleted 50% and 60%. It is then prescribed in Article 208 that the Council of Ministers of BiH will, by special implementing regulation, prescribe the conditions for the procedure for all releases, prescribed by Article 207. Starting from that fact, it is certain that it is necessary to implement these rules to provide sublegal acts that should be passed so that the Direct Taxation Administration should provide additional funds for 15 security of these businesses, which will be provided in part from the Budget of BiH, and partly from EU projects, i.e. IPA projects. All this in itself says that the approach, and what fellow MPs can say about the law itself, I would say that, regardless of it, there are a number of people who are certainly well-versed in the regulation itself, and to believe someone who wrote it, I don't need to believe, I need to read what it says, so that I believe what I have seen or what I am in consultation with people, who I normally consult with when it comes to the laws themselves, came to the views that I would express in the parliamentary procedure itself. It is therefore unacceptable for me to consider this regulation itself. I'm not talking about content itself, it's possible that the content is ideal, there may be shortcomings in it. The issues discussed in the regulations are such that they require, among other things, to get into the problem itself far more. And finally, these are very important life issues, and I believe that MPs in the future will be interested in talking about this issue both in the first and second readings. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There is no reason, if urgency is required, then the first sessions that follow can ensure that this regulation is immediately adopted and that amendment action is allowed. And my natural objection to the Kolegijum -- there's no point in the regulation of 15.09 standing here in the Parliamentary Assembly, we had the Commission's transfers and we held a session of the Commission, we could at least get that material before that Commission and at least consider it. If it had already stood here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it could have been forwarded to MPs for information and dating if nothing else, so at least let us know that we can say something about the regulation itself. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to support this regulation, or the manner and procedure in which it's being accessed by the law itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23106	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23107	Dear Chairman, first of all, congratulations for your House Presidency in the shortest possible term. Secondly, if it weren't for that Džekn... she died and when, or we don't know how long your mandate will last, I'd like to last another two years three years, but that would put together the problems of establishing a new government, which I don't want to, I want her to get in line as soon as possible. The second thing, I just said on the Commission, and now I'm going to do it again, this isn't about the text of the law, it's about him being good, bad, best or worst, it's about the timing of his proposal. The law is proposed in the first reading. So there's no way we can change the law, no matter what he's the best. The second thing is to bear in mind that its entry cannot be, nor will it enter into force without the constitution of the House of Nations. So what's the point of proposing a law like this? If this were the first year of office or the second, I would have voted without a problem for 16 votes, and to say immediately that I was against the Commission, I will be against it today, for the simple reason that at the last session of the House of Representatives we are getting material, and all this stuff that this Law provides, this morning we get on the bench, and now I need 84 pages or 196 pages of some reasoning and a table to look at, and I have never performed in Parliament that I haven't consulted anyone. So the student prepares the exam for a year, goes out and falls. What I would fall on Parliament today, I want a clear cheek to come out of here as an MP, because I cannot accept this so that the best offers solutions. When's this gonna come in, I ask, in effect? Here we are today to give support, and I'm not going to give of course, when will this take effect? When people will benefit from what these changes predict, and chaired by our Commission, Mr Bojić has already explained what this is about. So, five to twelve, not during the day, this is five to twelve in the night, that someone puts me in the process of a law that no one knows when they're going to come into force and when they're going to see the light of day. The European Commission disagreed, disagreed, supported them or them, the World Bank or I don't know who, do they have in mind that this is the last session? I can't change, repeat, influence anything, even if I wanted to intervene, and I don't know what it says, I didn't get to read it when I got this on the bench this morning. So, not to be declared, or me, and especially from RS, Mr. Bojić and I were against, like we're against this, so we're preventing to come into a favourable position, only one segment Mr. Bojić mentioned, disabled to import cars, or I don't know who. No matter how lucky we were to take care of this people, we helped him in various ways. But this morning I get all this on the bench, and now I need to give my support and my term is up, and here's my time, because I'm not going to bother you anymore, it's coming out, nobody knows when this is gonna come into effect. Never. And will he even step in? So, I'm going to vote against, and I don't know who this is, I'm not going to say, to the Council of Ministers for what he's done now, but at the last session, I think it's unserious for the House of Representatives. And the House of Peoples hypothetically assume that they will no longer meet in this assembly, so they will not come into effect. And thank you to the dactylographers for knocking so much, thank you to the Council of Ministers for preparing this, the Ministry and others and a thousand other tables for bringing it out, but I didn't even get to look at this because I got it this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23108	I would like to thank the honourable representative, thank you for my congratulations for my precedent with this House, and I hope that my mandate will not be below the successes of this House so far. Dear Representative Nermina Ćemalović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23109	Mr. Chairman, allow me to greet you and all consent. Here, as a member of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, I will tell you why my colleague Danijela and I were in favour of the Proposed Customs Policy Act in BiH. Mr Hajrudin, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, has said a few things that are certainly important to us, and to the Council of Ministers, normally and Parliament, that we are considering in the first reading of this Law. It is that there are two of these fundamental changes. One is to simplify the customs procedure, to actually make savings in the time and costs of participants in the customs procedure, which is very important. And the second is to bring both foreign and domestic investors into an equal position, and the truth is that domestic investors have long sought to pass this law. 17 It is not clear to me that Mr. Jovičić is against this and Mr. Minister of Foreign Trade of Economic Relations comes from his party, so I'm a little confused here, because I don't know why you're against it? It is true that it is extensive material, that it came to a session perhaps suddenly, but I also believe that this is the first stage of reading and that it is about harmonising with customs regulations, our regulations with EU regulations. And I think the next phase is, in fact, expected to be an amendment phase, and it wouldn't be bad for us to take a positive step, a factual signal towards the EU. Mr Bojić also said the Directorate for European Integration has said that this law is not fully in line with EU customs policy rules, but also part of the suggestion is accepted. And I say, there's an amendment phase where other things can be connected. It is finally time for us to show interest and, I say again, to make this positive signal to the EU and I think we should adopt this law today in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23110	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you and colleague Nermina. To remove all the dilemmas, I am not at all in a misunderstanding with the minister who comes from my party, but there may have been logic, he doesn't have to call me, but here's the chairman's commission to tell him – the chairman support this, this is the position of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers, this is what you need to support today. But I was never anybody's puppet or who called me. And if he'd called me, I wouldn't have listened to him. How will I vote for something and accept it when I see it this morning? I didn't say I was the best knower, so if I had this one year ahead of me, maybe I wouldn't understand what this is about, because everything here is possible and everything is impossible. I was just talking about timing and the time when this law was put into practice, and was it really supposed to be at the last session of Parliament to help domestic and foreign investors? So they get kidnapped, like they walk into the house door, and they all carry money bags, and they say if you don't adopt us today, we're getting our bags back and we're going to invest. Who thought? He's thinking of investing in someone who's benefiting, and he hasn't been bound by my statement whether I'm going to be in or out. So I just volunteered for the replica of a respected colleague, not because I disagree with her opinion, but to remove the dilemma that I'm in any kind of misunderstanding with the Minister or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's been a long time since I've been called from here. What will they call me when they know I won't listen to them, because I have my head and I think with my head and I know what's good for this country. And for this country, it is not good to propose this at the last session when it will not come into effect. What would my grandmother say to Bog when my child and then, never. There will be no constitution, first reading, that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23112	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, 18 Ad. Seven. Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Law Proposal and Supplements of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Act – Proposer: Representative Mirsad Mešić (the law in first reading) The House College has failed to agree on the bill's proposal. There's no discussion here. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and prosecutorial institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (the law in first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23123	Mr. Chairman. It wouldn't be good if this didn't go away without a word, so at least a little bit of taxation would repeat what you said, with a little bit more details. So, on March 29th, I submitted this initiative. We discussed it here in Parliament and unanimously supported it. So we in BiH are all talking about how important the European path and the European perspective is to us, how important it is to us, and in fact in our action we show, at least those who are now leading the country, what their real mood is when it comes to our position on the European road. So on March 29, 2012, almost two and a half years ago, from the moment we agreed here politically that we would just open the debate, make one joint session of both homes and actually talk about what real problems are. I know that in this country there are people who do it heartily and truly believe it and do everything they can to be. There are also those people who in the chain of implementing decisions all make it not happen. So my initiative had, the motive for this initiative was just to separate those who truly do it from those who are in some way obstructing, blocking and blocking the country. If we had opened up in this sense, made one joint session of both homes, we could in one of the most direct ways make the right difference between European-oriented politicians and political parties in BiH and those who actually use it only as a political curtain or political cover. What's my particular grudge? Why are we not in this sense as a Parliamentary Assembly, why we have not shown ultimate responsibility and forced those who are in the system to do their job faster and more responsibly. So, on 29 March 2012, I submit this, on 24 May, this Parliamentary Assembly, this House accepts this. Furthermore, the Council of Ministers made one information that could have been initiated in the sense that we have one material from which this discussion would have started, which happens on 7 September 2012, means exactly over two years ago, and afterwards, the Joint Commission for European Integration also gives its position, even if it is one year late with this relationship, and then the Joint College is again meeting and accepting it, but never after that, there is a realisation and a call for a specific session. So, I've been renewing this initiative several times. Sometimes I used to wonder myself. I mean, what's the problem with doing what we agree on at one point, what is it that can affect us to change our attitude after a few days, months or weeks? What do we need here that we're sitting here, say we're defending someone, protecting someone, standing behind some people and some institutions that aren't doing their job? So, after two and a half years, here's this, we don't have a joint session of both homes again, even though we agreed on it both here and in the second House and at the Joint College. So, we don't have these sessions, we have one item on the agenda today, of course I won't say thank you for having this item on the agenda, which we have as a part of the agenda here, but I think we have to tell ourselves here and send the citizens of our country a clear message of what it is and who at this point did everything to keep our country on the European path completely blocked. I, in that sense, want to say, because this shows entirely our relationship and the relationship of the people who lead the country towards the European path, and I am going to suggest a few conclusions. The first is, I think it would be fair for all of us sitting here and for the people we represent, for us to apologize to the citizens of BiH for a complete halt and a complete blockade on the European path and for this Parliamentary Assembly to do so. Because if we haven't been up and able to stand up for two and a half years, I repeat, two and a half years, realize the initiative and conclusion and the attitude that we have adopted here, then I wonder what we have now, when it comes to European perspective and European stories, promise people... What are we gonna tell them again 22 after, how are we gonna tell them that we're gonna get things that we're so late with right now? So how are we going to say now that we will be able to meet in the next period what has been put before us when it comes to our approaching and joining the EU? So, I propose that the Parliamentary Assembly accept the conclusion that we apologize to the citizens of BiH for this complete stalemate on the European path. This information prepared by the Council of Ministers, I think we can take it to the knowledge and at least what we can say, as I would say, a little affirmatively, that we expect the new Council of Ministers, that the new Parliamentary Assembly, that the new parliamentary majority will have, that it will be completely different and be better than us and that we call on them to accept the European map as their primary priority, and that in the next period, the institutions of government will deal with people who lead this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23124	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the House, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23125	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs. Dear Representative, colleague, Mr. Šepić, therefore, as you can see, as a College, we have respected what is in our jurisdiction and we have proposed both as narrow and as an extended college and Parliament has, of course, accepted that this initiative is on the agenda. What is in the jurisdiction of the House of People, therefore, is not our competence. But what I'm trying to say here. So we don't have any of this here, nor do the citizens of this country have any of us competing over who's bigger and who's smaller, or who's smaller, or who's sorry to anyone. So, because we are ultimately citizens of this country and after these elections, most of us here will not be representatives, or perhaps we will not be in any, so to speak, home, so we will be citizens of this country and we will share all the benefits and disadvantages of this BiH system. And here it is clear that the public should be informed about it, which is the problem of BiH in its impasse on the European path. It is not a problem in lack of political will, it is not a problem in lack of support for BiH's European path, and I think it is actually unquestionable for all political representatives, and citizens, and people here in BiH. The problem of BiH is, to be clear, in its constitutional structure, in its institutional capacity, which it will not be until a fundamental consensus is reached in BiH on what state we want and which way we want it to go. Here in BiH, it should be made clear that our actions, including the work of this Parliament, since this may be my last date for a pay phone in this House in this term, are actually managed by three fears. Fear among one that they might lose the state, fear among others that they might lose autonomy won by the Deytheon Constitution, fear among others that they might lose total political subjectivity, or the right to BiH, rather than manage three interests. And three interests will be managed when we reach this fundamental consensus on BiH. And that's what we need to tell citizens in this country and what we need, to say so, to achieve after these elections. And as for calling out who he is, who didn't really want this initiative to be found or who wanted to find her more, let's not compete over it. So, as I recall fellow 23 Šepić, you were among those who voted against the European Parliament's resolution on the agenda. If not you yourself, then what kind of club are you from? So if we're going to go that way, we're not going to solve anything. So here's what I needed to say here. I believe that all the political representatives, all the citizens or most of the BiH births, most of the political representatives, actually see BiH's European perspective as a solution and our internal ones, and so to speak, both of our wider interests and in any case, that we will seek the next term, i.e. those who are able to realise it. Thank you very much. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the 17th point, Ad. 17. Consideration of information provided on the initiative of Senad Šepić from the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013. (accepted at the 61st House session, held on 30.12.2014) on the subject: "The strategic action of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards ensuring uniform development of Bosnia and Herzegovina", the BiH Council of Ministers act and the government act of the Federation of BiH (the delayed debate at the 72nd session of the House, held on 04/09/2014). I remind you that at the last 72nd session of the House, we delayed the debate on this point. The House of Representatives concluded with the 61st session of the BiH Council of Ministers, the government of the Federation of BiH, the government of the RS, the Brcko District government and other competent institutions asked for information on the stage in which the BiH Development Strategy was drawn up. The BiH Council of Ministers provided the information on 13 March 2014, the government of the Federation of BiH provided the response on 07 July 2014. At the 70th session of the House, held on 24 July 2014, MP Senad Šepić asked for this point to be considered at the next House session. He's directed the Collegia Home initiative. The relevant Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development Opinion on the Information of the Council of Ministers of BiH delivered on 23 September 2014. The Commission took the view that the materials delivered were not adequate for a quality debate on the subject of the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23127	Well, here, I'll try to be shorter. So I thank all those who from the beginning, how we started to talk about one such idea, showed interest and willingness to think that in the next period we would make a fairer country, how we would systematically address issues that would make it easier for all of us to develop better and to live better, to have more justice, to have more harmony within us in BiH. So this initiative has been since 10 months 2013. We've got, in the period from that time to today, we've got a lot of answers from the field. I thank 13 entity ministries from the Federation government, thank the BiH-level institutions that delivered their opinions. And they're mostly, they were totally positive. So it is true that there is no development strategy for a certain period and that is something that is also an integral document that we need to make. What has come from the field so far is to support all 24-way activities aimed at strengthening and developing regional and local co-operation that will result in economic development and reducing regional imbalances. So that's the general thing that fits into this idea that I've talked a lot about in the past. So, given that she has had a particularly positive position at this stage so far, and I will propose a conclusion – so I propose that we accept these materials that have come from the field so far and I propose a conclusion – that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly assigns the Council of Ministers to prepare a proposal for systemic security and even regional development and investment in BiH in co-operation with the entity, cantonal and government of the Brcko District and to deliver it to us in the parliamentary procedure for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23128	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 18. The appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, the proposal for a ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption On 10 September 2014, the Joint Commission submitted a report on the establishment of a ranking list for the appointments of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. The proposal for a ranking list for the appointment of one representative of the academic community is as follows: 1. Professor Dr. jasmin Ferisbegović, 2. Doctor Dr. Eldan Mujanović, 3. Doctor Dr. Božidar Popović, 4. Doctor Goran Šimić and 5. Doctor Aleksandar Faladžić. And the proposal for a ranking list for the appointment of one representative of the NGO sector is as follows: 1. Milica Lakić, 2. Milorad Vulić. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić reported. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23130	Mr. Chairman. We in the SDP are quite surprised by the evaluation made by our Interim Joint Commission, which refers to the selection of members in the committee of the Academian Community. In fact, it is not clear to us that Mr. Ferisbegović can get the advantage of being a doctor of veterinary science and of course dealing with veterinary and agriculture, compared to Eldar Mujanović, a university professor, a professor of criminology at the Faculty of Crime in Sarajevo. That is why we propose to elect Mr Eldar Mujanović in this Commission from the academic community.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23131	Thank you. I hope the proposals come in writing. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 19th point, Ad. 19. Receipt of the Joint Declaration by the Members of the Cetinje Parliamentary Forum (material delivered by the Committee for Gender Equality) On 24 July 2014, the Committee for Gender Equality submitted to the College of the House a joint statement proposing that it be included in the agenda of the House's session, in order to receive it for knowledge. Last session of the Enlarged College, following an additional calendar of activities for September, decided to include this item in today's session agenda. You've got the materials. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. That's how we exhausted this agenda. It's 12:35. Is it enough at 1:00, one hour to approach the vote? At 1:00, meet me for a plea. Thank you very much. /
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23134	Try a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23135	Let's go round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23136	Is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23137	There's a second circle...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23138	So, the College concluded that we're going to the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I'm saying, with 12 votes to nine against five abstentions, so we have a general majority, we don't have 2/3 of the RS entity against, so this request has been passed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the Club of Representatives of the SNSD, we repeat the vote. We're voting again. Vote now. I'm saying with 13 votes in, 14 against, we don't have a general majority. 27 As a member of the College, I propose a reenactment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 15 votes to 14 against, without enough entity majority against the Republika Srpska entity to pass the proposal. And now I'm creating an argument. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23141	Round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23142	It's an ex-consensual match. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Report by the College on the Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aviation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Mirsad Mšić (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree, with 19 votes to, 8 against, 2 abstentions, without 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity, so the law was adopted in the first reading. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Refunds in the Court and Prosecutoral Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 21 votes against, 8 against, without abstention, without two-thirds against votes from Republika Srpska's entity, the bill was adopted. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Commission Report of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Salke Sokolović on the discussions on the reports of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2013, which reads: Supplement to Chapter IV. – Conclusions in the summary opinion on the audit reports on the financial operations of BiH institutions for 2013. Under regular number 2, a new conclusion is added: 2. The House of Representatives undertakes the leadership of 68 audited institutions to take all necessary measures to address the perceived shortcomings related to the development of action plans for the implementation of the Strategy for the fight against corruption and integrity plans. We are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Salke Sokolović. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 20 votes in favour, 8 votes against and without a two-thirds majority against the Republika Srpska entity, we adopted this conclusion. We're going to point 10. – Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the Council of Representative Aleksandra Pandurević on the discussion of the reports of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2013, which reads: The Office for the Audit of BiH institutions is obliged to carry out and to provide the House of Representatives with an audit of the impact of the Delivery Treaty and the establishment of a system for partial personalisation of cards and the upgrade of existing personalisation equipment for the cards, as well as 29 delivery cards and a complete system for the personalisation of electronic ID cards and maintenance of systems over a period of 10 years. We are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 13 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority from the Federation, but without 2/3 of the RS entity. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, no, it came to a conclusion, it came to a conclusion that I was going to say, so the conclusion has passed, there is no 2/3 of the RS entity. We move on to the 11th item of the agenda – Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a House of Representatives of the Senad Šepić to discuss the reports of the Office for the Review of BiH institutions on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2013, which reads: The Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the Council of Ministers to urgently and within 30 days at the latest, to deliver the draft law on fiscal responsibility of BiH in the parliamentary procedure. We are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 16 votes to, 10 against, two abstentions, so without the necessary entity majority for the second round against the RS, we adopt the conclusion. We move to the 12th point – Commission Report of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the adoption of the 2013 report on the work and business of BHRT. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 20 votes to, 8 against and 1 abstention, without a sufficient entity majority against the RS entity, we adopted this report. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Commission Report of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on receiving the BHRT Financial Plan and the programme plans for 2014. We are voting in the second round on receiving the knowledge of the financial plans and plans of the programme. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 21 votes to, 8 against, without enough votes against the RS entity, we have adopted, received this report. 30 We are going to a statement on the 14th point – Report on the work of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the spending of donor funds. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that with 20 votes to, 7 against and 1 abstention, but without enough entity majority from the RS entity, so we did not adopt the report in the first round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23144	Round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23145	We're going to the second round of pleas. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 20 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention, without enough majority against the RS entity, we adopted the report. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the preparation of the Proposal for amendments and addition of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 20 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention, without enough entity majority of Republika Srpska entities, we did not adopt this report in the first round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23146	Round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23147	We're going to the second round of pleas. Prepare to plead. We're voting now. I find that, with 19 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention, without enough majority against the RS entity, we adopted this report. We move to the 16th point of the agenda – Discussion Information on the topic: "The current position of BiH on the European path – meeting the obligations of the Roadmap and progress of BiH in the European integration process" (realisation of the initiative of Senad Šepić, adopted at the 28th session of the House, held on 28.05.2012.), the material of the BiH Council of Ministers. We're voting on receiving information.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23148	We have the conclusion of Šepićev. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23149	No, there's no conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23150	Shall we vote on this conclusion he suggested?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23151	I'm sorry, so we don't have any conclusions on this point in writing. So we're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the Club of Representatives of the SNSD, we will repeat the vote. So, get ready to vote. We're voting now. With 20 votes for, 2 pressures, 3 abstentions, without enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities, we did not adopt this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23153	Roger that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23154	Roger that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23155	Round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23156	It's an ex post adjustment. We are going, therefore, to the 17th item of the agenda – Considering the information provided on the initiative of Representative Senad Šepić from the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013. (accepted at the 61st House session, held on 30.12.2014)) on the subject: "The strategic action of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards ensuring uniform development of Bosnia and Herzegovina". We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, in cooperation with the entity, cantonal and government of the Brcko District of BiH, preparing a proposal for systematic insurance of balanced regional development and investment in BiH and delivering it to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. We are voting on receiving the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23157	On the proposal for a conclusion. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23158	So we vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I agree, with 21 votes in favour, 5 votes against, however, without enough entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity, so we did not adopt this conclusion. This is a private circle, so colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23159	Round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23160	A subsequent alignment with the College's decision. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – The appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption, the proposal for a ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement a procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Mirsad Mešić, who reads: - I propose that the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption be appointed by Professor Dr Eldar Mujanović. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 14 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority from the Federation entity, but without an entity majority from the RS, therefore this proposal has not been adopted in the first round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23161	The SDA re-election.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23162	So at the request of the SDA Club, we're going to vote again. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23163	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23164	So, at the request of a member of the College, we vote again. 33 Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I'm saying we don't have a general majority, we don't have an entity,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23165	SDP club.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23166	The SDP Club is requesting a reenactment. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. So we don't have a general majority, we don't have an entity majority of either, so this proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23167	So who is he going to vote for? Any suggestions from others?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23168	So no, we didn't have any other suggestions, so this, just a little... Therefore, given that we have not adopted this proposal, Mr Mešić, I propose that we make a statement on this proposal to the Commission on the ranking list, where I assume the first one would be then. [[Disable microphone]] Prepare to vote. We're voting now. _________(?) Who's the first...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23169	jasmin Ferizbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-09-25-0.u23170	First is jasmin Ferizbegović. With nine votes against, 17 against, no abstentions, so we're nowhere near the general majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDA Club, I repeat my statement on the ranking list as proposed. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. 34 I find that, with 11 votes for, 15 against, therefore, we do not have a general majority, therefore this proposal has also not passed the Board's ranking list. We move to a statement, we vote on the appointment of a representative of the NGO sector. There were no proposals other than this proposal that came from the Committee, where was Milica Lakić in first place and the second Milorad Lunić (?). Prepare to plead. We're voting now. I find, with eight votes to 20 against, therefore, that this proposal for the appointment of one representative of the NGO sector has not been adopted either. We move on to a statement on point 19. – Getting knowledge of the Joint Declaration of a member of the Cetinje Parliamentary Forum (the material delivered by the Committee for Gender Equality). We are voting on receiving knowledge of the Joint Declaration. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 24 votes in favour, without votes against and with one abstention, we adopted this initiative. But I'm asking for a vote again. So, get ready for a reenactment, I don't know how this got held up. We're voting now. I agree that, with 27 votes in favour and 1 vote against, without the abstentions, we adopted a joint statement by a member of the Cetinje Parliamentary Forum. I'm closing the 73rd session of the House of Representatives. I thank my colleagues and colleagues for their cooperation, especially with my colleagues. I want you all to be well presented, those who are candidates on the lists, and that citizens and people choose well. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:35 p.m.
