ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22889	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 71st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The session was held by representatives: Milorad Živković, Petar Kunić, Asim Sarajlić, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum and Emir Kabil. According to the information provided by the session service, 28 MPs are present. I find that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. As you know, this session has been convened because of the need to give consent to ratification of the primarily financing agreement (A prompt flood recovery project) between BiH and the International Development Association in order to allow these funds to be used since the House of Peoples has already agreed to ratify this Agreement. The College decided to include, in addition to this, all other materials which were delivered in the procedure, which require approval for ratification. Our Foreign Affairs Committee is tasked with reviewing the materials and delivering opinions that have been done, I don't know if the materials have arrived on the table. DEAR LOVE
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22890	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22891	Secretary Dom informed me that they should arrive every minute because the debate is over. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22892	I thank the chairman. I'm not going to propose amendments and additions to the agenda because I know there's no point, but I want to say that it's very incorrect, first of all, that this agreement arrived last Thursday when we were all here and so it could have been, could've just continued and called up the next session on the same day that Parliament's not being exposed to additional costs to schedule another session. But when it was decided to do so within 7 days, we had here at the last session of the debate of MPs who claimed to support that this Parliament was already in the next session, i.e. This one turned out to be, let's look at all those audit reports with the reserve, and I think this is a very irresponsible behavior by the College of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22893	I would ask MPs to concentrate on the day's work without extending the debate outside the Rules of Procedure. We don't have any more logs on the agenda. I find that the 71st session of the House has the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing (Court Recovery Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, No: 01,02-05-2-914/14 of 24.07.2014; 2. Granting consent to ratify the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), number: 01,02-05-2-919/14 of 25.07.2014; 3. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Electricity Distribution in BiH/B, issue: 01,02-05-2911/14 of 23.07.2014; 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Electricity Distribution in BiH/C, issue: 01,02-05-2912/14 of 23.07.2014; 5. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on defence co-operation, No: 01,02-05-2-920/14 of 25.07.2014. And now, therefore, for points 1 to 5, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on all points of the agenda, because it is about giving consent to ratifying material. So, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that with 29 votes for and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we have decided to bring together the debate on points 1 to 5. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22894	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests and the media, I welcome you all together. 3 Here, I can say that in these two days since we have been informed that an extraordinary session of the House of Representatives has been scheduled, there have been little knowledge to study these five agreements, and in each case I have succeeded in doing what I can, regardless of what I will present my opinion, I would like to say a few words concerning the Agreement under point 1. It consists of approximately 40 pages of A4 extremely specific and complex, however methodologically, linguistically rather vaguely, so here only through the legend that I have studied I have come up with words that are often repeated, but they have no unequivocal meaning. For example, as words: additional events, additional withdrawal, additional funding in different terms, different terms are defined. I think the lecturer and translator of this Agreement from English to Bosnian hergic languages, i.e. in the languages of the people of BiH, is not properly translated, so it also leads to confusion in some details. As regards Annex II, Chapter A, point 1.c. The establishment of the Federation of BiH Management Board as well as others is 31.08.2014. I wonder what that means. Will the Management Board be able to establish during August of the month which would lead the policy of sharing funds, monitoring, etc. by this, by these means. When it comes to the grace period, we see that it refers to 5 years, or 25 years in total, 20 years in payment and 5 years in grace period. Furthermore, can all of the elements described in this Agreement be provided, therefore, guarantees in Chapter D — Subprojects, points 1 and 2, which relate primarily to forests, defends more than 3 metres and mined zones? I'd like to know what that means, if there's anyone who can explain it to us, I'd like the MPs here today who are going to vote on this agreement to get information specifically on what this is about. When it comes to the purchase of goods, there is an obligation for international public calls or purchases, so companies will participate as in all other projects, possibly which, at least in the Agreement, will say that they can even register after entering the most possible circle of performers. When it comes to procurement in Chapter 3, point e. – The Association, so the investor will determine and consider procurement contracts, which is very sensitive, that should explain what it is. So in every instance, the Association will have a key word in all the details that we need to be careful about. In Chapter IV – The withdrawal of funds, extremely specific with the maximum rights of the 2006 World Bank Association and guidelines of the World Bank, I am interested, there are MPs who have already been – does anyone know the rules of the 2006 World Bank, who knows and what these guidelines speak about when it comes to this agreement and this 65m-euro asset? The elements of supply insurance must also be acceptable to the Association, so in every example if we want to have an entity that wants to implement the Project must be, that is the time, and that time we will certainly come into the process and possibly problems where the funds will not be able to withdraw, and therefore the time with this Agreement we are obliged to pay interest. But it is also said – interest fees. I think that's the word interest on interest, so it should have been possible to say so. The loan payment plan is 2019 – 2029 at an interest rate of 1.65%. And from 2029 to 2039. 3.35%, on average, it's 2%. As for my personal thinking, credit means are kind of favourable, but I'm also worried if they're not spent in quality, yet that interest is nothing specific or favourable. However, it is also left to the Association to decide otherwise, and it can be far more unfavourable for us. So you would ask at the end of all those who would like to say something about this Agreement, to explain to us that it would be easier to raise your hand for or against. In 4 otherwise, the Commission in this Agreement would be pleased if these funds went into public infrastructure in the right way, primarily to places where the biggest floods, spills, curves, narrowings, floods, etc. to solve any subsequent floods. Otherwise, when it comes to natural persons, i.e. citizens who are affected by this accident, I think it would be good for citizens to have one favourable loan free of charge with a grace period of 3 to 5 years and, of course, at 10, 20 years with the appropriate guarantees the same as for any credit that legal and natural persons use today in the banking business. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22895	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22896	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm asking myself, and I'm asking you, the chairman, you've united the debate on these agreements, on these agenda points, it seems to me... that we should raise our hand within three or five minutes to put BiH citizens in charge of an additional 65, 60, 60, 60 somewhere around 185 million euros. What my colleague Jagodić was saying, I came in here a little bit in the structure, and I pranalized what it says in this Agreement, and believe me, a lot of this is not clear to me. I expect and here I am also a member of the Commission, so, for the foreign affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and here we have a report, so right in front of this House, there is a meaning and a session, I did not attend and there is agreement on this Commission, so I think that these things that my colleague Jagodić was talking about, this is something I meant to discuss, I think that the chairman should, at the end of the opinion, agree on the ratification of Mr Mirza Kušljugić, let's say that he explains each of these agreements to us individually. We, I heard part of the discussion of colleague Pandurević, where we are talking at the last session about the need to convene a session for the analysis of audit reports, so last time we listed some of those reports, I am in principle not on the side of those who, at all costs, should be in charge of BiH's overindebted BiH citizens, without taking advantage of the maximum internal reserves and the funds of BiH citizens who are on various accounts, without any interest from these banks where these funds lie and where I am sure that these funds will not be invested in a fair, adequate manner, because so far it has shown a number of cases. If that were the case, the reactions of a ten-day Japanese ambassador to BiH who said he did not trust the corrupt authorities in BiH in a very non-specific, non-diplomatic way, but he guessed, said the Dalmatinac or those sinjati, in the srid, is whether, I think, since they will be Sinjska alka, you see how the chairman laughs he immediately knows what it is. So I think that the formation of a board of directors is both in the Federation, the RS and Brcko District when it comes to this loan, means that this time is going to get out, and we have this time as we have, and it would absolutely be the most appropriate, best way of local community, county and cantonal and entity authorities to, together with those who are directly affected, mean in these floods in these accidents, to do so, because people are already doing themselves. Waiting until a full list is made, until construction material arrives, until construction teams arrive on the ground they will welcome winter, but outside of their homes I'm sure of it. We will not discuss this at 11 or 12 months in this conference in Parliament, some colleagues want to be here, but I am sure that this project will be nothing at this normal time, at the end of the tenth month, whether, 5 until the autumn rain starts, here even now we have them in the eighth month, and I think there are much better and more efficient ways to solve the problems of the injured citizens in BiH. The second thing, when it comes to, I say, these loans to these power plants, we were here a year ago discussing the enormous resources of the Elektorprenos, I don't know, electricity, etc. which are not spent, which are in various accounts, so I say I would like someone to explain to us what will happen to these funds, what will be and how they will be spent. Here I don't see it..., neither can you chair us, nor has anyone who is this law, here's a promoter if there's someone from the Council of Ministers to explain, because here are the cameras people want to hear why we've raised our hand today to put BiH in debt for 185m euros, it's about as much as I could figure out that this is so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22897	Thank you. Just so I answer the honourable representative, so I haven't eaten the debate, you've united the five-point debate. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22898	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Maybe it's good, the only good thing today is that for the first time we have a special scheduled session where we have only ratification, or prior consent to ratification of the agreement. And maybe it's a good thing that she's probably late, but it's not too late, it's not the end of the world, there's going to be a Parliamentary Assembly after us here, that at the end of the term we talk a little bit more seriously, we talk, we point out all the shortcomings in the current functioning or exercise of our constitutional authority to give prior consent to... agreements. So far, as everyone knows, no matter how much of these agreements were on the agenda, we have united both debate and vote. Here, I don't mind having a joint discussion today, and I'm going to ask for it because so far it's been a practice, if any MP asks for a single statement of agreements, that we individually declare agreements, and I'm going to ask and here I am asking that it be an individual statement. What I would also like to express my regret is obviously none, I will not say bad, coordination between the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly when it comes to this problem, because that there is little more coordination we could have at the previous regular session. Among the agreements we have today at the session is an agreement signed about a year ago. I have to say that I don't know what the reason why this agreement was waiting for a year, what changed in that year, and why, here are the conditions for ratification, and a year ago there were no conditions to be ratified, especially since I think this is a very sensitive understanding that the promoter should offer good quality explanations because we easily approach different free trades, sign free trade agreements and then collude how our economy is threatened by this fact and so on. So I'm asking for an individual statement because I have to say because there are too many dilemmas, I can't just back him up like that. 6 When it comes to new duties and I join colleagues who rightly warn about this fact, unfortunately I do not know whether any other form of flood insurance has been tried at risk and damaged areas and citizens, or whether this was the easiest form. We've seen that we're as state-level, we've shown what we think about it by just outlining seven million and not going back to it. Is the only way new credit obligations, perhaps, I've heard that I have to say from many people in the talks, competent people, whether they've tried to negotiate a moratorium on existing credit debts in BiH, because we have funds to repay loans, meaning which are our operational... without new interest rates etc. I don't know if it's been tried, 'cause it's obviously the easiest credit to take, still, right? The second thing, we have already begun to approve new responsibilities, but we do not officially know in this Parliamentary Assembly how much damage has been caused in BiH, how much in which environment, in which location, at which level of government, local communities, the damage is. How much damage, how many citizens are damaged, how much local infrastructure is, how many other things are causing the damage here, how much damage has the economy suffered? We approach all of this to some kind of trust, that's what we're talking about. I've heard from the media that that damage is somewhere around 4 billion KM, maybe it is, maybe not, but I don't know any other information. It's interesting that no one has bothered to present that information to us and that information and that we have the whole program that we think we have, not in a month here, how do we plan to repair that damage? And if we're going to do the next, I don't know, two or three months, right, while this term or the next four years whoever's in that mandate is going to talk about how dissatisfied the citizens are, because they haven't been remedied the damages that took place a year ago. I said, when we first discussed this topic, we have people who lost their homes 20 years ago and haven't taken care of them, God forbid it happens again to these. And as things go right now, I'm afraid they don't have a better destiny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22899	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. A lot of what came out of everything we've heard from my esteemed colleagues so far, but from these acts that, as one of my predecessors said, we had to read quickly, and it was even three times harder for me to read out loud. But the point is important. I agree with a lot of those who spoke. I am a man of common sense logic, even the most difficult human disasters such as this and the one in which, as Mr. Lozančić said, we certainly participated 20 years ago and now we remember the consequences and how we dealt with them. I'm worried about this rainy situation Mr. Lozančić mentioned. The logic of common sense tells me that in a normal state, everything works normally, but unfortunately contrary to my logic, where my life and the life of people like me rest, it began to apply to the unhappy one where BiH begins to stop logic. I'm worried about two things that I'm just going to mention when it comes to this first item of the agenda. You remember very well all those negotiations when we heard the enthusiastic talk principle with Mr Lagumdžija, who was so thrilled in front of the public and in front of the press that we received much more funds than we expected and suma sumara, if I am not mistaken, crosses the 860 million marks that BiH received. As much as we expected. The quick-to-go answers were on it, we're coming back, we're going to work, these funds are operational right now, we just have to prepare plans and programs and start implementing them. That's the first part of this sad Bosnian-Herzegovina story. The second part I've heard as much as most of you, and I believe that now in this long-term election campaign, you're very closely following our electronic media. There was one report on all the media from the worst part that was damaged by these floods and slides, it was the unfortunate one as if it were... the triangle that was located between Zenica, Zepč and Maglaja, the Iron Field and of course she remained settlements in that part. The polls that journalists conducted with residents who continue to visit places where there are no more houses or ones where they are not allowed to enter them, read literally – no one has ever come to ask us how many of us there are, to whom the houses have been torn down, to whom they are devastated and to assess the damage done. That, gentlemen, was two or three days ago. Then what are we talking about? Debts. As far as duty is concerned, it's gotten so shabby, it looks like we have a new sports branch, let's compete on who our grandchildren and children will owe as much as possible while we have the chance to do it. Whoever does this is a bigger hero. Halalsum, as our people would say. I don't know where this is going, people. I won't experience it, and thank Bog I won't pay back any more debt, but my children and my grandchildren, and I am deeply convinced and yours, 100% fat, fat, sorry for what their fathers and grandfathers did to them. And let it be a shame to us. Is this good or isn't it good, I don't know, you raise your hands and I don't see who's giving it up. But I'm afraid of something else, not to go through this situation as people, even worse than that, going back to my Mr. Lozančić, for 20 years some people, some families, some children, still don't have a roof over their heads. If we work like this, we talk nicely in this House, and we work so uglyly, I doubt these gentlemen will wait 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22901	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members, the guest is few. So there's not much to talk about here. It was a donor conference, but from all these materials, we can see that it was supposed to be called a credit conference. Because it's clear to everyone that no one's giving away money. There's a little help, of course. But what's missing from all these agreements is a crackdown I'm going to do from last session and a decision from the Council of Ministers on how much they're going to allocate the funds. The Council of Ministers was then to make internal consolidation at all levels, so out of its jurisdiction and under the supposed signs to cut all those unnecessary costs and enormous waste and put it into a fund, we can call it the Solidarity Fund, but here I'm going to call it the Fund to help our unhappy and endangered people and it shouldn't be much controversy today. We're in front of a dilemma once, accept or refuse. To be clear, we can't refuse. And what seems to look like these funds are credited under favourable circumstances over a long period of time, interest is Bašić% and all the predecessors, Mr. Lozančić and Jagodić and Mr. Jurišić, as if we now care about this moment who will be returning it in 15-20 years. He'll be back. The key question arises from where. The economy in the collapse will be even bigger. 8 Furthermore, we are today bringing and we need to ratify these agreements at BiH level, and everything is different. The municipalities didn't show up with their resources and reducing budget costs and material costs and others there and wasteland, so we know how much they invest. RS, I'll say affirmatively, showed up with the vouchers and we'll see, but here I see in the ads selling vouchers today. Well, that went right on with the smuggling. Right now, they can't, they didn't even get it, but they've already given an ad to sell, because the people only trust money, what kind of store and what voucher, to whom they carry it. And that tram at the store is gonna take some commission and he's gonna burn it. So things aren't simple for us to break them over our knees today, but we don't have knees today we have to think with a sober head, what we choose, what evil is less than all the evils that have hit us. Secondly, I'm not a meteorologist so I know what's gonna happen. So does anyone live in illusions that a worse accident can't be repeated than I saw last night in Zadar, Belgrade, some other places, where some tsunamis, only they give him some new names. What names should be given to such accidents when it's an accident. It's an accident and call her whatever you want. So if I didn't owe much here, credit is credit, someone's gonna have to pay it back. Our children will bring him back. But from what, when our children have no future to work anywhere. That's the point. It's easy to get something back when a man's in charge and he's got something. But he can't return his coat if he only has a shirt, how will he get his coat back? The logic of life, not the agreement of those we have. I see, the government of the RS, which I welcome and the departments of power have made a positive statement, that this should be accepted. And last year she started out, I'm not gonna say crowds, but the misunderstandings, so the media broke us out, so that's the best expression, why we take from our power transfer agency 100 million, so we're dividing by entities. Now I ask, why don't you take everything they have to help the people, because only August, September and possibly October, winter is coming, what's next? Will those people, as I looked at in Bijeljina, stand there and wait for a voucher and still have water, which would have been said, to his throat and he doesn't know what the houses from those 5,000 marks are going to do and maybe 10 or 50,000, I can't do that assessment. So we have a chance to accept this or not to accept it. But what I said at the beginning, and I need to look around, we don't have a proposal to consolidate the BiH-level budget and what we're investing in. Couldn't a moratorium have been made right away, banned buying new cars in all institutions for the next three years, say or four, banned immediately. So the decision comes into force, when, last night, not today. All that is forbidden and the allocation of funds to non-productive organisations, and then the rationalisation of various agencies, institutions that are unnecessary, which have spent funds that can't justify anything. But no one's going to get into it. And then we could use, uh, we're too happy, these give us. What did they give us? Which they took from us, because we have to go back. And when someone comes back, what do we care? So, gentlemen dear and friends, we have no choice but to accept this, to ratify. And well said fellow Lozančić, we are talking seriously about these agreements for the first time and no one knows how much we owe ourselves to, who, which is the banks, which are the institutions, everyone is looking at. They didn't give us nothing. They took everything they could. Before, because I've said it a long time ago, and I don't bother anyone anymore, no one will give you a lighter if you don't get a pack of cigars and an ashtray before that, because they're worth more than a lighter. When they take that away from you, they give you a lighter as a commercial material because they're writing their company on a lighter so you can promote it. That's how you do it in these agreements. And what's a dilemma? Take it or leave it. I'm voting today to take this, because we can't leave, to help this people. And I don't give a shit, believe me, it's not pathetic, I don't give a shit, I don't give a shit when I see the abduction of the one over there, the one who got the vouchers didn't get one, the one who was threatened more than the one who got some protection, and the unfortunate one or that unfortunate woman doesn't have any bread. What kind of help is that? Whoever went there says, wait for the people, that's all our people, both in Maglai and in Bijeljina, and in Shamac and in all the areas covered by the flood. I wasn't throwing beans, looking at a cup, and what if in 15 days or 10, God Bog, or the moon, there's a new and larger cataclysm, and this can be called the 9th cataclysm of nature and it happens to us. Then what? There aren't any of these. So, I'm sorry that for eight years, at least I, every agreement we've received and this ratification from the Presidency has countered it as a newspaper when someone lets me read and his paper so I look at one text I have to return, because he must take the paper his are not mine. That's how you do it in these agreements. So dear friends, we take responsibility for ourselves today and let's accept this. Consequences as they will be, we don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22903	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica or business?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22904	Replica. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, we never so far, by the way I don't remember, we've been in a situation where we have this big debate when it comes to ratifications. I think what we're doing today is good, and we need ratifications to discuss as well as all the other points of the agenda, but I'm just saying that as a fact. I've answered to say one other thing, and it's just like a replica, about the behavior of this House. I think that today we are in a situation where colleagues and colleagues, so the House of Representatives, goes beyond this point of the agenda and quite justifiable. It is perfectly legitimate and justified that when it comes to ratification of the Agreement which needs to be provided with the means to address or mitigate these negative consequences of elemental disasters, to open a debate on what state we are in today, when it comes to the state's action to address the adverse consequences of the elemental disasters. So I have a lot of understanding about these discussions, too, but I think we're responsible for why we're in this state. We concluded at one of the last sessions, and that's what I want to replicate, when we discussed this topic, that at that session that was two weeks ago, we're going to discuss that agenda point, and then by the end of that month, we're going to prepare a special session of the House where we're going to discuss this issue. We never did that. It's not done until today, it's an obligation, it's the conclusion adopted by this House. The SDA will support the ratification of these agreements, so we will vote to ratify these agreements. I think agreements should be approved. But I beg you as a College, that, we have an scheduled session on September 4th, that either before that session or at that session, however you wish, we realize our conclusion from one of the previous sessions. The response of BiH to all levels of government to the removal of the adverse consequences of natural disasters must be a special point or a special session, as we have concluded and it must be fully clear what the state has done so far and what it will do and when these consequences will be removed. And that's what I want to say today. So, it's an obligation, and I'm asking you as a College, to give us an explanation, why until today was not this session and do you have a plan, or do we have a plan, when that session will be? We need, therefore, serious information from the Council of Ministers on this subject. There's been an international donor conference. A lot has happened. We as Parliament have no information about this and it is perfectly normal for people today, members of Parliament... 10
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22905	Time. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22906	on the concrete points of the agenda, thank you for warning me in the eighth second, I think it's very precise from you and I appreciate it, and I expect you to be consistent in other situations when it comes to this matter. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22907	The Republic has a vice-president, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22908	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I've called to replicate two debates. The debate between colleagues Jovičić and his colleagues, Džaferović, i.e. one debate, another replica. Look, I think it's good that we're discussing these ratifications today. It's about very important points of the agenda. It's about the responsibilities of this country. However, praise the consistency here among us, you know. At the last session, when a decision was adopted to make the rebalancing conditionally said, the Budget, singled out the miserable 7,133,000 from, from the level of the state for the flooded. I voted against it at the time. I think they were representatives of the SDS, of the SBB, and did any of the other MPs say so, individually voted against, counterpart Jurišić, and SNSD representatives, SDA, so representatives of your colleague Jovičić and colleague Džaferović, SDP, were in favour, so to speak. We voted against it, because we thought it was a miserable asset, we felt that the state could and the need could be more isolated and that it could be singled out. So, a colleague of Jovičić, and the purchase of cars, could have given up buying some space for institutions, which will not be realised anyway, because they have never been realised, were transferred to the next financial year. And so, a week ago, we actually define ourselves in one way, today we vote in another way. It's clear that we, why won't we have a session by the end of the month or for the next month, which will deal with what I say, these floods? Well, because we've already adopted, because, under quotes, we've taken off the agenda for the seven million. Therefore, we will obviously all vote for this Agreement today, since there is no other way, because there is no other means. And these are, therefore, the IDA funds of the World Bank that are the most favourable assets, but there are representatives of the Council of Minsitarians, and they will give some explanations, on some of the issues that have been raised here. I just volunteered to replicate and invite us all to consistency together. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22909	Well, you see, Mr. Chairman, you are not the person who will say that we will have or will not have a session, with full respect for your capacity as agent and chairman of the 11 House and respect for that fact. We decided as the House that we would have that session and that session would be, unless otherwise decided by this House. And as for these 7 million from the state budget, of course it's small, that it's insufficient, that it's a savings from what was planned for the functioning of the institutions, but that session shouldn't just cover the issue. It should cover all elements and all segments that are related to removing negative consequences. So, much, much broader aspect. And I ask you to insist with the Council of Ministers that information be prepared and that this session be organised. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22910	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22911	I thank the chairman. Well, I have a need to replicate my colleague Ljubić's exposure, because it's not exactly what he said. So SNSD hasn't changed its attitude since last session. We then voted and voted again, with a clear view of our position, as many others have said, that it is not enough funds but that it is better to do that day too, because the alternative was nothing or nothing, if you will. There was no other suggestion or attempt. Those who voted against nothing offered and there was nothing on the table. So we're still standing on it, we'd do it again, and it means something, but we're still standing at the point, if it wasn't enough and it's not enough to look for and talk about finding the new funds that we're talking about here, but of course there's no consensus and nobody's going to say it. And if it is consistency, then it is not consistent that Croatian ministers in the Council of Ministers are against Mr Špirić's proposal, which asked for a much higher amount, and that MPs here say this is insufficient. It's inconsistencies, and it's not correct, so if we want to talk about things all the way. I don't think there's any MP in this House who thinks that's enough, I don't think. I may be wrong, but I don't think it's there, and I don't think anyone's standing at the point of view that we shouldn't look for additional funds and additional solutions, but without the passing demagogy and these pre-election shifts of balls that are very transparent and completely unnecessary because it's all told a story. And I end up saying that there are huge reserves in BiH institutions, that there are unnecessary agencies there, that there is everything and everything, that there is room for a much bigger amount, not just for floods, but for other social needs that are in entities and that are on the coat of arms of local communities and entity and cantonal governments, but that there is no consensus about it at this point, we voted and we did not change the decision. The observations of Slavko Jovičić, of course, will say it better, stand up and they are in place, but they did not question SNSD's position at all, both at the last session and today's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22912	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovićić, replica. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, a respected colleague and the head of our klub, Kalabić, helped me keep going. I didn't say it before, and I didn't say it, and even we, there's a stenogram, from SNSD, were bitter at the symbolic, so we called them, by the means set out by the Council of Ministers. But I didn't mention that we at that session precisely on the proposal of a esteemed colleague and Boško Tomić, asked and obliged the Council of Ministers to find another 20 million, which should not be forgotten. I didn't mention in the presentation, not what I had forgotten, but simply that it wasn't the subject of this ratification agreement. But I did, as a diet, that the Council of Ministers and Institutions of BiH, everything, they had to have at their sessions, so whether it was called the Higher Education Agency, so they had to have a session of the agency. Because many educational agencies are flooded. They had to have a agenda, too, so to say -- wait for people, the Agency can't spend on higher education, here's to say, a million marks, and they have two sessions. What are they investing in, and what are they giving up, to help train schools, kindergartens, colleges, where they were killed by floods? So, we're, there's a stenogram, not today that I'm defending something. The SNSD could not say we oblige the Council of Ministers to prepare 500m marks for the recovery of floods. That was impossible, unreal. But then we accepted what they predicted, although I can see it hasn't gotten anywhere yet to the end users. That's the problem. What would anyone want with 7 million and 70,000 marks and 5,000 marks next year? He needs it now before winter. This is the essence of our discussion and the efforts of the SNSD to speed up, because if we do not act urgently, there is no such means as to save the people from winter. So I'll do it again. It should not be forgotten and the proposal should remain for the conclusion of a respected colleague, Boško Tomić, to go on 20 million marks of additional funds, plus the 7 million we adopted. Now I wonder if the Council of Ministers has these 20 million, did he find them redistributing within institutions, where they're the bosses, where they're the founders? There isn't. Do we have a proposal to cut the funds to those institutions that we have established, which Parliament is establishing? We don't. That's the problem with this country. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22914	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22915	Your Honor, Mr. President. I volunteered to replicate my esteemed colleague Kalabić, because the story of consistency and inconsistency began. We at the HDZ last session in the debate, in the statement of a hasty procedure, and I will say under the quotes of the rebalancing, were against the hasty procedure, precisely with the intention of creating the conditions for the normal procedure, the normal procedure of the shortened most likely, to allow the amendment to be acted, on that proposal which was such that we verbally, rhetorically, all expressed out of all political options, expressed the uniform dissatisfaction, the small amount of funds envisaged. And, instead of supporting us, my colleague Kalabić, or being unison and unique and about creating, therefore, the procedural conditions that can be amended, so that rhetoric, I will say without twisting, turn this 13 demagogue rhetoric into a concrete, constructive action, went the other way. So then, a colleague from your club, otherwise a colleague I really appreciate, suggested a conclusion now mentioned by his colleague Jovičić, that this conclusion envisions an additional 20 million. The same way could be proposed and adopted, of course, a conclusion that would provide for an additional 120 million. And we all know what the fate of that conclusion will be, as well as the sea of other conclusions, etc., etc. So here, for all of us, for knowledge and alignment, how constructive we are, and how consistent and inconsistencies we really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22916	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22917	Well, it's good that the second line is, I don't see what the replica of my colleague Franjičević is, because I was giving Mr. Ljubić the answer to the story that, if it's possible to be consistent in that story at all, we were still consistent when we spoke correctly and we didn't let anyone twist what was going on. You all the time, come on, when we talk about it, you forget that no one's made another suggestion. Like you just said, it's the same fate of that conclusion and someone new, it's the same fate and regular debate. I think neither you nor I can convince anyone here that within one session this House can agree on 160 amendments, as many as there would be here. And it would take a new year. I mean, you totally know that. After all, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, proposed an emergency procedure, if I recall correctly. Now, I'm putting things back to square one. If this is internal turbulence, if this is directed against Mr. Bevanda, I'm out. I may have stumbled into the trap of these internal accounts now party, so I was careless, so I'm on it. If that's what it's all about, then it's me, 'cause I see he suggested everything, and it's me now, and it's all against him. So, I give up that story, I go back to reality and I end up. The SNSD said last time, we're going to take it, it's a little, not enough, we're going to suggest a conclusion, we're going to commit the Council of Ministers, we're going to work together with others, we're aware of a situation that we can't agree on. Of course, we can now cut our hair with 300 million conclusions, of 500 of this, of that, but I don't think in all that order of action we've been acting in a way that's inconclusive, nor have we made any special promises that are impossible, and that even then we've had attitudes that are certainly consistent today. And I said to the Council, what we know, on the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić's proposal, it was initially 15 million, it's down to 7 and I'm done with it. We had that chance that day, not to take those 7 and in our barren debates that were here a million and that remained in drawers and await the next term. If you think it's correct to talk about this 7 million, and to keep quiet that our second House of Representatives of these political parties has stopped the Payments Act, if it's correct that representatives of some political parties have made it possible to talk to donors about sitting on the other side of people who receive salaries of 4-5 or 6 thousand marks, if you think it's correct, if it's aid to the flooded, it's not. We know by name and by name who's doing what and who's acting like it is, but here, today's probably not the subject, it's probably going to stay the next term, even though it's extremely incorrect, what happened. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22918	Replica, vice president, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22919	Dear counterpart Kalabić, there is no conclusion that in front of us last session there was a decision or 7 million or nothing, actually. On the other hand, there is no finding that the MPs who were against the emergency procedure were for nothing. So we were in favour of not accepting an emergency procedure, so that we could react to this embarrassingly low amount of procedure, and to supplement it, or to give the Council of Ministers that within three days, a week, to this day, here until this session, a week, I suggest that I say, one more decent amount, to be clear, which will be set aside for the flooded. Because we all know, and we've all been arguing without exception, saying it's too small and there's room to be bigger. So that's what this is about. It's not true, it doesn't stand, okay. I've supported the conclusion, but we know what happens to conclusions like that, and I'm afraid it's going to be the same with that conclusion as it was with conclusions so far. But in fact, our efforts for a shortened procedure were on the verge that within three days,...on Monday, to call a new session or on this day here on Thursday, within a week. Here we are sitting here today, we could have ended it today. And the Council of Ministers had time to do so before that. And you all, we forget, in fact, that we from the Bureau received a proposal after three o'clock this afternoon before the House session to begin tomorrow at 10:00. So there was no way to actually react, because it was directed by emergency procedure. And as for my colleague Bevanda, don't worry about him, he's on the list, and at least I, as an independent HDZ man, would mind. Dear Representative, Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22920	I'm going to replicate a little bit of an independent HDZ. Here at the end of the term, we hear it first. I need to replicate a few of these discussions or replicas, if we're talking consistency. You esteemed chairman, Mr. Ljubić, have said one part of my thoughts now here at the pay phone. So all those MPs who were against that rebalancing budget that came to us from the Bureau, where I was against what you said, they weren't for anything, they were for a much bigger amount. I am concerned about a fact here that I have heard from both Mr Franjičević and Mr Kalabić and you, Mr Ljubić, say – what will happen to Boško Tomić's conclusion. So whose Council of Ministers are these people here? Well, yours, yours, Mr. Jovičić, Kalabić, yours, Mr. Franjičević, yours, Mr. Ljubić. And tell them to reach a conclusion and act on this conclusion to this day. To this day, if you are the ruling majority, let's see what fellow Jovičić says, let's see if that 7 million has been implemented in the field or not. When these 65m euros are to be implemented in the field. Well, not at this time of night. He wants it at 12 a.m. when people need it, people are gonna need tents, sleeping bags because he's gonna stay out. I said in my discussion, people will stay out. Because even today, here I am, I don't know, maybe you know from the ruling majority, which are real damage to housing apartments, houses, economic facilities, stables, and I don't know, in cattle that died. Last time I spoke, we had different reports from the field, that 900 head of cattle were killed, up to 15 grand. Now the world doesn't believe us. And that's why I'm saying what my colleague Jovičić said, was this a donor conference or was it a credit conference? 15 So we have options for internal reserves, not to be in debt. I'm sure we don't need to be in debt and we need to be consistent. And what you were saying to your colleague, Jovičić, was that the Council of Ministers had to do something to get them to cut us down. What are they gonna cut? They spent it all. Well, last time we didn't put in audit reports what counterpart Pandurević asked for, let's say they tell us they spent it, not to give instructions where they needed our funds, civil assets, a BiH citizen. But that's why we need to tell them here to do it. We're just like the Council of Ministers, like it's some imaginary organization that's untouchable, that doesn't walk on the ground, that doesn't eat, that doesn't dress, that doesn't drive, doesn't blink there with those cars that irritate both the peoples and MPs, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22921	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22922	So from there, you need to get out of this budget you can take 100 million marks, 100 million marks. Let me go, in three days I'll find you 100 million marks and no one will be damaged and we'll solve all the problems there. And so, if we're going to be consistent, this doesn't need to be borrowed, we don't need to be in debt, we need to use it all. So when we do, I suggest the chairman and that the order be changed, that we sit at the 8th month, after the Great Lady 17th or 18th September and after 28th, and after this Great Lady, and not like us on vacation, we get tired, we work.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22923	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22924	Well, we need to see if people moved in. So, at the end of the 8th month, we should say, we've moved 500 families into houses. You will see, at the end of the day, no family will move into the house, none. I'm sure of it, right here. And we should say to every MP, we're going to rebuild a house from ourselves, we're going to go to the field, we're going to say that you have the same salary and all the directors of the state agencies, we're going to rebuild one house where those damages are, we don't need a voucher to give, but we personally need a man to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22925	Thank you. And here, once again, I ask the MPs to stick to replicas and debates. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22926	I thank the chairman. My replica refers to the discussion of a respected counterpart, Kalabić, who unfortunately went out, but I will continue where Mr. Jurišić left off. I'd say some people here act like the Council of Ministers doesn't have members of their own parties. I don't know if Nikola Špirić is from the SNSD, if Mr. Čolak is from HDZ, because I see conflicting opinions, I don't really know. 16 It's not true it was 7 million or nothing. I was in the Expansive College, and Mr. Ljubić was there, as far as I could see, we were all in favour of refusing an emergency procedure and going into a short procedure. Even a colleague, a respected colleague of Prodanović, can read his media statement where he told the media – the SNSD will refuse an emergency procedure. What happened in the meantime, if anyone called on the phone, or maybe some of the colleagues here were in a hurry to take a vacation, I don't really know. Only the SDP MPs here in the last session were strict and praised, proposed amendments and additions to the Budget Law, all others said they were small, that there should be greater separations, I remember that my colleague Đugum also suggested that the Council of Ministers be tasked 5% to get out of Budget. And colleagues from the SDA were also critical, from HDZ, we on this side all, but when the vote came, everyone forgot what they were saying and voted a little differently. I guess we'd like to rush to our vacation, and I think today's session has messed up some and that vacation. As for the Law on Salaries, which my colleague Kalabić fully legitimately criticises for not finding himself at the House of Peoples, I will remind myself that a respected delegate, Mr. Staša Košarac, is sitting in the College of the House of Peoples, Mr. Dragan Čović, and theirs was to include it on the agenda. Don't criticize anyone else here, someone else is to blame. Let's say the names – Dragan Čović and Staša Košarac are guilty because the Law was not adopted in the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22927	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to remind you of what the agenda theme is today's session, and I would like to say that we have a context in which we address the issue of rebuilding the country in relation to catastrophic floods. And this context is from the point of view of the source of funding next – the funds for reconstruction should be provided from three possible sources. First, by means of own resources which the state, different levels of state-owned, second, grants and third – loans, i.e. by borrowing. This order reflects the fact and preferences that we should have in that sense. So today we're talking about an element of one, a hard way of funding our interventions in recovery that concerns loans, i.e. borrowing. Somehow I've been on my way lately to quote my colleague Jovičić, but here I'm sorry he's not here, he said the loan is a loan. However, I am sorry that I have to, in a certain way, deny it because there is this credit, that credit and third, fourth, fifth, and I would say it this little more popular – there are soft loans, so those who have very favourable conditions, so practically when projected on time payments become a large part of the gift for the recipient. And there are expensive loans. Croatia is in debt on the world market to finance its deficit by 6 - 7%. We'd probably have to pay even more if we went out to that market. So, when someone gives you a loan like that from a World Bank IDA development agency with an interest rate of 1.25 to 25 years, then consider there to be about 40% of presents throughout that period. It's so-called. concession credit. Therefore, in this situation, it would be really unreasonable not to support such a loan, a team before it is an emergency that is respectable for BiH, because BiH can no longer use these loans since it has crossed the GDP level, i.e. gross domestic product over, I think, $1,700. So we can't use it, but this is some extraordinary situation and with that, I think we actually have one 17 extremely favourable loan. And if we're borrowing new generations we're borrowing them under exceptional, extremely favourable conditions. When it comes to loans for electricity, these are loans that we don't owe to the state, it will restore electricity. We're almost one here, let's say, the bearer of that loan. Therefore, it does not need to be mixed together. So, if there's one, if we're getting bitter lately because we're in debt to various loans in this case, that bitterness shouldn't be burdening us. Of course, I don't think it's cute, because whoever's in charge is probably, unless it's a developmental borrowing, it's probably the necessity of that, or the need to do it, but I think in this case we have a chance to have a clear conscience, so let's raise our hands to support these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22929	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22930	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I think today's agenda points should be supported. And that's not the problem with BiH, because here, Mr. Anto, my colleague made it easier for me to discuss what this session is about today, what means. But what's the problem with BiH is that we still don't have in Parliament what the damage was, and here, almost 3 months will, almost 100 days, we don't know exactly what the damage is. It's written in the media up to 4 billion maximum that it's a shame. So, that damage is not 50% of the damage that the Council of Ministers, not only this, but also the previous council of ministers, has done to its poor foreign trade policy because the deficit makes the deficit bigger every year than this damage. So the example works in 2011 we had a deficit of -7.3 billion, in 2012. - 7.39, 2013. -6.7, and unfortunately in 2014 probably this elemental accident will still be... So, the Council of Ministers has done its foreign trade policy only in the past 3 years, 21.5 billion KM has caused damage to BiH citizens, because we have imported more than exported. Now, that's where BiH's key lies, so we haven't adopted the coordination mechanism in politics and we want to join the EU. That's where we lose 30 million euros, so almost half of this debt today just because we haven't formed the Payment System Agency. So we didn't create a strategy of energy at the state level, we didn't create a health strategy at the state level. There lies the problem of BiH and there is damage to the real BiH, and what was the elemental disaster is even less damage than the one that is being applied by a policy that is current and in BiH's power. So, I think we should support this today and give ourselves a chance to solve these problems to establish a system of coordination, to make strategies and to improve an economic recovery of BiH, because I hope maybe this will also bring us warning and elections should affect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22931	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodiš, replica. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22932	Thank you. I'd just like to, as well as the doctor, colleague Domazet wanted Mr. Jovičić to replicate a little bit, and I'm going to tell Dr. Domazet that how simple it is, he literally said, that this loan would be almost 40% grand or so free. I can just tell you, here's the moment with 2% interest rate after 5 years our first month... will be 1 million and 300,000 euros, interest, plus annuity 3 million and 250,000 euros. When we calculate all of this together, about 10 million marks come in, we have to each month, and when we calculate to 30 or 20 years, considering the grace period, about 30% we're going to pay for what we're taking right now. So what Dr. Domazet said, I don't think it's fair, let's calculate, and we'll get this information. And that's how it is. So this loan is really a loan and it's a small difference compared to how much we need it is another thing, but if we use it properly, it can be an effect. However, we must be careful because our experiences so far have taught us a little differently, etc. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22933	Thank you. I can't defend my colleague, Domazet, but it may not be true, but we can't say it's not fair. So, distinguished representative Mirza Kušljugić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22934	The Honorable Chairman. I don't feel called even though the Vice President of the Commission called me, he's not in the O.R. right now, to give some explanations. Well, here's a brief explanation. For one thing, the Commission has been sitting today and unanimously adopted to give positive consent. I'm not interpreting anyone's views, I'm just passing on the information I got. The first explanation relating to the European Investment Bank's funds, therefore, is developmental, investment lending that is common in all countries that can receive European Investment Bank funds. Debts go towards power distributions, electricity distributions are within the electricity industry but have nothing to do with electrotransmitters. elektroprenos is a special company, and the whole story about whether Elektroprenos could transfer the money so we don't owe ourselves is a thing that doesn't hold water. Today we had a session of the Commission and we were asking questions about this credit development agency and the information we received is that, on the basis of the consent of the World Bank, part of these funds has already been placed, which means it will be covered. So much for the urgency of the funds and whether something has already been used by it. Is it a favourable loan or not? Well, fellow Jagodić, maybe economists should count these interest rates, but here we engineers know something, there's something in the economy called the time value of money, so 10 million in 5 years isn't 10 million today, and that's Professor. Domazet wanted to say that when in 25 years you come to pay a million, that if you respect inflation that's not a million, that's one 60% of that amount. Since he's gone, I just had to explain this. So, his math, his explanation was exactly the way it was. And these are the loans that we won after the war and we can't anymore, and so we're told to the Commission this is the last loan we can get under the IDA conditions, which means that I think it's justified that we go into a quick recovery. And that's why we met today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22935	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22936	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers. Here, very briefly, even on a few occasions and my name was mentioned, I didn't... intend... to replicate because I don't think I had any needs, but I think the credit, and under the conditions under which we got it, is very good and it's acceptable, and that we need to react very quickly. And it's a good thing that the College has scheduled a session like this so that we can try not to stop the process and thus ensure that the funds come as soon as possible. When someone gets such quality funds, then in a way they should be a little bit grateful to people who have managed to fight, and not here now to talk, because what Mr. Kušljugić said, there will be no million marks or million euros will be the same now and in 10 years. Inflation makes its own, so you can say that it's quite favourable. Perhaps... there is one piece of information missing to be said with which there is one part of the funds which are a grant, and this time we are not considering it, but it is also one of the signs that the EU is and that other countries have given part of these funds. As far as we're concerned, this loan is acceptable for us from the SNSD, and I think we need to verify this agreement today. What was the discussion about whether or not he should have, our conclusion that was ahead of the SNSD that I suggested for 20 million, I don't think he would be eliminated by this. I believe it is the conclusion, it is now the conclusion of the BiH Parliament, and that conclusion should go into its realisation. And in any case, I expect that, in some future period, I still hope in our mandate, that this conclusion, that the Parliamentary Assembly will meet with that conclusion, to come up with concrete proposals to see exactly what it is of those funds that will not be spent... will be directed here. This is one of the most difficult things to do and that is why we went so quickly to take those 7 million, to go with this loan, but we must not give up on the conclusion that Parliament has made here – that there is still additional funding. Perhaps the Council of Ministers will find solutions that will be greater than those adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly and should give them encouragement and support in this direction. Because objectively in this situation, we need to find quality solutions, to go with as little borrowing as possible, to go to our own, to cut our own costs wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22937	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. Representative of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Vice-President, Foreign Minister Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22938	First, I would like to thank all MPs, MPs who today have had such short time ahead of them, and other obligations have been planned and have come to the meeting of this distinguished House today. I thought that, with respect to you, who, especially those who came and made other commitments, would be disturbed, and because of the importance of the subject, I felt that it was necessary for you here from the Council of Ministers to have the opportunity to answer questions that could possibly be asked. I must admit that I expected questions concerning the very ratification of the agreement, but here were several other issues that were ultimately directly related to ratification, so allow me, I am sorry that the Council of Ministers does not have one, but since I have been involved from the very beginning in preparation for what is the subject of this ratification and the Donor Conference itself, let me say a few words and give answers and comments to the questions that you have asked yourself. First, as far as credit responsibility itself is concerned, the facts are as follows. For a long time, it has been said in public, and the esteemed colleague Domazet talked about the very nature of these loans, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the evaluation that was made together under the UN Methodology Methodology, which was applied in similar cases around the world, led together by UN experts headed by the Nobel Prize, the man who received the Nobel Prize for such assessments, with European Commission presidents, representatives of the World Bank and more than 100 people from BiH institutions, entities, local communities, so all levels of government in BiH, came up with material that went to the Donor Conference that speaks of the need for recovery and recovery of BiH, and floods that were in May this year. The fact is that both Serbia and BiH received a large amount of credit arrangements. The fact is also that Serbia and BiH's credit debt is not the same. The fact is that Serbia has received more funding as a credit arrangement than BiH, among other things, because most of the damage in Serbia refers to what was once referred to as social property today, and we have greater damages in private ownership and then the application of different ones, so to speak, donor funds and even the funds that are in charge, which are derived from the loan, is different. BiH belongs to the most innocent countries on the planet by all parameters. BiH's responsibility, I think you also had information in front of Parliament on time, is about 1/3 of BiH's social product, 1/3 of BiH's social product. Croatia's debt is close to 110% of BiH's social product or an absolute amount almost 12 times more than BiH's debt. Our neighbouring Serbia's debt to us, which is similar to that of the social product per capita, but with a much higher population of 4 and 5 times that of BiH, respectively. And that is why we can talk today about that there is a capacity to borrow BiH, but not just any capacity but the capacity exclusively for the credits that are of a developmental character, which, as Professor Domazet said, are called a gift credit in the financial world. The fact is, Mr. Jagodić is absolutely right, that these interest rates are like that, but these are credits that go around the world, take any commercial credit and calculate interest on this, so you'll see that it's not going to pay back a million, but it's going to be 12 million for that same loan at the commercial bank with the collaterals that we don't have to give right now. So the difference is huge. I'm sorry that, and here I am, today by the end of the day, I'm going to send you through the office and the translations and all the materials that we have, I didn't really know that you didn't have any materials that talk about the damage assessment, you're going to be given a summary, just to get better prepared, because the mass of questions that are being asked here 21 are there, a summary that speaks of damage assessments in BiH. The damage in BiH according to the Methodology report, which was jointly made by our institutions and international institutions, is 2,491,000,000 KM and the losses are 1,493,000,000, which means that total damage and losses are 3,984.700,000 KM. This is about 16 per cent of BiH's social product. The damage and losses in Serbia amount to about 5-6 per cent of Serbia's social product, but because of the size of the economy, they are what they are. Translated to another language, the amount of damage and loss in these floods is greater than the budget adopted in this House in this term for all BiH institutions. And that is why the fiscal deficit, which has been down from 5.1% to 2% over the previous 4 years, will again go to some 4% of the fiscal deficit, which still makes us a country with a fiscal deficit less than the good part of the EU countries. But without sex, we were at a standard of one percent better than what is required for EU members. On the other hand, the growth of the social product in this year was supposed to be 2.2 percent, and because of the floods will be negative, I don't like to say growth, some say negative growth, when something negative is difficult to grow, so negative recession or whatever, so a negative rate of 0.7%. In such a situation today where you don't have the kind of credit we're getting on the credit market, the kind of credit we've already received, and that the loans we're talking about, which are loans with 10 years of grace over a 20-year payment and a 1% interest, these are loans that we're not qualified for. These are loans given to countries that are practically at a several times lower level of economic development, which is precisely why we were given these rules were broken because of the floods that were under way. So much for the loan. As far as the Donor Conference itself is concerned, we, in fact, went to the Donor's Conference with this joint report, and BiH was wanted for urgent needs of 1,275,000 KM, so much needed during this urgent period of reconstruction and reconstruction, for a medium term period of 1,412,000,000 and for a long-term 767,000,000. When you add that up, you see that BiH's needs were from this report 3,454,000, so something less than damage and losses because many of the things that would be built would be better than higher-quality materials with cheaper investments and not to talk any further about it. So we set out at the Donor Conference with a target of 640,000,000 euros. Serbia set off with a target figure slightly larger than us because the damages were higher, with a figure of 830,000,000 euros, because the needs in absolute amounts were higher. At the Donor Conference, that's what I'm trying to say here, many expected this conference to be a disaster. Some of them wanted to. In the morning when the Donor Conference began from the target 1,275,000 thousand we were told that we would be happy if we received 500 or 600,000 marks for urgent needs. The fact is that the conference ended with BiH receiving 650,000 euros or, respectively, an excuse of 830,00,000 euros, so 1,660,000,000 KM, which is about 25 per cent more than we need. Now there's the next problem, and I thank you for meeting me today. We now have a problem of urgency, urgency and today it is truly fascinating to ratify an agreement that has been practically signed with someone who was signed a year ago, which means that we have shown responsibility that we can do something urgently in the Council of Ministers, both in the Presidency and in this Parliament. I also want to say that it is very important that this urgency applies and that is why, as the Council of Ministers yesterday, we transferred the amount of about 10 million KM entities or Brcko District, which should primarily go for what we told foreign donors is urgent at this point, which is houses, employment and employment, including agriculture. The damages, the agricultural needs amount to about 89,000,000 marks, for the BiH-level housing sector 22,836,000,000, and for employment and economy somewhere around a billion or to be more precise, 1,050,000. What is important is to say, and that is that our delegation and the people who participated in this, that we were saved by solidarity and unity within BiH when this was done. And the fact, too, that a joint conference was held with Serbia was assessed, that the fact that we and Serbia went together to the Donor Conference gray found that we had two separate conferences, that at two separate conferences we wouldn't get nearly as close as we got because we were single, because we did it together and because we were united in that request and there was no competition between BiH and Serbia. I also want to be responsible for this, in front of Parliament, to say, no matter what, to say, perhaps at some point that it looked that way, but there was an extremely high degree of unity between the people in BiH who both worked entityal and cantonal and Brcko District and the Council of Ministers and the local communities when it came to the evaluations and we went to the Donor Conference with a request for damages, the reconstruction of BiH, which clearly details every local community. Therefore, it is clear that the implementation of damage in Republika Srpska will go through the competent institutions of the RS, i.e. local communities, entity authorities, in the Federation through cantons, through municipalities, through the Federation and the like. What I particularly want to bring out here once again, and I think it is extremely important that we be as effective as possible now, there is much at the level now, at local authorities, and we as the Council of Ministers can do some kind of monitoring of what is going to happen, precisely for those reasons, we adopted a decision yesterday at the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is that in the group or the monitoring mechanism to involve NGOs, as a matter of principle known in so-called. an open partnership with governments from highly developed countries, in order to know exactly how all and one mark goes and to include representatives of the NGO sector. So, I'm sorry that you didn't get this, I just want to draw your attention that we at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs put materials on our website that speak directly about damages, then all of them and the food stamps and exact amounts by certain segments, so from agriculture, education, energy sector, flood protection, health, housing, economy and employment, public services, security and transport, water supply and gendarmes, as per the items that the donor has provided how much funds. And there is no such thing as donations that go to one account of any, but some of the funds go to the accounts of the state, are passed on in accordance with our constitutional structure to the lower levels and implementation is done where anyone is responsible, and foreign donors do a good part of the implementation themselves. I'll give you an example of the Japanese ambassador, who you mentioned here, said the other day that he lacked projects and that he was going to implement it directly and that he was in a hurry. It makes sense that the Japanac are in a hurry. I had a very pleasant conversation with the ambassador, and I told him, I gave him a few examples, and I set an example that he could rush to Doboj to know exactly what to do, that he could hurry to Bijeljin to know exactly what can be done, I told him that they were the country that makes buildings on bowling alleys and they know very well what the rinks are and when the country is moving, that in Tuzla, where 250 houses went to the rinks, they disappeared along with the sheets, that there was one, is there a village in Tuzla where only 500 houses are in danger if the glider is set off with another 3.5 thousand potential dangers only in the Tuzlan area. I asked him to go as soon as possible to Chief Tuzla, because they have a great prevention project there, to help make that slide, as they say, not activated with the first major rainstorm where 500 houses are threatened. After repairing the school in the Iron Field, that school is ruined, here you can go now, you have experience, go straight to the Iron Field and fix the school, if you need speed I can provide you with a police escort to get there faster if that's the problem. But in any case, we can help 23 people at speed. But I hope the man was in Tuzla, I hope he was in Bijeljina, I hope he was in Doboj and I hope he was in the Iron Field. In any case, the projects are waiting, the Commissioners at the scene have concrete projects to wait for. In Topčića Polje the other day we were, 91 houses can be renovated by 670,000 marks. The chief has already provided 200,000, and we are already looking at how to provide from these funds available here for the next 400,000 marks to repair 91 houses in Topčića Polje. In the end, someone will have to do it in the local community, but today we are doing what is up to us, opening up the possibility that these 120m euros are about as much as we have available to them. What I also want to tell you is that in January of next year there will be... conferences where we will be seen what we did, how we did, and where we will be seen whether we will be given the funds still and therefore the responsibility of all of us, the urgency in all of this, transparency and don't get me wrong, and I know that the news when something isn't done, I know that the news is when a house isn't fixed, but it wouldn't be bad to see both when something is done and when something is fixed. Because if anything about that January next year, to see people that we're not just experts to explain what we didn't do and what everyone who missed to do, that we're also experts to do things. I think what people do on the ground is make us behave a little differently. And finally thanks to you for this time that I had at my disposal, I repeat once again, I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers wasn't there, I'm sure he would have answered, but I tried here carefully to listen to you give at least some answers to questions that I didn't know were on the agenda. But I am fully agreed that it would be good to have an earlier thematic session of this House where we should go out with one more complete information about how urgent we have done, how responsible we have done something, how transparently we have done something, how effective we have done something, and in the end whether we have learned something from this, and that is that I repeat, we would not get anywhere near this fund or donor or credit card that we have not shown ourselves as people who can be united both in BiH and in, with our neighbours in Serbia. And I thank you for seeing that there are a lot of people here who are going to vote for ratification, and I think it's very important that the entity authorities get to these funds as quickly as possible so that they can go into rehab exclusively in accordance with what has been found to be damages, such as losses and clearly defined needs and clearly defined priorities, which are primarily houses, jobs and jobs that are related to agriculture. Not forgetting the fact that in September, children must go to school, who have left, that health institutions should be there and that the transport sector and that I don't get what they don't, but these are priorities and the sessions today depend on how much of your priorities will have a chance to realize. Now, I thank you and apologize for perhaps answering things that are not directly related to the agenda, but I felt that because the Council of Ministers is directly, and I also called for some of the things that are in the border area that, here, this point of the agenda, I tried to give answers to these questions with one more thank you for coming here today and for showing responsibility that everyone must have when it comes to these things. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-31-0.u22939	I would like to thank the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers who delivered the position, so the Council of Ministers, and I hope that the MPs have received answers to their questions and possibly some of the dilemmas they have had. 24 As for the thematic session, as soon as the Council of Ministers delivers material, the College will immediately convene this session before and after the Great Lady. Since we've exhausted, so all the points of the agenda, since some of the MPs who were here in the hall are not here right now, I'm giving a five-minute break before the hearing, means exactly 12:00(?). Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] I ask my colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs to take their seats and that we may be able to approach the statement on the agenda points. At the request of the SDA Representatives' Club, another minute of breaks. [[PAUZA]]
