ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20462	My fellow Members and fellow Members have managed to gather 22 MPs as much as necessary to start working. I welcome you all, welcome all guests and invited guests. The absence from the session was justified by MPs Milica Marković, Dušanka Majkić, Borislav Bojić. Asim Sarajlić and Anto Domazet announced a delay. According to the office's information, there are currently 23 MPs present, and we have a surplus. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I remind you that we've reached the seventh point of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property – Proposer: Ambassador Mirsad Đugum (first reading) The draft law was submitted in the procedure on 27.12.2013 with an urgent request for consideration. At the 61st session of the House, held on 30.12.2013, this request was not adopted, followed by an unsatisfactory entity majority following an agreement on the shortened procedure. The college didn't achieve consent... At the 62nd session, held on 23.01.2014, the draft law was decided to be considered by regular procedure. On 26.02.2014, the applicant submitted a corrected version of the draft law correcting the technical error that was subsequently observed. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 27.02.2014. I'm opening a debate. As a promoter, I'd like to leave the championship to my distinguished colleague, Mirsad Đugum, if that's all right with you. Here you go, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20464	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, guests. Well, I think it's very clear, I explained this part in the earlier process when this law is proposed, which is the importance of this law. It is clear that BiH has been standing in its process towards the Euro-Atlantic path for a long time, i.e. from a leader who has been heading towards Euro-Atlantic integration in the region, that a complete stalemate has taken place. The problem of resolving this 63-seat entry, which was eventually and was on its way, was then suspended from the 63-seat entry process, which I think and I think that 2 would all be aware of the situation in which BiH citizens, in which BiH, are in, should accept for one clear reason why absolutely this proposal of the law comes to a second position, i.e. the position of a safer, better and clearer picture of BiH, and the team, which also supported the Presidency unanimously, the principle of access to the euro, i.e. the NATO Pact. This process itself was a deal between the seven-man leaders. Unfortunately, because of what we have more macadams in BiH than a clear path, it leads to one problem that we, as parliamentarians, will at some time be ashamed of what we have not allowed the citizens of BiH and have made its better, clearer path towards developing the economy, one other relationship between BiH citizens in a more secure environment to live, a clearer vision, and foreign investors, and even domestic capital a clearer guide to their investment, development of the economy, economy and better living conditions with a simple reduction in the number of unemployed. It is clear that almost every country through accession to European integration, and especially through NATO accession, has increased investment levels over the next few years by 20% to 30%. It is needed as a security, as a political and economic development for BiH. It is clear that this proposal to go in the first reading, if anyone has any objections to this text, then it is open that in the next 10 days in the amendment phase it will act on this proposal of the law and that it will be adopted as it will suit all. It is my personal opinion, as well as the opinion of the SBB Club, that waiting and conditioning, solving one problem with another problem is the one that has been present in this Parliament for a long time and is not the reason, we should not be surprised that this Parliamentary Assembly is the most inefficient in the present period. If the NGO has such information, if it places it on the outside, we should not be angry, we should be aware that we are making each other a brake inside Parliament, but that we are all building a brake for the citizens and the state of BiH together. And that's why I think there's room here for anyone who wants to fix anything in the amendment phase, to open this part and to open at least one part of their obligations, if we can't go towards the European path then we can go to the MAP to adopt this Parliamentary Assembly and open up the possibility of another process, another approach and another outcome or the times of the citizens of BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20465	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20466	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I, regardless of what the outcome of the vote will be under this Law, have the need to say a few sentences, not the weight of this Law, but its importance when it comes to NATO's path to BiH, or when it comes to BiH's membership in NATO. I think this is a small, small condition BiH should meet, which has become a major problem for BiH, and I think it is the result of an attempt to politicise BiH's NATO membership issue. BiH will become a NATO member, there is no dilemma in that. And I want to tell here to all those who think differently in BiH and out of BiH, that it is simply a fact and it will be so. The sooner BiH becomes a member of the NATO alliance, the sooner it will benefit all of us in BiH and BiH. 3 The law that is offered is very simple solutions. Therefore, the total military and state assets are required to register 60 and some of the locations in the BiH state, promising immovable military assets. I think that this is a way out for all of us in BiH and I think that the issue of other military assets, state property, should be resolved in accordance with the principles promoted by the Constitutional Court's ruling on the subject, and the solutions offered in this Law are not contrary to the basic or fundamental principles of that judgment. And that's why I'm calling on the House of Representatives to support this bill, to finally derail our NATO path. I say this is a small problem, therefore, a question that is not so significant, a very simple, decisive issue that produces major problems in BiH. If he has any good will, I think this is decisive and in no way affects or prejudges what the Constitutional Court's ruling on state property is saying, and what will be dealt with in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20467	Thank you. The following came from distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20468	Thank you. So, indeed, in his opening statement, the Proposer cited a number of arguments that contribute to the need to adopt this Law and pointed to the benefits that we can benefit from this, etc. However, in addition to all the good and intention and compromise this law offers, one of which is not acceptable for us from the BiH Party, and it is about the enrollment. Therefore, this Law cannot be the basis for the recording of property. The basis for the recording of assets is something else, so the International Agreement on Succession, the Constitutional Court's judgment, etc. So this model makes a precedent and opens up space to work with other assets like this. So, the conclusion of this 2011 House is that it calls on the Ombudsman to register property on the state of BiH on the basis of the documents that I am talking about and that this Parliament is granting. So, not to be the basis for this law, but to give a decision or this law to the Ministry of Defense in this case. But despite the compromise, it is obvious that, at least on announcements etc., the Law will not receive support from MPs whose political options publicly express the reserve, when it comes to BiH's path to NATO and tie it absolutely to the behaviour of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that's the right for people to think so, but at the same time they should think about what with those millions of people who want that integration. So we're going to have to open that kind of story, so how much is it right for a number of policy options to say – we don't care much, etc. and the obligation to hear what others think about it. But here, we'll probably talk more about it when the time comes. I will conclude by warning that such a solution makes a precedent for other assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20469	Thank you. The next word came from the first deputy chairman, distinguished counterpart Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20470	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law proposed by one representative, or one club, and probably not the best way to get to the adoption of this Law. But I would now not deal with this issue here in my debate, but rather deal with the essence of this proposal and what this proposal ultimately means for BiH. You see, given that a political agreement was reached in BiH two years ago, six political parties, I think it was in March 2012 in Banja Luka at a meeting where I personally attended, or participated in the issue of immovable military property, but of course it was agreed then and how will state property be resolved, but in one other time (?). I believe that in addition to the shortcomings that this proposal certainly contains, because it does not solve the issue of military property entirely, especially those that are inoperable, that the content of this Law corresponds to that political agreement from 2 years ago in Banja Luka. Furthermore, the adoption and resolution of the state property issue is one of the conditions for the activation of the MAP towards NATO, so all this says that we must approach this issue, given some, I say, more or far-reaching interests of BiH. Because it is undeniable that the authorities of BiH have made, in fact unanimously, the main strategic decisions, i.e. the objectives of BiH towards foreign policy integration, which are Euro-Atlantic integration and the Presidency, and in the end it is also embedded in the BiH Defence Act that was adopted in this Parliament. On the other hand, since it is still the law in the first reading, which can also be amended, as the proposer himself said in his opening statement, I believe that this law should nevertheless be put forward in the parliamentary procedure, but in any case looking for a comprehensive solution to state property. Because you will remember here, and even those who have and who will probably still have reservations under this law today, that the solution of state property is actually the first of the conditions for the transformation of the Office of the High Representative in BiH into the Office of the EU Special Representative in BiH, and of course, as I said earlier, as one of the conditions for the activation of the MAP. Which means that we must certainly make quick access to a complete solution to the issue or problem of state property. Now I would call on another agreement by political party leaders here, I think there were seven political parties at the time, and where I also participated, where we reached a conclusion and signed it that, within certain deadlines, a comprehensive issue of state property involving military property was resolved, and the Council of Ministers was given the task. The Council of Ministers appointed a group to prepare the relevant Law on State Property, which includes military property. And that group, to remind you, consists of Bariša Čolak, Minister of First, Sredoje Nović, Minister of Civil Affairs and Damir Hadžić, Minister of Transport and Communications, who are also proposed by their parties, but here if you will also from representatives of the constituent peoples who participate in the work of the Council of Ministers. You see, according to my information, the truth of the unofficial, working group formed and entrusted by the Council of Ministers has drawn up a draft law on state property, I have it here in my hand. And this law, i.e. the draft law provides for a solution to state property, including military property, in a very big way. This draft received a positive opinion from the Council of Ministers' Legislative Office and is still in the Council of Ministers' procedure, according to my information. But I don't understand, or I may even have a certain opinion on that, which is why he hasn't been formally placed on the Council of Ministers' agenda to be delivered to us here. 5 That is why I believe, to be fully open, that the interest of BiH and the responsibility of this Parliament is that we should take a comprehensive approach to resolving this issue. But I think that BiH, which has the ambition to become a member of Euro-Atlantic integration, or we MPs, who represent the citizens and the peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly here, should not, as I say, be against this time in this first procedure, knowing that from the activation of the MAP and to the membership of the state in the EU is a very long path that also contains a referendum of citizens, or a decision in Parliament, in the way that the state determines. Because, let me tell you, I am expressing my conviction, my opinion that in some way I have said in another form and recently at a seminar here at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I truly believe that the interest of all citizens, including all the peoples and states of BiH, is membership in Euro-Atlantic integration. And I think that belief exists in everyone and even those who have reserves to do so, I also consider those reserves legitimate. And I also believe that countries that are not or have no aspirations at all to be members of NATO should not have any harm in making BiH a member of these integrations. And finally, I will finish, I believe that in this first reading we should let this law go into further procedure, with the possibility of reacting to it in an amendment with, so to speak, my intimate belief that he will probably not be adopted. But that is why I propose one conclusion, regardless of the fate of this law in the parliamentary procedure, and regardless of how it will end today's statement on it here in Parliament, that we as Parliament draw a conclusion – the Parliamentary House of BiH is in charge of the Council of Ministers to deliver, as soon as possible, a draft law on state property that includes military property as an integral part of state property. So, this conclusion I will suggest, and I would ask that we plead to it as Home, regardless, therefore to the fate of this Law, and today about its statement and its further procedure, for which we can probably assume what it will be like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20471	Thank you. Next discussion, distinguished colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20472	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. We have spoken on this subject on several occasions, which will greatly shorten today's discussion, which is good. Before I say anything about this Law, let me just refer to the part of the presentation of the distinguished colleague Ljubić about this Law that he mentioned and which is the subject of the Council of Ministers. This Law, in my re-information, is still at an agreement, both between domestic political actors and representatives of the international community, but it is absolutely no obstacle to the fact that in the Council of Ministers or anywhere else talking about any law that any authorised proposing offers its vision and solutions to this issue. When we talk about the Law that is before us today and what is the subject of the discussion, I need to say that the SDP Club was, like, a proposer, besides the others, the like, but a little more comprehensive solution, which unfortunately has not been adopted. I do not want to prejudge what will be the result of today's vote, but I would like to say that as far as SDP is concerned, any solutions that will bring us closer to NATO will be supported by the SDP Club. 6 Just a few specific sentences about the Law, since it is the first reading. The law bears the title of the Law on the availability of immovable military property, and it has indeed defined both the prospective and non-perspective military property. Perspective is less defined. When it comes to inspective military property, it is partly defined, or defined only what happens to the locations needed to function BiH institutions that use or use these institutions. Since this is the first reading, it is our suggestion that the Proposer may consider supplementing Article 7. The law, so that it clearly defines what is going on with its unspectived military property, so not only one that will be for the purposes of BiH institutions, or that it will be said that it will be treated in a special law or in any other way, simply that we understand it. Or, even some suggestions were made to make only the Law on the availability of prospective military assets. So my predecessors said, our goal should be, that is, what is the priority, which is to address the issues of this 63-seat perspective military property adopted by the Presidency by consensus. And in that sense, this Law offers this solution and represents, therefore, the fulfillment of the conditions ahead of us. Is this law perfect? It's not. However, it is in the first reading, and the proposer himself invited everyone to participate in his correction, supplementation, suggestions, and here we have invited the fartor himself to explain a part of this Law. Does he answer all the questions? He won't. But does it solve these 63 locations? Yeah, he's dealing with them. And we as the SDP Club supported this Act when it was proposed to go by emergency procedure, we also supported the Constitutional Commission and we will support today. And we believe that, if there is a good political will to address the 63 locations that are actually a real condition for a step closer to NATO, it is possible to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20473	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20474	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be as short as possible, it allows me the fact that before me some of the things I thought to say were said by Mr Ljubić and Mr Magazinović. So, in short, I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, can express regret that it failed to fully implement that political agreement mentioned by my colleague Ljubić, because only by full implementation of this political agreement would it be possible for this or some more comprehensive legislative solution not only to come to the Parliamentary Assembly, but to come out of it and come out as a legal solution. What's here is. I am convinced that the Law on State Property, which my information once again says has been agreed, and then some political factors have retrieved from this agreed proposal, that there will still be some kind of modus that will allow this Law on State Property, part of which is also military property, to pass through the Council of Ministers and to appear in the Parliamentary Assembly. As far as this legislative proposal is concerned, we see it as an attempt to overcome this problem that exists with our political agreements and see it absolutely as a proposal that does not deviate from the important issues of being a political agreement itself. It is not entirely complete, however, since the law is in regular procedure, it is possible to act on it in another 7 reading of amendments in a manner or to change the name of the law, in order for the name to be adequate content of the law or to remain this current name of the law, which is a more realistic solution, and then to define what with that part of military property that is not defined by the existing articles of this Act. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20475	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20476	I thank the chairman. I welcome all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers and all the guests in the O.R. Well, I don't know if there's any need for SNSD to repeat its views when it comes to this law, we've done it on several occasions. Here, we can remind perhaps of the fact that a little change has been made, here are the circumstances from the time this Law first entered the procedure, of course not to slow down his, the right to propose or legislator for his proposal, but it is interesting, I remember that he was quickly proposed for a single flight, and after that we came into a situation that today this Law proposes an opposition political party. And I don't believe that on such important issues as this, and about which they are tied, that in one country the opposition led the round, it was usually handled by governments and ruling coalitions or I don't know who, but this is the country of absurdity, so here we have the opposition that for its own reasons force that question. But here, I only said one remark that happened by accident, I don't think it has anything to do with this question itself, but it's interesting at all. Some have noted this, and some have deliberately left out that SNSD had a clear view of this when we made a deal between political leaders, and they don't talk about why the rest of the agreement wasn't realised and why it was just taken out of the context of this part, why they were either against the rest of the agreement or why they didn't do anything to push that part of the agreement and get it, so here I can welcome this conclusion of the distinguished colleague Ljubić, he may have been able to replace all the discussions at this session today. Unlike other countries, as you wish some unfortunately and some fortunately, BiH is not a priority issue, who knows where it is, it has many other problems to solve before this issue. Unfortunately, we are following with concern that one country has solved this issue by defining one side or another in one hard way to get what it has received, which we would not want to, of course, happen here. But you're also witnesses, and it's very interesting now that the behavior and those who have committed themselves to one and the other apartment as they have responded to those they have committed, so one of them is silent and waiting for something, while the other, they don't waste their time and do their job. Interesting experiences are probably at a time when we all faced the advantages and those who were making arguments at the time, the time did so and changed things, it would be interesting to see how Croatia went through in this approach and how it stands with, on the business plan and to what extent it contributed in some way or did not and how things really, really one serious approach to see if it was all the way this year represented us or that there is some other side of the medal that should be seen and really seriously considered. And we said we wanted to consider this but in the approach that was created then at the leaders' meeting and of course we still want to talk about it that way. And what I also want to say, unfortunately today is not the best time to discuss this issue, unfortunately, is the time NATO bombed our countrymen and 8 of these are painful memories and we are always not prepared to talk about this issue in one way these days, and that is familiar to all of you. And I think that we should respect that because it has proved that it is much more important to talk patiently in BiH and come to a solution than to propose unilaterally. One of the speakers said today – we will certainly be members of NATO, I should now answer and probably the opposite – that we will never be members of NATO. I won't answer that. As it is not true what he said because in BiH you have one dozen advocates who says that we will surely be members of various associations, so some think that we will be members of NATO, one thinks that we will be members of some Russian association, one thinks that we will be members of some Ottoman association or I don't know which one. So, it's not good to prejudge anything here, but in one serious and responsible way to approach this issue, and that's, that's why, not getting into the essence because we said, so, on the trail here and this conclusion that we want in the package that's agreed to solve this issue. And of course, with us, it causes a certain suspicion why someone is taking this thing out of context when everything else is important. And we don't mention it, and in some ways we avoid saying that this issue is important for the sake of military property, and we spend all day saying that this is important for the sake of NATO. Well, first of all, I guess it's important to settle for a military asset that's a drawback. Well, if that's the consequence, and everything else we need to talk about. And these are our reasons that we have repeated before along with, here's this additional remark of the opposition action of the promoter, it's the only newspaper compared to our earlier arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20477	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20478	P, the replica is about this finding by counterpart Kalabić that all discussions at today's session can be replaced practically with the proposed conclusion by Mr. Božo Ljubić. Of course, here's a chance for me to take advantage of it, I was in a position to see this proposal that the task force is working on, and it's in the Council of Ministers, etc., and I have my own opinion on it, but I am definitely very disappointed with the way it's being discussed in today's session of political options that have been looking at this whole thing in a completely different way. I repeat once again what we have repeated a hundred times, so we here are making a belief, from the notorious legal fact that it is state property, that this question should not be opened because it is settled. It was resolved through the continuity of this country, it was settled through the Agreement on Succession and the Constitutional Court Decision. We're talking about redistribution again, the desert debate, and there's no end to it. Unfortunately, all those who keep quiet today practically for me have been very dishonest and use their steps for political purposes. We've been proving this for 10 years, I've been talking here ten times -- there's a conclusion on this House of Representatives which obliges BiH's Attorney General to continue the books as it has begun to register under the Agreement on Succession. The BiH state received these barracks under the Sucession Agreement and will register, and then we will pass a law on how the state manages it. Next, in that division, why don't you mention the Brcko District, why just entities and states? The point is in the following, a desert debate with entities what happened on entity territory, state couple of institutions, give Brcko and that we know that this state has no property, that's the whole concept. I'm sorry, I really had a need, and I'm not talking about state property anymore. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20479	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20480	Dear President, dear colleagues. Well, I'd like to replicate here my esteemed colleague, drag Kalabić. When we talk about the principle of this Parliament that I have been sitting in for more than three years, I would disagree with the fact that it is absolutely inappropriate for the opposition to initiate any conclusion or idea. We were witnesses to the opposition by initiating the shifts of ministers, officials, and to take the position with a heart. So, I don't think what my esteemed colleague said is standing. Our initiative is solely based on something that exists and that a decision has been made at the highest level of the state. Whether it's going to go NATO or... in my opinion it's not that important now and I wouldn't even point it out. This is where the actual state needs to be realized, which we don't want because of some, I'd say, polytic games, whether that's what we're going to do, whether we're going to get NATO or we're not going to get NATO with it. My opinion when it comes to NATO is very clear, we are no factor in blackmailing NATO, we are no factor. Big players solve global politics, we're both small players and being what the big players say. Unfortunately, that goes for the neighbors, too. Why are we seeking the EU? Well, to protect our borders, to protect our integrity, and most importantly, what many MPs have been saying here, we're going to cut our expenditures for the military, because we're going to have one roof institution that's going to help us not spend a lot of money on the military,...we're spending on life and on the real sector. And in that sense, I believe that this opposition initiative, in this case Mr. Mirso Đugum, is on the back of what we said four, five or six months ago, on the backdrop of the implementation of the decisions that have already been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20481	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20482	Well, here's the answer to both of the lines, and colleagues to Kabil and colleagues to Belkić, I don't believe, I can't say exactly right now, but in any case I didn't mean it, I even pointed out that it was a legitimate proposal and not that it was inappropriate, but I said it was strange that those serious observers who were watching, it was weird that the opposition was pushing some important thing. Not because she doesn't have a right to it, absolutely, it's appropriate and logical about it, but that's weird, it is. For the opposition is equal to the minority, and he who observes the matter says, so the minority cannot make a decision, and then it turns out that the minority of the people is a solution and the like. In this context, I was saying, not in the context of any suggestion of things that were in theirs, fulfilled all these circumstances that were necessary of course, both business and all. In any case, it's just that it's weird and it's never anywhere, with the full respect of the opposition, the opposition never solved the important thing. Because the moment the opposition has the capacity to solve an important thing she is then a government, she is no longer an opposition and that is quite logical, then the government should go into opposition. 10 As for the replica of his colleague Belkić, so he kind of replicated himself, he said that for 10 years he proved something, which means it's unproven, means there's no evidence, that it's impossible to prove it, I think he's in the business of Sisif. And as soon as this is on the agenda today, it's also a sign that it's not settled, because if it was settled, it wouldn't be on the agenda of the session. There is no conclusion spoke of by Mr Belkić, as no Serbian MP voted in favour of the conclusion. And it is not right to base such a discussion on it, because this is an important issue that is being resolved, and I think that it will be resolved of course, but not in the way that Mr Belkić proposes, but in the way that some principles are already put in place as to how this will be resolved. And we said, because here you see that we are not talking about the essence of this Law, we have given consent to participate in this, but we are just asking a question – what about this part, and exactly what is contained in the conclusion proposed by fellow Ljubić. And when it comes to the agenda set we have a solution, there probably isn't much left to settle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20483	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20484	I thank you again. Well, it is known that sometimes we go from hollow to empty and absolutely nothing this Parliament will solve. That's what I said and in my opening statement, we're dealing with absolutely trivial things that don't matter, we don't explain, we don't reason in a way that we can do something, be for something or against something, but it's important to go on a side track and shoot with macadam again. The Alliance for a Better Future was part of the position in 2013 when it proposed the same bill, i.e. still in the extended work, and then as a position, members in the position, we did not get support... It is absurd to argue now that any opposition or position if we know in this process parliamentary procedure each has the right to propose, and to argue that the opposition cannot get most of it is absolutely deplaced when,... at the moment we were in position we did not get most, and it was precisely on the trail of agreements reached by the leaders of six parties in which the SBB did not participate, but accepted it, accepted and delivered it last year. We have, we have a commission that was formed, in the composition that Mr Ljubić said, of three members who will deliver it as soon as possible. That short term is, here's more than a year and a few days or a year from the formation of a commission. So we're absolutely getting the bill back as soon as possible, or the proposal to, uh, get the conclusion as soon as possible. What's the shortest possible deadline? The citizens of BiH and BiH have no time to resolve issues that are absolutely, absolutely in a process that will be resolved either one way or another, but will be resolved in this form. These 63 locations today or tomorrow will be registered to the state, because that's exactly what it's used for. And then what's the problem? If we have 63 locations that are now part of the Ministry of Defence, that is, used by the Ministry of Defence, and they are the need for the Ministry of Defence, where is the problem with registering now? If we have the conclusion of this Parliamentary Assembly that a book is being conducted and if the Attorney General has begun to register and if we have a decision of the Constitutional Court from, from, after the agreement of the one who was in Banja Luka, and we have an agreement, so to speak, the clear path of BiH from the members of the Presidency, I ask only where is the question that we do not solve the problem which is not an absolute problem, but who is using it to manage. 11 Other military assets, other assets can be achieved through agreements when the time comes and there is a politically sufficient time for it to be resolved. At this point, we are aware that no agreement can be reached. I'm just trying to explain, this will be recorded at 63 locations. And please let's not make any of that absolutely no problem and go on absolutely trivial things or side colossals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20485	Thank you. Replicate response, esteemed counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20486	Very briefly, therefore, the problem was created by counterpart Kalabić at the moment when he moved from the legal field to the political field. And of course, when you enter the political field, it's also slippery and things can develop like this as they develop. We will continue to insist and rely on these three things I keep repeating, this legal continuity and what my colleague Đugum was talking about. When it comes to the conclusion that you are contesting, it is the conclusion that the House of Representatives has reached and supported the Ombudsman to continue to book, etc., and this conclusion has been reached in accordance with the Rules of Procedure under which this House of Representative works. If there is a reserve and reserve according to the decision-making method provided for in the Rules of Procedure, then it is thought of the second round of voting, there is Mr Kalabić right, this conclusion was made in the second round of voting and in line with the Rules of Procedure under which this House of Representatives works.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20487	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20488	With all due respect to counterpart Belkić, it is not that, I cannot say that I do not trust a man, but I cannot believe it, and I am asking you, Mr. Chairman, if there is any possibility that you can deliver that conclusion to us, because I still do not believe that any of the Serbian MPs voted for such a conclusion. And then I'm still making the point that I'm trying to figure out that there was, there were no circumstances for adoption, but I appreciate that, if that's what I'm saying. I ask you to resolve this dilemma, to see under what circumstances such a conclusion has been made and to see who voted for that conclusion. And please, if it is possible to prepare the listing and conclusion for us as soon as possible. And since the last replica, colleagues of Đugum are not slowing down again, of course, the legitimacy of not one moment, I just said that it was a strange circumstance for the opposition to suggest it, but it's strange that you, instead of proposing something that you thought was good, to go forward, you're engaged in opposition. Perhaps at the wrong time in the wrong place you have proposed such a law, and it has brought you some negative points. You didn't negotiate this law with coalition partners, you negotiated with foreigners, and when your dissent to the opposition started, they fled from this room. So it points out that important things have to be negotiated here, here, every time, and we've been left behind by them and us, it's nothing new. But, I'm going to end this, I want to tell you 12, and one question why we're trying to be principled, is there even one country that has entered NATO or negotiated with NATO that has not resolved the issue of state property, is there also one country that has seriously talked or ended talks with them that doesn't know whose is what? I don't believe it, and here, maybe someone will fix me. And why it can be the thesis that this can be solved and that it is wise to resolve this without solving the basic issue, it is the issues of state property. I have spoken of it, at no point questioning the adoption of this Law and the essence and conversation. We've come into this conversation, our people are taking part in the task force and they're working on it and they're close and we're just asking, we're not talking about this Law today, we're asking what's wrong with the others. And on the other hand, you said yourself, the Council of Ministers is working on this issue, working even with the international community, which is now a way to solve it with a shortcut and say - no, stop all those talks there, we'll sort it out. But I repeat, there is no capacity for such resolution and that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20489	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20490	Thank you. The last line, but I'm only reacting to the wrong quote. The Alliance for a Better Future and the first time he referred the proposal to the parliamentary procedure, last year in the fifth month, was fully based, Mr. Kalabić, on what six parties signed and agreed. So in 2012, they agreed, and then the Alliance for a Better Future accepted the deal completely agreed by six leaders, but it was already a year and a few days late. We have referred to the procedure what has been agreed and there is absolutely no misunderstanding or that it has not already been planned before we were within the majority of this Parliament. And this law when we referred to the parliamentary procedure we were then in a position within this Parliament, not as an opposition, so it is addressed on time, entirely, regardless of what we are an opposition. So, you've agreed on these changes, agreed on this law, and it will be adopted that way. I say these 63 locations, however tense I am, one way or another, they will be registered to whoever uses them, or the Department of Defense. Can we find the capacity to negotiate other assets today, that's a big question. It's a question that remains, as they say, in the negotiation process. But we must avoid the trap that there is always something conditioned, that it is always something related to something and that it is the brakes of BiH on the way to a better process and normal processes that every BiH citizen deserves and deserves this state. Niko one is talking about how jurisdiction, what the Constitution has given, what the Constitution has put in place, is clear entity competences, and no one is talking about entity or any other processes, we are talking about what is in the interest of every BiH citizen. If we want to move that to the policy field and make it the policy where we score in one way or another, make sure we don't do good for ourselves, we won't do it in the interest of the state, and we won't, at least, do it in the interest of the citizens, because we here are absolutely dealing with things that are clear, brought, regulated and set up in that process, we don't want to solve them. We must then find a reason to dispute in any way what the position has proposed, the opposition, this one we must tie to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20491	Time. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20492	Tieting two shoes in the same knot doesn't give us a point.). Now we tie two shoes together, tie our boots together, and we can't go forward, we have to make that clear to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20493	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear guests. Today, to be serious people in the most serious parliament called the BiH Parliament in this country, see how we are discussing it. We are discussing the fate of our country and our country. I, Mr. Kalabić, may have loved this country a thousand times more than you do, and perhaps I respect the state more than you do, which is called BiH. I tell you this honestly and openly, but I said maybe, you think about those words of mine. We always distort some things to cause disdain or a positive relationship between you who represent your position. If you were a linguist, I'd tell you that you're wrong, if you'd made a lapus lingu, NATO didn't bomb Srbin by bombing in the course of an unfortunate, damned war, which is behind us, was done by the UN order. The NATO alliance was just one of the executioners of gentlemen. But good, good. When it comes to this law, perspective military property that is definitely trying to get rid of our proposal, and yet I'm going back to the first part that I said, well, you've been taking part in a little bit of us, not a little bit but a good, to be an opposition, but it doesn't give you the right to forbid me to love what I love and to respect what I respect and to try to improve it along with the other three members of our club, because we're joint promoters. In history, only one of Gordy's knots is known. BiH is again... every day, as someone said to the famous one, in every respect we are increasingly making these damn proud knots, which we cannot resolve more than we are entangled in them. This is exactly the way we tried to help our country, our country, to solve this painfully difficult problem as quickly as possible. Because I have great experience in the NATO alliance, even before I started working and dealing with this policy, ten years ago as an officer of my army and the Golden Lily guest of honor in the capital of the Republic of Turkey in Ankara, where my hosts were, of course, the Army of the Republic of Turkey, one of the most powerful organizations after the military, it is the Union of veterans of the war of the Republic of Turkey and, of course, the commander of the Turkish Military Academy of Generals who welcomed us and received us. For two days we discussed their experiences as officers, because I am an officer, too, of the good and bad foreign NATO alliance, and there was always, 10 years ago, a question – and why are you not already on your way to NATO? It was very difficult for some people outside this country to answer about the things that are happening in my country. But I want to tell you these experiences. I've often had meetings with representatives of the NATO alliance in Butmir, I've been invited to every ceremony, we've often talked to the commanders of different units, and it was all about when you're finally going to take that first step. I think this is one decisive step in everything we've prepared and varied so far in this way that we vary, now we want to join NATO, now we don't want to go to NATO, every argument for good, and everyone against is even better, for some. So here's where we came from, we're just trying this little one segment, this segment that we need to continue on the path that we started, and then we cut it suddenly. I'm afraid, Mr. 14 Kalabić and all the rest of you, don't be mad at this finding of mine, I'm an old man, I'm blind... just so I think a lot, and I can't watch anymore, it seems to me that the curse of crimology, as I called it, has slowly slipped into BiH. Don't let the ideal be one crime, please, this country certainly didn't deserve it. And whoever tries to play with that kind of fire, I'm afraid they'll burn in it. And I believe that there is little objection and that in such a fierce contradiction of what we propose without any valid argument. And if you're as honest as a man and you and all of you who object against this law, you have your arguments against him, I think the arguments that have been made, to be fair, by representatives of the Federation of BiH are much more logical, much stronger and much fairer than anything you claim otherwise. Think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20495	Thank you. Next to the discussion came Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20496	Dear Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that I will support this proposal by the conclusion of my esteemed colleague, Božo Ljubić, because he does not make a division, nor separates the two laws that were previously said, a signed agreement between political leaders, that they will be dealt with in the package. A package unpacked, and I don't mind what the bill proposed by the opposition, on the contrary, not to repeat the old phrases, everyone has the right to propose, both the individual and the club and the positions and the opposition, but from the point of view of solving this overall problem, I won't say it's problematic, but it's impossible to single out just and pass the Act on the availability of immovable military property from the general and constituent Law on State Property, whose law on immovable military property is part of that Act. Furthermore, I have spoken here several times, and I think my colleagues from the RS, when the time comes to join the NATO Pact, and if ever it comes, does anyone really think you don't know the results of the referendum, the RS has said they will decide at the referendum whether to enter the NATO Pact or not, whether these results are unknown to you. I'm neither looking at a cup nor throwing beans, but here, to make no mistake, over 70% of RS citizens, and 95% of Srbin, are against BiH entering the NATO pact. And that's quite clear. I don't know why it bothers some of us here when we politicians say, and our leaders, that we will, of course, respect Serbia's attitude and commitment. What's the big deal now? The other thing, here I think I've repeated a dozen times, if we had a theme here our NATO pact would bypass and pray to Bog that we wouldn't be there. It is important here that some barracks will be registered to the state of BiH, rather than our generations will suffer the bombing of the poored uranium for centuries. My Hadžićan, today in Bratanac, die four times more than in other municipalities and regions. Unfortunately, it continues in Hadzic, where there are no Srbin today, because the poored uranium is not eliminated in a year, two, but in 500 years and thousands of years. I never did, and I talked to NATO representatives both in Brussels and here when they came and I always ran it for them, and it's not exactly the point that we were bombed by the UN, it's the NATO Pact. The General Assembly never made a decision on the NATO Pact's intervention, but the Security Council, which was illegal, if that's what we're going to do. 15 Second, everything here is problematic, not just about the bill. And let us once, and I have repeated this several times, we intend to have these NGOs that will come out after this session – the most inefficient Parliament in the Balkans, the region, in Europe. So I kept telling them, so kids understand, is there any parliament in Europe like BiH? Three constituent nations, Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci and all others, the remaining and impossible to find a solution as in Croatia, which is a one-national state. Serbia is also a one-national state, let there be a minority there I don't know how much, but you know who's bringing politics and who's setting it up. So the Serbian people who are majority in Serbia. Now, this cannot happen here that the majority, according to the new census, the Bosniak people revoted minority nations, regardless of our numbers, without speaking Croatian, which is negligible, excuse me, gentlemen of the Hrvat, but according to the '91 list. For years, half of you are gone, so it's my sort of intervention on that. So, without our consent, to adopt this today, and we won't, BiH will never enter the NATO Pact, so you bring whatever laws you want. Furthermore, what Mr. Belkić said about the conclusion that someone was voting from the Srbin. I won't rule out that it's not possible. Here we voted on hundreds of different conclusions and none of them were ever carried out. It's possible that even then someone pressed this key and didn't even watch what it was about, and now it's like something in his biography that was being controversial that he voted for it. I know I'm not, and here I am. But I voted then, I was naive, I'm voting against this today, I'm not naive, I've come to everything. Because I won't and I don't want BiH to be Ukraine where interests will be defended by someone from the United States who's nowhere near here. What was once, and the NATO Pact was important, so it was a bipolar system, where only Amerikanac determined who would do what. Today, thank Bog it's not like that. However anyone understands, and I will get criticism from everyone, but I will say – brotherly Russia stood on its feet, Putin says her,... what I say, and not you from there coming from Canada and your resolution from not knowing any parliaments. Eh, since that's the case, no one will challenge my right to support brotherly Russia. Crime within Russia, my congratulations to my Parliament, not Parliament, will not go as my esteemed one, indeed whom I appreciate, my colleague Bećirović, on behalf of Parliament, sent congratulations to various parliamentarians and presidents. No, I'm just saying, in my name, congratulations on my behalf. And go back to the law in question. Why isn't this couple respected, that's what I'm going to call him, or two of these laws, to come into parliamentary procedure and plead today? And there we have it, and everybody's calling for the signature of six leaders. Who today, I ask the question, deny the signature of his leader, his leader? I respect my leader and will never deny what he says. I'm just sorry that I'm smaller and a half function, that I don't have that kind of influence to say -- well done, you know, I just support you. So that's it. Of course, as I support the head of klub Kalabić, who understands it better, is there near Banja Luka, and I am not informed of what they are doing in Banja Luka, but I hear things like this. And let me finish. So, gentlemen, don't propose the laws you know in the beginning that they won't get support. And at the end of the day, we have people for another four months, let's be friends, brotherly welcome, so whoever stays in the next session, let him adopt whatever he wants. And, let's never forget, you plan on these NGOs that tonight, on BH TV, they're in charge, every other night. Every other night, and I pay for that TV, I pay for it, I have to fight for that service. And tonight, just look at the diary or tomorrow. Maybe tonight he'll give up for my discussion, and he won't, but instead of four frequent guests, that's what they do. And, Parliament efficient, pay this size, thieves sit there. What the NGO never says is he's making monitoring. Did we ever postpone any session that didn't have a quorum, did we fight with our shoes here, did we fight here, did we insult ourselves individually and internationally? No, they'll never praise it, but the MP's salary is 7,000 marks, they're doing nothing and they've brought it in, they've implemented the projected laws 5%. 5% of you don't need to be here, making an accident for BiH. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20497	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismeta Dervoz, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, we'd appreciate it, of course, I guess all of our colleagues and colleagues, that, if anything, we'd stick to the agenda. We've heard everything and everything, and we can talk about it, if our esteemed colleague Jovičić allows, and in the breaks, we can possibly exchange our opinions and views and possibly consult on some things. But the agenda is the agenda. This was all, it just wasn't about the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20499	Thank you. I also noticed in the presentation and in your clubs that they had come out of the act, and I did not warn them. You know that my position is that the MP has the right in his business time to stick to the subject. It's hard to tell when it comes out of the topic or not. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I respect all my colleagues. Of course, I have great respect for the respected Mrs. Dervoz. We're off topic, but here's to just going back to one topic. I support Mr Ljubić's proposal for a conclusion. We will vote against us Serbian MPs. It's a finished story. Is there any need for further discussion, you understand? Here's your theme. You proposed part of the Law, the part in the package, how the prospect of military property should be regulated under the State Property Act. If it were two on the agenda, there would be a much more serious debate and we might be able to accept your proposal. But you've only suggested the part that answers to this as reportedly being resolved and we would, as a result, enter the NATO Pact. We'll never get in and maybe not then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20501	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20502	Very briefly, it concerns Mr Jovičić's quote, or commentary on his proposal for the conclusion of his colleague Ljubić. Me, of course, every club will decide how it will go, but here's a chance to make a similar statement about that conclusion. I don't think it's logical to simply give the conclusion of this species while we have the law in the procedure. So, counterpart Ljubić calls on the Council of Ministers to propose a law concerning this area at the moment when we consider the Law in our first reading. I don't have a problem with the conclusion, but I don't think it's even 17 colleges in this way to treat the law that we've just started talking about. So we prejudge how the debate will end. Therefore, the SDP Club will not be declared to this conclusion until the discussion is completed. If this law does not get a majority, it is no problem to support that anyone else, so here is the Council of Ministers, in line with the proposal of counterpart Ljubić, proposes the Law. But here, let's try to be a little collegiate and not prejudge, while we have a debate on how the law will end.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20503	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20504	Well more, Mr. Chairman, as an explanation. Dear counterpart Magazinoviću, I would be happy today and I would have had a completely different discussion if you and I from the SNSD supported your leader and our leader's proposals and signatures, how this will be resolved in Parliament. Then we shouldn't need a proposal to conclude Mr Ljubić, nor would we wait for the decision of the Council of Ministers, which has already been returned several times, to agree there, but would also support the initiative by you and we as the parliamentary majority and the most numerous clubs in Parliament, and then you could expect the passage of this Law. Not the one in the segment that was proposed, but these two laws that treat this issue. And your leader, and I haven't heard from any of you in the SDP that you're against what Mr. Lagumdžija signed to do so. That's not the proposal. That is the essence of why I said it and why I repeat that Srbin from the RS will not support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20505	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20506	Thank you. Ma is not controversial, and it is clear that the SDS' position on this issue is clear, but when the leader's agreement and everything is mentioned, so I would, perhaps, this is an opportunity to find out about the SDP and SNSD meeting in Sarajevo. After the meeting, SDP leader Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija said he agreed with SNSD President Milorad Dodik the text of the Law on Military and State Property. So here, let's see where is this harmonised text of the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20507	Thank you. Did you give up on the replica? You gave up. The second deputy chairman, counterpart Denis Bećirović, discussed. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20508	First of all, I would like to say that it is absolutely true that the president of the SDP Club does not need to prejudge the outcome of the vote under this bill. A colleague, Ljubić, submitted a proposal for a conclusion, assuming that most will not be needed here at the House of Representatives. I will therefore propose two conclusions in case this proposal does not receive the necessary majority. Before I say what these conclusions are, I have to say that this question and this topic, which we are currently discussing, is really one serious question, so we won't be wrong if we say a serious question. There are two options, not only for BiH, but for the West, and there are two responsibilities in this story, not only BiH, but also the West. There are two options when it comes to this. One is that we become a full member of NATO's alliance in a shorter period, and another option, so I am particularly emphasising the responsibility of the West, is that of one part of the indivisible BiH state, a new kind of Kaliningrad area in the heart of Europe. And there is responsibility, not only for BiH, but also for the West. We also need a new approach, a step-by-step approach on this issue. We must not stop this Euro-Atlantic path of BiH because we cannot resolve some difficult issues. The difficult question is, in reality BiH is the issue of state property, open and formal in 2004, here we have been trying to resolve it for 10 years. It hasn't been resolved yet. Whether to hold the whole country, especially in changed international circumstances, as a hostage to the issue or to try to solve what is possible in the given situation and to move on. I think we should take a step by step and take this first important step with the issue of immovable military property. Given that, I suggest two conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliament's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers with delivering, as soon as possible, a draft law on the availability of immovable military property, with the aim of dynamicising BiH's road to NATO. 2. After the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts the above-mentioned Law, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver the draft law on state property, which I fully stress, fully respects the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling on state property. That's my two conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20509	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20510	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. There's a law here today, the truth in the first reading, it's not an emergency procedure, it's nothing, which is good. And, it is a law that practically resolves one of the conditions set by BiH on its Euro-Atlantic path, which we ourselves have accepted, so to join NATO. 19 I, as a politician, view every integration not as a goal, but as a means of achieving the goal, and the attainable goal is to improve, that is, the progress of all BiH citizens. We should also be clear, Mr. Professor Dr. Velimir Srića wrote in his book that it is impossible in Europe to avoid the integration of any state. However, in order for these integrations to be on our terms, we need to meet some criteria. In order for us to integrate under our conditions, he said that it is up to us to depend on the development of the EU. It's not up to us, so we don't have it. We should have vetoed the Security Council. We don't have that either. We're supposed to be dependent on American energy stability. It's not that either. It should depend on us for far east industrial stability. And it's not up to us. We should have our financial institution at the world level. And we don't have that. So these five conditions, which are the assumption that we could integrate under our terms, we don't. So we share the fate of nearly 200 countries that don't have it but live. So we share the fate of nearly 200 countries that are forced to integrate under other people's terms. And that's nothing new. And if we don't want to, then we consciously maltenes as kamikazes are destroying the standard of all of us and our citizens. So we have no other choice. And that's why I answered my word to say that it's time for us to, haste, to adopt this law as soon as possible. So the law is in first reading. We have the right to debate, we have the right to amendments, we have the right, but my belief is, and my current political option, and my current political belief is that it's good to go into Euro-Atlantic integration. No question of any other integration should be closed here, if it will bring well-being to our citizens. You don't need to run away from any integration, not with the Russian Federation, not with China, not with... here's the so-called. ... four of these countries which, therefore, we need to be open to all integrations, but not integration to be our goal, but to be our means of achieving the goal of our citizens' well-being. Unfortunately, if we continue this way, we will actually win those who say BiH is impossible. We'll just waste time, lose everything, and then we'll all be impossible and we won't give answers for what we're in charge of and for what the citizens have chosen us for. And that's why I suggest we support the adoption of this law. I also suggest these conclusions that are colleagues, that we do this as soon as possible and finally open the door for the citizens of BiH, because in this way we are only destroying ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20511	Thank you. Next up, Boško Tomić's esteemed colleague, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20512	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, I welcome you all. And here, let me just say a few words. Today we also have a debate on the military commissioner's situation in the area, talking about the situation in these barracks. By seeing it every day in the field, it can be realized that this property that we have declared prespective, it, as far as the military is concerned, cannot serve for nothing. It's nothing like perspective property. These are mined areas, semi-destructed buildings, completely infrastructure-free, but it's only important to say that it belongs to the BiH state. I wish once again, which logically was, to make a nice review of whether at all, what are all perspective locations. I know specifically the location on the Palaces where it hasn't been demined yet, where a lot of it has been destroyed, where objects are catastrophic, sneezing, where nothing looks like anything, but vast space. And instead of telling the opština of paliti – we give it to you to manage it in such a way as to create an industrial zone in which the employers will offer to come into space and do so. So, gentlemen, my 20 darlings, what has been declared a perspective, persective property is that property upstairs hotels in Jahorina, etc. What's the perspective for? Let tourism begin to develop, to start to deal with many things, things from the economy. And in that variant, when the economy strengthens, then we can discuss it this way, say what it is, what kind of army we need, how we should go. Another problem with which, which is here, if it's already agreed to go along with military and state property, and if that's agreed on at the highest peak, from where now to individually step forward, let's go to the military first, and we'll go to the state. Well, you know, from the RS, it's always been a condition for us to solve each other together, and then there's always a few things to suggest that we try each other. Well, here we go, and Mr. Bećirović, I'm sorry he came out, and he says, "Let's adopt one first and give the Council of Ministers to the other... Together, prepare and discuss, and then in that variant, we can talk about how we are going to solve this property. But I have to say that these assets, other than the location, other than the funds that would be obtained for that property, are very little worth. Selling those funds, what remains to do is make them really good conditions, because objectively we're not interested in NATO either. We now single out 300 million on an annual level for the needs of the military, and as far as I can remember, NATO regulations are far higher than the budget. Thus, we are not yet ready to participate, nor have enough resources, nor do we have the need for that. We can't objectively, I can't tell which of us to look for, but we can hardly meet these conditions objectively. For these reasons, let's go together to both laws and in that variant we would be welcome, then we would open up the possibility of having a quality discussion. I don't think they will, but at least they won't get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20513	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20514	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I, therefore, for the discussion, is not a replica, this is just a continuation of what the esteemed colleague was talking about, so we all know that what Mr. Tomić was talking about is happening, that the objects are failing, that they are not serving anyone. And if anything, that thing requires the activity of all of us to get rid of it. And there's no problem at all, so as far as I'm concerned, to sort this thing out, to finally start running these things in a way and with these immovable things in the way of a good host, the way property should normally be managed. But here's the law that should allow us to step forward towards NATO. The issue of state property, why can't that issue be connected to anyone talking about it. I didn't want to open that kind of discussion here. Be careful, when you read the Constitutional Court Decision, you will see that there are two types of state property. It is one that reflects the statehood, sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH, which are good in general use and good in particular interest. That is, water, rivers, ore of wealth. So, BiH must, it must regulate the regime of that property, and it is actually the primary state property. State property are also these individual things – barracks, 21 paylines, etc., real estate, but it's not really a key thing. The key thing is this first property that needs to be arranged. It must therefore be regulated and treated by a special law. No problem, therefore, is that we are now comparing these things, individual things, and perspective locations, so the prospect of immovable property to solve, that the state can finally be legitimateized towards NATO, i.e. the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces as an entity, i.e. the holder of that property. She is the titlemaker, which is how it stems from all agreements and from all, the BiH Constitution. But the public books aren't registered as the titler, and that's where Yugoslavia still stands, the Federal Defence Secretariat. And that's why this law serves. So it's a booking, it's not, this law is not a legal basis. This law is the basis for that, therefore, to change. Whoever owns it, he orders that this change be made. I had a need for these interventions and clarifications, so things, so they're perfectly clear and that's why we're in this institution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20515	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20516	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here, we've been discussing one bill for almost two hours like it's some important law. And I ask the question now to all of us, and also to the Proposer, what do we need this Law for? What does he solve, what problem does he solve? I'm sorry, he was at the beginning of the defence minister, so just when the debate on the issues he could give some answers the man had gone to. So, the defence minister doesn't care, and by the logic of things, if this is one of the conditions for joining the MAP, and if it's one of the steps to join NATO, I don't see a more inviting ministry than the Ministry of Defence that should convince us here for hours that this is a very important issue. We're here today to discuss whether or not we're going to join NATO. Maybe it's good to open up here and that debate once. But we in the constitution have a provision that says foreign policy management is the responsibility of the BiH presidency. As far as I know, the same Presidency, which is irrelevant now in which composition, but I think in this conference, has brought a document that seems to me to be called the Foreign Policy Guidelines, which highlights BiH's priorities, means not that this is one of the issues that we will be dealing with, but that BiH's priorities are European and Euro-Atlantic integration. We would do well to review that presidency, to see on whose behalf, in whose name they determine that these are our priorities, and today we have heard, here are very, very bile debates that say we never, and neither will we. I mean, uh, let's see why we're even, why we're wasting time about things that we don't, that we don't need. I'm in a dilemma, I have to be honest, and here's what Honorable counterpart Džaferović said, but before him, dear colleague Belkić. We have something called military property. I'm sorry that in this law and it's not answered, a definition of what military property is, what is it, and then what is perspective, so what is unspective property. But we know that there's some immovable property that we, here I'm going to say, is now called military property. Who manages this property today, whose property is it today? And we have heard the interpretation that it implies, if, at a certain point, it was registered to the Federal Secretariat for People's Defence, and by the basis of the Dayton Peace Agreement, based on the Agreement on Succession, based on this, on the state of BiH, it is then understood whose property it is. So what are we discussing today? Why are we questioning something that is known to be? And in trying to define it, it's as if we're removing the shortcomings. And who set the condition, who set the condition that the entry of these perspective sites is our only condition to take that step towards the MAP? I don't know. Since neither the Presidency nor the Ministry of Defence has submitted any exposé to us here, to say – the distinguished gentlemen and ladies' deputies, you, you are expected to pass the law, to make a decision, to take measures to ensure that BiH meets one of its priority foreign policy objectives, called joining NATO, and we need a law that will define, this may be how the SBB colleagues have said. And then we would probably be, as I say, both disabled or much easier to make decisions that we now find very difficult to make. What it says here, with some minor technical deficiencies in this law, this, don't get me wrong, this doesn't smell or smell. So this can be adopted and can not be adopted. Here, since it doesn't hurt, it doesn't hurt for me, me and my colleagues at the club will support the principles of this law because they really don't hurt, so these solutions. Here, it is defined that the perspective locations are the ones set by the Presidency. How could the presidency determine that something was perpsective and not ours, wasn't it? Whose property does the Bureau manage? I mean, these are all questions that we, here if we really want to discuss this, should we say whose property? Is it someone, they are, a special story is the one which was partly touched by both Mr. Tomić and Mr. Džaferović, that this property that is still tangible declines as Alajbeg's straw. So she's really in the state she's in today. As no one cares about her, it really requires a hasty response and the question is first, to the BiH presidency, which is the civilian commander of the Armed Forces, so probably when it can decide on determining the perspective and opacity of the part of the property, to tell us what does not care about the property. The Department of Defense, the question of who has the right to not care about destroying state property or military property? Who's that? He's got a responsibility. At the same time, we are investing considerable resources to discuss this, here are several mandates here, in the lease of business spaces to accommodate the institutions of the same state, and on the other hand, we are failing some of the objects that no one cares about. And then we go to argue and question the presidency's guidelines, whether or not we're going to join NATO. And the Presidency has long established this and has never changed that Decision, and only constitutionally competent to establish guidelines for the foreign and foreign policy. And part of that foreign policy is joining NATO. So, for that reason, I think that this law that does not harm anything, which maybe, here's the condition, I have to say I don't know, if that condition, if that condition... is set as a condition for joining the MAP, I don't see any reason why they wouldn't accept that condition, because I think there's no easier condition. These conditions are much more difficult than our conduct and how responsible we are for all that we have, and that is who we do not know how to have. So here's why I call on everyone to support the principles and who thinks we should fix something in the amendment phase to fix the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20517	Thank you. House Chairman, Honorable Representative Milorad Živković, debate. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20518	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm not going to talk about this law at all because you can all read my discussion and it's accessible to everyone who wants to deal with what we've been doing... In 2013, in this same place and held this same debate. So the same thing to say for me is unnecessary and a waste of... time. But I don't think what we did today is a waste of time for at least two reasons. One reason is that people who forget themselves, what they did in one year and then call on it in the second year, should be reminded from time to time. Namely, the conclusion that I suggested was then, it was a date of 19/09/2013, – it is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to refer by the end of September 2013 to the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the availability of immovable military property and the Law on State Property, here in this Parliament did not get a majority, and it was voted to remind you, after we voted not to accept the Law on Military Property. So, the people who are talking -- let's vote on the law first, and then after that, there's a conclusion, they don't even know what they were doing last year, how they did on this same subject last year... They're trying to talk here again about how they're big parliamentarians, how they're going to work in the interest of this or that, and they're not actually telling the truth. On the other hand, I will remind my colleagues from the SDS, I have waited for everyone to apologize that I could finally speak, unfortunately there are none more, there are no more than there are, that counterpart Beriz Belkić was right, that they had reached a conclusion on the matter, by the pravobranilaštvo General, the request of the House of Representatives to book these assets, Babalj in the re-election, there was 9 only from the Republic of 11, of the 10 present, 11, and there were not enough votes against in the second round, and so the conclusion passed. Speaking of these colleagues who were probably... how important it was to know what the interests of the RS were and when they were going to come to collect, I was just waiting for my colleague, Beriz, to draw that conclusion in these two years, and here to show everyone what was done when someone didn't even know why he voted and how he voted. Not to mention that in this House, which they place on the agenda also by colleagues from the SDS, they do not know that with one vote any decision can be made if everyone is abstentioned, because even so far, for all these years, they have not learned how to vote in this Parliament. So we've lost our colleagues for two hours, and I don't have any problem with us and today's session not ending but continuing. It's up to you to have your discussions that we've already said once what we have on this just repeat here in front of everyone's cameras, but I'd ask you to be consistent, even if what you said last time just keep doing the same thing now. Thank you. I'm closing the argument. No one's signed up again. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered by the Council of Ministers on 30.01.2014. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 27.02.2014. 24 I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20520	Here, if there's anyone here in front of the promoter, I'm the one who called to make it clear to me, in my opinion, a kind of misunderstanding. But I'd also like to point to another one in a series of examples, really in a series of examples, of an incredible irresponsibility, and of slowness, and of communication to the commitments undertaken. It is here that BiH signed an agreement with NATO member states in 04/08, signed an agreement between NATO member states and other states, including BiH, which participate in a partnership for peace, on the legal position of their forces in certain situations, etc. So that was 2008. 2010. The Council of Ministers shall decide on a working group, etc. And, therefore, to shorten, five years and more later, we have this as a synchronising and providing status, namely the legal position of our forces within these peacekeeping missions. What happened in the meantime, did we have the need to exercise the rights under that Agreement, to resolve the status of our people in these missions, etc., I don't know. But here I am, going back to what I came forward for, so other than this whole situation, as far as I understand the current Law on the Defence, so Article 13(6) practically provides for the powers of the BiH Ombudsman to represent BiH before international courts and international arbitration. I don't know if there was any need for what's going on today. And this second amendment has nothing to do with this Agreement that I'm talking about, in the context of this harmonisation, so please, let me explain to me if I might be right.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20521	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered by the Council of Ministers 04.02.2014. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 27.02.2014. I'm opening a debate. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20523	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make a statement about this Amendments and Supplements Act which has been practically defined or sought to resolve the issue of traineeship, procedures for the admission of employees, internal organisation, overtime, use of annual holidays, fees, then overtime work, cancellation, penalties, etc. These 25 amendments include, in practice, 36 members, of which I consider some 6 members to be particularly interesting, which are: Article 3 in which the employer is practically obliged to cancel a public ad, i.e. if there is a cancellation of a public ad, that the procedures must continue and end within the prescribed time limit set there. In Article 4, it is very important that the employer cannot conclude a new contract at a certain time with employees without calling a public competition. It is also very important in Article 7 to prescribe the obligation to keep records, because today it is the fact that we have in certain institutions that we do not know practically who is all employed, what status enjoys, how is paid etc.. In Article 7, this is about, trying... to resolve, with that, and there should be... some amendment procedure to strengthen and bring this Article 7 to an appropriate function. Article 30 defines a reduction in the absolute limitation of claims, as the fact is that many employees today cannot, on a variety of grounds, use their rights by law, even collective agreements, but these things are defined and reduced by a period of three years to a year, which can also be considered acceptable. But something that's particularly interesting is that in article 34, the level of punishment for a legal person is defined from 2,000 to 5,000 marks, so to the limit of the crime. However, I believe that it will also be very important in this article to adopt, i.e. the amendment to try to amend a provision defined here for legal persons, the responsible person in the legal person, because the fact that the responsible persons are most often from subjective and objective practically guilty of failures in the business, i.e. institutions that define this Law. I believe that responsibility, first and foremost, will need to be changed if we want responsibility, first and foremost, to put the responsible persons first. I believe that, until the second reading, we will try these things with the terms and I hope that this Law will have its effects in the next period. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20524	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20525	I'll do it very briefly. I don't know if our Constitutional Commission had one document that I'm going to talk about right now or if it's intended to consider it in phase two and see it. I am talking, therefore, about the document of the Independent Union of State and Police Officers and Employees in BiH institutions, the judicial authority and public institutions of BiH, so one act in which the objections were made to this Bill and this act was delivered to MPs through our services, although it was addressed to Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda probably at the stage of production and apparently that the Council of Ministers did not treat these remarks. I think that, by respecting the principle of hearing and interested parties to this Law, I think that MPs, of course, speak for themselves, should see at this second stage what is justifiable and acceptable about these remarks that have been made here. Here, I've reported more officially that there is an attitude and opinion of those concerned by this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20526	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20527	Here, Chairman, I'll do it very briefly. So I suggest we support this law in our first reading. So he certainly very qualitatively corrects what we have seen in practice is a problem, but here, and I announce, in a certain way, a set, let me say, an amendment that would be in this amendment phase, which should further improve this text. I came forward for the reason that, in some ways, I also suggest what Mr Belkić said earlier, so in the meantime, we have one reaction that came from the Syndicates and I expect that we will also have a debate about it when we have the opportunity to react in the amendment phase, because they are quite logical and they are quite logical, and they are, quite, at the site of the objections that came from the Syndicates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20528	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered by the Council of Ministers on 05.02.2014. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 12.03.2014. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on the principles on 27.02.2014. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20530	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Since it's about the law in first reading only briefly. When it comes to the principles of that Law, I mean not only that there is a legal basis for the adoption of laws, but the adoption of this Act completes a set of laws relating to electronic administration and electronic business. So this House has already passed the Law on Electronic Signature, the Law on Electronic Legal Transport, and this would complete a set of those laws. Although it is said in the light of this Law that there is no related AKI which could be related to the adoption of the Law, we do know that the adoption of this Law is, in fact, our obligation created by the signing of the European Partnership with BiH and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Namely, there are concrete EU directives that require BiH to pass a similar law, or complete a set of those laws. Why is this law good? Because it is finally equating an electronic document with a written form, and that involves us, not only in international flows, but we will also speed up administrative proceedings and judicial proceedings, issuing public documents and, therefore, making requests,... 24 hours a day, reducing the time needed to make certain solutions, transaction costs. 27 So it is all something that represents our obligation, but it will also enable us finally to move forward in public administration reform and to adapt our institutions to the demands of end-users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20531	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20532	Here, I'll do it again very briefly. So, I will support this bill in first reading, but I want to point to one situation. So this Law can be a great example when compromise solutions are made and when agreements are reached, etc., what laws we get, and how much they are implemented, and how we question the functionality of the country, etc. Just two, three things, so look at Article 2, so this classic unitary centralized country, look at Article 2 of its jurisdiction. Practically, the BiH state institutions are obliged to recognise that local communities have a supermation over the state law. So entity laws have a supermation of state law, etc. Take a good look at Article 2. Therefore, this internal country is practically unable to implement its own law in its own institutions in relation to entities. As regards the application of this Act, it is conditional upon the establishment of the Office for the Control and Accreditation of Certificaters provided for by the Law on Electronic Signature, which was adopted long ago 2006. It's not known if that office was even established. Therefore, practically this Law cannot be applied. And if applied to which happiness, or if it is tried to implement in practice, it will make the whole confusion and misunderstandings in the competences of entities etc. But here's what they say, give me what you give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20533	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20534	Thank you. I also believe that the Law on the Electronic Document needs us, but in this proposed proposal, I think that Article 2(2) also does not clarify enough, because it applies only to certain parts or, above all, to the BiH institution, because it is known that there are certain laws in the entity area that regulate this area. As for the details that bring me into the dilemma, and it would be necessary to include them in this proposal, it is an archival requirement. What about them, where the archivists will meet after the adoption of this Law. What about the recognition of electronic documents from abroad, how, practically, that surveillance will be done, and the control, who is behind it. What if the creator ceases to work, if by law his rights are taken from him, who will follow that surveillance. Beriz also said, or asked what happened to the office of surveillance, whether it would be part of the Ministry of Transport and Communications in time prepared, and I fear that all our activities in this ministry 28 are in great delay, I fear that this can also make this a far greater haemarium than we will vote this Law. Also, let us look at some of the details, such as the verification by the competent authorities when establishing this Law, on the page, or in Article 13. The promoter himself did not take a good look at the views he was referring to, so he said that the checks of Article 5 are carried out by the competent authority established by the Law on Electronic Signature, but Article 5 is exactly what he is talking about, so it should have been said in point 4. So this needs to be carefully reviewed and clarified by the elements that the Proposer warns of. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20535	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20536	I'd like to ask the secretary to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20537	How much do we have?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20538	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20539	It's been determined we don't have a quorum right now. In accordance with Article 67(3), I am setting a 60-minute break. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members allow us to continue our work. There is a quorum for work and decision-making. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. Proposal for a bill establishing the level of salary of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20542	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The issue of salaries in BiH institutions, a particular issue of salaries of top elected and appointed officials, is a subject back several years which, in my opinion, is a major burden on the work of BiH institutions, especially the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I don't think that the BiH Parliament will be able to deal with the issues that are in its jurisdiction properly until the issue is properly settled, with a certain measure, so the issue of salary levels and profits in total, including in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think that Parliament has contributed well to this, I have spoken of it many times. We tried several times to compare wages to a difficult economic and social situation. It didn't work out, it didn't go hand in hand, and now we have citizens' protests, so we have public pressure, and it's good to have one such proposal in the parliamentary procedure. That is why I, above all, plead that it is very serious and responsible to approach every initiative addressed to regulate this issue, that is, wage cuts, and also to this Law, so that Parliament and BiH institutions will not be in a position to be accused of only dealing with this issue to actually play out citizens' demands and not to do anything. We should have an honest and real intention to settle this issue, because wages are not an appropriate difficult economic and social situation in BiH. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, this proposal of yours that you have submitted, I will understand it and say that I will support it in the first reading, but there are several important things that must be answered in order for the law in the second reading to be adopted. So, I'll support it in the first reading, the SDA Club will support it in the first reading and we'll have amendments to this Law. First, when it comes to amendments, I would like to say what will be the subject of the amendment, so first of all it is not right that this assembly of Parliament regulates the rules for salaries of the next Parliament and calls on the authorities in BiH. This is a law laying down rules for a law that will be passed by a new Parliament's assembly when it comes to salaries, because the law says these are rules, a new assembly of Parliament will be proposed after the constitution, the Council of Ministers will propose and Parliament will adopt amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries. This means that the rules laid down here will not apply to the current council. That's how it comes from this law, and you explained it in your explanation. I don't think that's right and yes, if the problem is the constitutional provision of Article 9. The BiH Constitution on the ban on reduction, the reduction of salaries to current officials during the term of office, I advise both you and all of us to influence the House of Peoples, because the same political parties are represented in both the House of People and the House of Representatives, that the House of Peoples finally complete this procedure and it is possible to adopt this Law and end the procedure in the House of People at the same time, if it has good political will and if necessary. Interpreting the provision of Article 9. The BiH Constitution that speaks of the ban on paying officials during the term of office, I think that the provision is too widely interpreted, I think it needs to be interpreted restrictively or closely. This is not about reducing salaries for BiH officials, and that is not the intention, this is about total or total austerity measures throughout the Bosnian-Herzegovina society, throughout the Bosnian-Herzegovina state and at all levels of government in BiH. These are two completely different things and I think that both the existing Constitution and the existing constitutional solution is not a defence to pass a regulation that we will commit to and prescribe a lower salary and start to apply it immediately after the law has been passed, after its entry into force. And that's the first thing about what we're going to change. So we ask that the solutions that we prescribe in this Law apply immediately to this convocation, from this call to its end and to all future callings. The second thing that is very important, which you correctly reported, is the fact that you have laid down the rules only for the salaries of top officials in BiH institutions, members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And there's the point. You set the rules and you said 33 that a member of the presidency can have a salary, so the salary is not talked about total incomes, the 3.3 average salary coefficient in BiH. I think that we should objectively set things up, we shouldn't, so for the sake of the public, put as low coefficients as possible, so we don't realize them later, we need to put objective, real coefficients, make it public, and then apply it. I think the highest salary in the BiH state, and when we look at all levels of government, it should be the head of state's salary and it cannot be higher than 5 average salaries. All salaries in BiH, all other salaries in BiH must be lower than that salary and wages should be made from the municipal chief, depending on the size of the municipality, the number of residents, the number of administrations, between 2 and 3 average salaries, and then over the canton, entities to the state to the head of state who cannot be more than 5 average salaries. But that means that no one else in the state in the public sector, with everything the public sector means, and that's the budget, that's all the budget financing, all the funding from the funds, the Central Bank, the agencies, the institutions of the other, so no one can get paid, pay, more than 5 average salaries. So that's the maximum salary of the head of state. Everything else has to be under it. So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers then goes with a lower salary, chairing the House of Parliamentary Assembly with a lower salary, ministers and members of parliament with a lower salary, deputy ministers lower than that and then we reach the entities. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Easy, just a little please, I'm talking about the rules in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, about the rules in the state. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20545	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20546	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a review of our SDP club on this pay law. The law proposed by esteemed colleague Živković is, but this is a fact, actually a positive political fact, at the moment when we have daily protests of people on the streets looking for a better life and who particularly disturb the salaries of officials of any level, especially us who are exposed to practical and media exposure by counting each of our earnings and public disclosures. It has, of course, created a very negative picture of us personally, of everyone, and that's why it's good to have, among other things, that we have this law. It must have taken him long before he came, but the story of the Federation's protests isn't just a story of protests in the Federation, this law confirms that it's a story for all of BiH and that we need to start solving it right from this level. We know, therefore, that this is unique, that the problem that we are trying to solve through this Law today is a problem in the state of BiH and that all its citizens have similar or equal views of problems and equal rights. Here, when this law had just come into parliamentary procedure, and there is plenty of time, it began to spread stories, so yes, this law was sent to Parliament not to be adopted. So it was the first observation of those who felt that this law would not have a pass in the BiH Parliament and that there are many different reasons why it would not pass in Parliament. We in the SDP think this is a step to move things off the dead end. There have been attempts and previous payouts to do something on this plan and of course this Law is a support and a good step forward to achieve the savings that the Law's Proposer finally talked about and explained specifically what this could come up with. We from the SDP have already been working on some initiatives to move in this direction, so the Administrative Commission has supported initiatives to reduce income and two initiatives are currently in the process and therefore we are inclined to propose that this law be discussed together with the initiatives in the package that we have previously proposed. We think that would help make these solutions better. We have long, already here this Parliamentary Assembly, namely this House, adopted the Amendment which we have tried to make clear that a member of the Constitution which defines compensation in Parliament cannot change in the course of the term of office. This Parliament, or this House of Parliament of BiH, was manifested. However, it is somewhere in the procedure of the House of Peoples. And, we all need to look from here, we need to demand that the House of Peoples adopt the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH, not that this Law states that we are passing laws that will only apply for a future period. We are aware of the fact that given the existence of such a provision in the Constitution, this is embedded in the bill. When it comes to the coefficients that the promoter has discussed, and here is counterpart Džaferović, who discussed it, that is not the problem. The SDP will only insist on protecting the integrity of BiH institutions and establishing a hierarchical order in relation to entity, or cantonal levels, or local communities, so that this law is ultimately and enforceable and to meet its objectives. We, I must remind all of us here, we all remember that there was no obstacle and no pay cut. We have already come to the fact in this Parliamentary Assembly with the will and unanimous decision of all 35 that our incomes have been reduced by 5% and that we should not insist on doing so until after the elections. We can adopt it now, there's a way to adopt it. I don't want to, or at the SDP Club, we wouldn't want that, when it comes to saving it to be just cosmetic changes, to be in some way satisfying the demands of people on the street, not to be some half-assed solution, but to make the right and true changes that we need to make when this is at stake. We in the SDP, in line with our proposal, did not wait for the Parliamentary Assembly to declare that the salaries were reduced, that other compensations that are not listed here in this Bill proposal were reduced, we gave up the benefits and the funds and those funds, so we voluntarily gave up and send them where they are needed, so we invite other MPs to do the same thing we did at the SDP Club. Whether this Law will be adopted or not, whether it will be valid from the next term of office, from the next term of the Parliamentary Assembly or, we call on MPs to voluntarily give up and thus show that they have the most serious intentions, when it comes to achieving savings and concrete savings in the whole society. It's not just saving up in our society, we're meeting this fact, we see that it's all over the region, and maybe we're a little late for the whole region. And in the end, I have to say that we at the SDP Club will support in the first reading of this bill, but that later we will probably go with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20547	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković-Lijanović-Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20548	Thank you. I think and hope I'm one of the ones this law will apply to. If I happen to be in the Council of Ministers, then it will be even better, because it means I will be in the parliamentary majority. It'll be the right thing to do, and I hope so. Therefore, this law has grounds when it comes to my thinking, and that direction that is set I think is correct, with what else, I will insist in this article where it is said that the average salary in BiH should be put on average in the real sector. And this by classification of BiH's activity from A to Q has what activities there are, so in these activities, if it increases to increase those who are on the budget as well. Now, around the odds, big wages or low wages. So far, as far as we can see, it has been logical to make big wages so that people are more economically independent and that they can make their decisions more self-aware and independent, without the influence of parties and leaders. Obviously, we didn't make it, we increased our wages, but without the leaders here, we couldn't solve anything. I agree now that we go the other way, let's say now we're going to cut the wages, and he says, "I'm going with my consciousness, if I'm being expelled from the party, I haven't lost anything." Now, will that logic, it's a sword with two blades, and one and another logic has its faults and disadvantages. This first logic clearly didn't work out, when our salaries were high, that we were economically independent, that we could live off our salary, without a leader, no key decision could be made here. Therefore, I support the principles of this Law, with this, with these little things that, I say, should be in the real sector of the basics, should be the basis and that it is in the real sector of people in production where they work, not in the budget, where policy may be determined by 36 practically what is, it should determine the market for us, and we should, because we are those who depend on the market, from the market we fill our budgets. There's so much me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20549	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20550	Here, I'll try it for a while. I will not say what anyone has tried or what they will do. And in a way, this all kind of looks like an ash spill. I think the situation is absolutely not for some high debate and detail. And by looking at this Law, here we heard a series of remarks, etc. who say that there will probably be nothing of this law, there will be amendments, there will be debates, etc. I don't think we're in a situation to go that way, but simply make a decision, whether or not we will. So, to show by a clear gesture that we will, whether this is a solution or not. Everything else is a very bad message and very difficult to explain. As for some things, here I am now talking, trying to talk about principles, not to talk about future amendments, etc., so as to some things, these inability, the possibility of applying or not applying, I am not a lawyer and I cannot theoretically explain what this Article 9 is saying, but I know that we made a precedent, that we had a regression in this mandate, so we reduced it. Well, we had a regression, so we don't. So it's a total observation. So we already have a precedent. And I suggest we cut this short, and here I am shortening the discussion, voting to adopt it, and now we reach a conclusion. I don't know when it's going to apply, when it won't, but let's make the point that we take off what we can take off. So, pause, etc., because these receipts have ruined this system. A member of the Bureau has about now a coefficient of 5 and he would have the highest salary if there were no of our co-chairs, commissions, etc., because a member of the Bureau doesn't have it. And that's where the dysharmony was made, etc. So let's cut short, let's do something, no matter how, let's do something, because everything else is selling fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20551	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20552	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I was from the discussion, so I wasn't right at the beginning when you had the chair of the opening of your presentation, when you explained the reasons for and the proposal for this law, I wasn't from the beginning, so I couldn't possibly very clearly and... see what the purpose of this law was. So I see from the discussion the goal is, it seems to me, but here you can confirm whether it is so, to simply reduce this one total spending of budget funds, to remain more money where it should be, for the needs of the citizens of the BiH state. And for us as elected officials, 37 of the most legislative authorities, the authorities in BiH, to be reduced pay or, pay here, or, this is about wages. I support it anyway, we've already talked, I support your intentions, I support your idea, but I think this is a very important law. I've been listening to stories here, from the beginning, or the first points of the agenda, when we talked about the Law on Perspective Military Property, which we've been talking about here for one year, it's not that much, but it's about whether or not. And once upon a time the leaders agreed, I don't know, it seems to me third month last year, and then we said – it's a very important law, and it's a regular procedure, and it needs a debate, etc. This is also a very important law. What you have suggested concerns one segment of this society, in order to save in the budget. Here comes my colleague, Beriz Belkić, and I'm about on this one trail, and I'm not sure if I'm going to support this law this way. If we are talking about overall savings within BiH institutions, we are talking about BiH institutions. You have... this law mentioned a number of institutions. So, the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Deputys, members of the Bureau and MPs and envoys to the House of Peoples. I think the road, this is exactly what my colleague Beriz Belkić was saying, is that at this point we bring what we can bring. We don't need the law here. For the last time in this session of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, there were words, which we can do, what we can't do. We can end a separate life, we can end a flat-rate break for professional representatives, we can cancel those who don't have a salary, increase the flat that he's not 700 and a few marks, but that here he is,... 1,500 marks. We have to pass the law in order to cut our wages. Your intentions must be good. We've already done this here in this House, we've done this precedent, we've violated the Constitution of Article 9. The Constitution, paragraph 2, seems to me. We can do it one more time, but there's no need. I say, if the aim is general savings, and here we have some reports, audit reports on the work of BiH institutions. As I recall, but here I may be wrong now, that BiH institutions have 3,500 units, of which 2,150, 2,200 serve exclusively for luxury. So my proposal would be to quickly save, make a quick decision of the Council of Ministers to sell a thousand cars tomorrow. We can do that tomorrow. So we get 20,000 marks on average, that's one 20 million marks. We don't have a thousand registrations, we don't have a thousand services, we don't have a thousand tires, we don't even know how many, I guarantee, 50 grand, 50 million marks at the level... That's it, that's it. If we cancel, I say we can also make a decision, all of what we, I don't know, belongs here. If, we had meaning here recently colleagues of Lozančić, a representative question where we saw one charm, and we just get to know whether, the charm that BiH institutions at the same address, in the same space, pay different prices of space 20 or 30 marks. Even the same institution arranged in the same building, I don't know, twice. You've seen it from the agent's question. Well, then we can make a sudden decision to coordinate, that it can't be the center of Sarajevo, more than 20 marks. We've seen in Mostar there, here's a colleague of Vrankć turning around, there's 34 to 10 marks, because it can't be more than 15 marks. And we can bring that. We should set ourselves a goal and say, to this consumer budget that is 850 million marks for wages and fees, so I didn't even support it, and when we realized the needs of the parties then we took off there from the Ministry 10 million marks for displaced and avoided to meet certain party appetites and interests. I suggest to you the chairman, you last said to show with your example that today you give up your official cell phone, your official vehicle, that you don't go home in an official car, which is the same thing as those two who left you, they have thousands of mobile marks and they have a constant car ride, one of them is a stolen car. And let him pay for that car. Here, get him to turn down his salary and get 38 to pay for that car. Well, that's how we save it, that's how we're gonna save it. That's why I said I didn't... We need to distinguish between receipts and salaries, receipts and wages. I will mention you here once again, not us here, we all know, here, the journalists will pass it on, listen, and say what they are..., how much income they are in the institutions, the public institutions of BiH, from the Derk. I'll remind you here, there's a man in the paper, 6,500 marks have received, he uses an official car for 24 hours. Now for the weekend I was, I was down in Makarska on Sunday. You know how many official cars I've seen, I recognize them? Now, that's the state of BiH. That's what we need to bring. We can bring that back this week. What he's saying is, I said, if someone had absolute authority,...so here, we have absolute power of this Parliament, it's just a matter of desire, it would solve this country's problems in six months, in this part of financial. I didn't say, we can, if we're for NATO, whether we're for NATO or not, that's some other stuff. About this wasteful, in this part, this can be solved by one move, if we're ready for it. But we, I say again, are not ready to make some rules of the game, that space, there's no story of whether they're after grandma or by uncles, that they can't be in that city that the state can't pay more than that, that these, all of us, or I don't know whether or not I'm members of various institutions, that in the boards of directors, various commissions can't have more income than 500 to 800 marks, which nobody has, but they all have more, because that's settled by the rules. So I mentioned here, is that our minister also has at the Department of Direct Taxation, which is our institution, 2,400 marks, on the Fiscal Council 1,500 marks. These receipts are collected, and no one knows about them, and so are some anonymous people who don't even know the public, through such institutions. We need to bring, there's no compensation in such institutions, on the board of directors, there's no. You see, we are the last in the world among the 20 poorest states. And how much of these obligations we have and the fees we pay for the supervisory and management boards, so we should solve the White World crisis by now, not the BiH crisis. I don't think any of us are on some of the House of Representatives lists in the parliamentary elections due to pay. I believe it's not, I believe it's not, because it's going to have a salary or... But I'm saying, we don't just have to do this to ourselves, but we need to speak in public for the public. Let's just say, I was one of the opportunities in Zenica with my colleagues. The Cantonal Assembly in Zenica, as the prime minister told me, there's no one there to pay for it. Niko's professional, nobody. There are all cobwebs with average canton, average canton receipts, 720-740 marks and 100 marks per session. Niko of the MPs come out a thousand marks. That's fine, while in Tuzla we have 3,500 marks, while in the Unskosan canton we have, I don't know, 3,500 thousand, while in my Western Herzegovina, there are 2,000 receipts... What are we talking about? And now we here, as many as we are, 42 and them there in the House of Peoples, and now we're going to cut something down on us, to save us at the level of the BiH state. Here's my advice - a thousand cars on bid. I'll buy one at the highest price. Whatever the highest price I'm going to buy, here's to free up, to fill this budget of the BiH state, and I don't think we're going to do it this way. Well done, your idea, your idea is great, you need to work this out. We don't need to bring the law to worry, let the amendments be passed, but I say there are, here and for all of us, and for the sake of the public, there are a lot of ways we can save. I guarantee one household or one in the BiH budget that we can save 100 million marks at year-on-year level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20553	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20554	Here, I was thinking a little bit later, but I'd just like to remind you of a few things, thereby replicating some colleagues. It's about the Law of Payments in Joint Institutions. So you'll never wait here to talk about the captain's salaries, you can talk but you can't decide about the captain's salaries in entities. So you can talk, but you can't decide. There is no need to discuss this because we are talking about this law, because there is no need, we know that, one of our colleagues said it, it seems to me Mr Džaferović, that this Parliament cannot make that kind of decision and it is quite clear. But, of course, in the story of this, we can touch ourselves. And since there's a lot of demagogy and hypocrisy about this, since we're already touching everything and everything. Mr. Živković made a problem because he did something that no one else has ever proposed. And suddenly, a lot of people find themselves in trouble, telling a story in front of cameras, out of this room, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, suddenly found themselves in front of the choice that a man proposed the Law and brought a lot of people into trouble, how to get out now and explain why I didn't suggest it either this or that, or why I didn't do it. If I can't influence others why I'm not in my own game or I don't know, alike. Do you know how many leaders have higher salaries than the presidents of the entity and members of the presidency and belong to the political parties in which we are all? We don't ask them at the Bureau meetings, hello, can we agree that people aren't making fun of me there, where you get more pay than a member of the presidency. Eh, we can't. They've got people for six grand and we keep our mouths shut about it. But, you know, that's where we're going because it's important for these. That's why I wanted to say that, to make sure that Mr. Živković proposed the Law after all. Because if you want a demagogue, suggest a resolution, a commission, this, like this. Now the problem is that man said here's the law, of course he can't stop us from changing it, that the amendments, but the law is right here. And my suggestion to my colleague Jurišić, he said good things, and he suggested everything that others should do, but he didn't say anything about what he would do. So you could say to your Jurišić, "Here I give up that and that, so I suggest that you give up that and that." Only if you didn't think the car would leave it to you. Or if some don't fear for the next term, so today they're saying they don't get paid, because they think they're gonna keep it in their next term, so I don't know how to do it anyway, you know. When you add it all together, there's too much hypocrisy and demagogy. Because when someone who owns something, whoever decides it today, don't suggest that they make a voluntary decision. Let's get this done by law, let's get this done by law. That demagogy, let you disown it, but it belongs to it, and leave it at will. You give up today one, this one says no tomorrow, it belongs to me by law, and the story ends. That's why you should have said it - I'm giving it up and I'm suggesting it to you. And you've got something to give up, like all of us. So we need to break up a little bit, get back to the story to pass the law. As far as we're concerned, we don't have to leave this room until we adopt it in both readings.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20555	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20556	I'm gonna do a quick replica. We don't need to talk here, I don't even support what the SDP colleagues are saying – we gave up and let it be... I should take you to Karitas right now and say I gave Karitas 2,000 marks, and I did. I told you the chairman, I didn't, I didn't know if, I wasn't even preparing to bring you a list of three students I'm scholarshipd to have three years, 150 darks a month. That's not it. I said what I'd give up. 40 says tomorrow there's no cobwebs, and there's none for me. There's no separate life, there's no life for me. I'll have a thousand marks less right away. Well, we can bring it tomorrow, tomorrow we can bring it, not wait for the law. Here, in that segment you give up. That's tomorrow, which would hit me directly, and no, I don't know, when I'm talking about wages. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20557	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20558	Dear President, dear colleagues. I'm not talking about who gave up or whether or not they would give up, but I'm going to talk about, I'd say, the scale of the problem and whether we as MPs were ready to do something, to create an environment to make our, let's say, receiving less, or to be able to control ourselves, and to increase or to shrink. That is why I will refer to the first principle of the 3rd Mr. Živković, who has made a really great effort, and I fear that all we are saying now is the echo of public pressure, the difficult economic and social security in the country, which says that compensation for persons in office in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office of the holder of office. And that, I think, is the most significant member, or item, call whatever you want, which clearly defines our problem. Our problem is constitutionally defined. We are now going to change and supplement or pass a new law that defacto should lay down rules of conduct for new parliamentarians to be elected in October. Based on what they're about to adopt, I don't see any chance that they'll be able to balance their wages and cut their wages. There's no way. First, the receipts remain the same, and everything else is the story. I do not know what has happened before in the Parliamentary Assembly, but I do know that this position of 2nd Article 9 in the Constitution of BiH, Annex IV of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH has existed since 2005. On the amendment of this Article 2.9 is it said from, here I have the data perhaps from earlier, Mr. Ložančić said earlier, since 2005. So, there have always been amendments to that article, that this article is deleted and that it can be changed in the sense that wages can be reduced, as can be increased. So I have to admit that there was a will and commission, a constitutional committee that in any case approved that member as a regular. So when some of the misunderstandings were made in 2005 and 2008, again this amandman was reactivated, so he came, now he might have come to amandman L. značiti, let me just remind you, at the 29th session of the House of Representatives, held on 14th 05th, at the 18th session of the House of People, held on 17.06.2008, the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH, I have this Official Journal, a messenger. The Constitutional Commission, as the committee responsible, held at the 16th session of 15.06.2012, discussed Amendment I at the BiH Constitution. In addition to some procedural errors, the Commission adopted this Amendment by 4 for, 1 abstention and made one subsequent conclusion. Be careful, the conclusion that it says - that the Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked to refer, as soon as possible, to the parliamentary procedure of Amendment II to the Constitution of BiH, in which Article 9(2) will be deleted. The BiH Constitution, i.e. to make it possible to reduce compensation for persons performing functions in BiH institutions. It's listed from all the files. At the 18th session of the House of Peoples, not to say that the House of Peoples is guilty, that the Council of Ministers is wrong, here lies... the guilty one for all of this. See, at the 18th session of the People's House, held on 22.06.2012, that conclusion was adopted in the same text. At the 26th session, held on 12.11.1012, the Council of Ministers 41 BiH set out Amendment II to the BiH Constitution and concluded that it was addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with a proposal to discuss it under... a legislative procedure. Proposal for an amendment, here we have the signature of Zvonimir Kutleša, was sent in 13.12.2012, address – to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. He's never been to college, and this amandman, which is a key problem, has never been discussed. Let's talk fair -- there's no political will to cut wages. Is it fair that we now decide on the salaries of representatives to be elected or parliamentarians in October 2014? I don't think that's right. Therefore, I ask you that every initiative that will be, if anything else fair and pure, I will support it. But we need to address the problem and to us here Parliamentarians who sit here, who don't know this chronology or don't want to know, where it's clear, of course I'm not an expert on right, but this is a chronology that tells us where the problem is. ...will only be rid of the moment when this amendment... I don't understand... Everything else is just a rhetoric that, in my opinion, only uses for day-to-day politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20559	Thank you. I'm gonna need a replica. Comrade Kabilu, you didn't continue what happened after that. That you listened when I spoke about it, and when I promised to propose the law, there was still a procedure. The Constitutional Law Commission of the House of Representatives found that there was no need to put itself back to the vote because it was about the same-named amendment. Here, let me be corrected by the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission and all that matters is on the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples. So don't say there's a problem here because that's not true. You have not continued your dialogue and have not continued the chronology of events to say that the Constitutional Commission of this House has finished its work. But also, no one here opens another question, that amendment is literally prescribed by the American Constitution. Has anyone asked the American Embassy – when in America, after so many years of putting that amendment into your Constitution, you will go with amendments and additions to that amendment. And let's ask them -- and why don't you ever rule out that amendment, why don't you get that amendment out of the American Constitution, etc. So let's hear the US Embassy's opinion on everything in this country probably has an opinion on its amendment as well. Why does no one even mention him standing by the same name in the Constitution of America and why no one opens the question of whether to change him? So I went out to say two things. You haven't finished the chronology of events, it's not a problem in this House, it may be a problem in some other home and in some other heads, and we're going to open a question and what about the same amendment or identical amendment in another constitution and why people don't change it. Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20560	Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I mean, this is a sensitive problem. Here everything that is said is very well heard and followed, because it is a sensitive problem and important. I'd ask my colleagues and colleagues when they say they speak precisely. We just heard Mr. Kabil talking about the Constitutional Commission, and I tried to recognize, so I said there was a problem here. I realized, while 42 he discussed it, that it refers to the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. But I couldn't believe that's what I asked. So, I remember the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples did it. I'm just asking to say, what Mr. Kabil was saying is about the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples, it's not about the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, because I couldn't see it anywhere, because I know what she's been doing in the last 7, 8 years, the Constitutional Commission of this House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has completed the procedure under this amendment. The rest is to complete the procedure of the House of Peoples. I will not enter into what the House of Peoples is doing, but there can be no problem in adopting this amendment the fact that we, after considering the Commission and the House of that Amendment, adopted the second Amendment under number I concerning Brcko. Well, this should now be amandman II.. That shouldn't be a problem. That's a technical question. This House has essentially stated what it is, when it comes to this Amendment, so when it comes to the ban on wage cuts. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20561	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20562	Well, here, I would simply rephrase, it is possible that I have made some, let me say a technical error in data delivery because this amendment has been spoken of since ninety-one, but here I just want to quote, and I have this document here, and it is a document received from the General Secretariat in the signature of Mr Zvonimir Kutleša, the Parlametary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, subject – Amendment II to the Constitution of BiH: the Council of Ministers at the 26th session, held on 12.11.2012, established Amendment II to the BiH Constitution, and concluded that the same is being addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with a proposal to consider under the fundamental legislative procedure. So, that is, I refer to this document, as much as it is, as it is regulated and whether it is even regulated, I accept it with restraint, but I believe that one key amendment that would remove these today's dilemmas and problems, that we are now deciding on the fate of the MPs who will be in October,... solved, I think we should also be participating in the galaxy of the problem that lies in BiH. It's my basic thing, only it's my basic, I'd say, grudge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20563	Thank you. Afterwards, he discussed the College and said that it was not the session but the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission has given an interpretation that it should not go to the session, that we have done so, that this has been a technical change and then the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has concluded – that they are not discussing the amendment for three months. I'm talking about your chronology of events having a few more items. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20564	Very briefly, we go to the American Constitution and, so I think we should go back to this law and think, too, I don't think there's any obstacle for him to come into force right away for two, three reasons. First, what Mr. Džaferović was talking about, so some interpretations, I suppose, of what he called for, interpretations of the Constitution, etc. It stands when it comes to the economic difficult situation and the set of austerity measures, etc. This should not be considered a classic wage reduction. But also another argument, we have a precedent, so the receipts in this term have been reduced to the MPs. So let's see if we're up for a cut or not. I said a little bit – we don't have time late, we don't have time in a rational way to discuss both the system and this, what, the relationship, now whether or not we want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20565	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club believes that this Law, proposed by Mr Živković, is a very positive political fact in the current reality of BiH, because it shows high sensitivity to the legitimate demands of citizens to reduce social differences, saves in public consumption and create greater potential to speed up economic development. This move tells us that protests in BiH are an isolated phenomenon that connects only to several cantons and that in the Federation of BiH falls into the water, it is a phenomenon.../a briefly interrupted video/... the reality of the whole of BiH and we all must, of course, show exceptional sensitivity. Mr. Živković manifested this through this Law, and we must show seriousness and sensitivity through the debate, that is, the contribution to making this Law more appropriate and more appropriate. I think this law is starting to create a new policy, a public policy, and I point out that we are not questioning our own, our own authority, our own capacity to create public policies through a law that will apply for a future period. It is not any personal relationship with people who will come to Parliament, it is a matter of a public policy and we need to make clear whether we are for this public policy or not. So we practically see here and we have an opportunity to talk about changing the attractiveness of political business. Political business is becoming more realistic than the business sector, compared to the real sector, rewarding in political business must be linked to real economic opportunities. We have broad social implications of the existing situation, it should change positively, which is that our graduate experts, that our creative people find opportunities and perspectives in the business sector, and not that it is their dream to get involved in any form in public administration and that there is their future. It is a reflection of an unhealthy society, it should be changed and in that sense we see this Law too. We want at the SDP Club to, therefore, make sure that these are new public policies, to indicate how much we have the potential to continue our persistent work to streamline public spending in the BiH institutions domain. In the area of salary fees, for the fees of others from working relationships, for the use of cars, for the use of mobiles and travel expenses is allocated according to the 2014 budget, 664 million marks. We save 5% that in the context of new social aspirations shouldn't be a big problem, that's 33 million marks. There are gentlemen from the SDA, who have been against this budget, the means for uniforms of the Directorate for indirect taxation, the means for other interventions that 44 provide for the essential real development of BiH institutions on the path of European integration, Euro-Atlantic integration, and that is what is opening up behind this as a new policy, as a new approach that many of our shortsightedness will show in the right sense. At the end of the SDP Club, we insist that we demonstrate the credibility of our own, that what is proposed by the Law is confirmed immediately, which is that on a collective or on an individual basis, we approach a declaration of our own about giving up certain categories of income that, in today's conditions, have no social justification. We're going to have more dignity, we're going to have more credibility in proposing these things. This would also cause stories of whether to apply this Law immediately or through the new mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly to lose their foundation. So, I want to say that as a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, I have been restrained in connection with this Law, but we have subsequently discussed and found that amendments can be achieved by those objectives that we have regarding this Law and we will support it with the fact that in the amendment phase we will ensure that these, these thoughts, are kind of translated into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20567	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20568	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20569	Guys, let's talk to each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20570	So I have to say that I'm the one who has at least some credibility to talk about these things because I've been warning back two, three years about some things that involve public spending. And this is a good suggestion, and I accept it, all things begin with the first step. But what bothers me? I have a problem with this much public space hypocrisis, which bothers me. When I hear the praises, when I hear stories about cars, big spending, phones, etc., and all of which is why we had the opportunity to reduce, pass the law and put things under some principles of order and discipline. However, I must say that there was no political will in this House to decide on these steps, there was no serious approach at all and therefore I say that this is a hypocrisis. So now that the critical charge has swept up this public space then we're starting, we're getting closer to the election, here's what we're going to try to do, here's what we're going to do, so let's say we get their eyes dirty and at least try something, something to do. So for me, this thing that's good, because something's done, it should be complete to be acceptable. And that's just a few things I'm going to say, it's a shame that executive power, individuals have over 11, 12 thousand marks of pay. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing and for me that I've been sitting here for the fourth year, but I've been trying, I couldn't achieve anything about it. It's a shame that executives have a thousand marks a month for phones, it's a shame that they have Audi A8 cars, winter jeeps. So, it's terrible, it doesn't have, it doesn't have American, it's inconceivable to America. Please, I'm listening in Slovenia these days, so only the Prime Minister can have a car of three thousand cc's, so the power of three thousand cc's, the rest of them are driving cars of 45, three, four, five, six years, and that's French these, so lower cubes, the cheapest cars. And what we have in our space, and I'm talking about the whole space, I'm not talking about joint institutions. Joint institutions I see irritated many, common institutions after two entities that is a unique institution from both entities. I don't know what's incomprehensible about it, so by the way, I'll say it. Therefore, I would be in a good mood to go along with this other changes, so to other restrictions, to limit the possibilities and behaviour of the executive authority as it wishes. In a normative and legal sense, this Parliament has these opportunities and it has, I will be boring again, this Parliament has adopted the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of the factual executive authority on two occasions, unanimously. Nothing's been done. Who's bothering you? So, I don't blame the chairman and vice-president, etc., but it seems to me that some people in the Council of Ministers who make hats have power. And there's people here just to execute, so they're making decisions, so they're almost, like, almost out of options. So, I think if you go with this that you should go with other things, because it would be a serious approach, a systematic approach, not a partial one-sided approach which, by the way, is legally problematic, is legally problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20571	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinovići. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20572	To be honest, it is becoming exhausting to explain to people who have been in Parliament for so long, and especially to those who are legal professions, that there are no common institutions. We can call it whatever we want in the hallway, although I don't see a reason to call it in the hallway any other way than what it says in the Constitution. So there are no joint institutions, there are BiH institutions. I'm particularly embarrassed that I have to explain to the professor what legal profession is, is, and is a member of the Constitutional Commission, but in the end, if that's not clear, at least when we're talking about this law, it's enough to read just the title of this Law that your colleague from the club is proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20573	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, or the reply to the line, is it? Come on, Professor.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20574	...in this country among the first to deal with the Dayton Agreement and I'm still working today, I've reactivated to deal with it. You also have in the Constitution to mention joint institutions, but you have multiple translations, some do not mention joint institutions, and some translations mention joint institutions. And you would be instructed, I don't know what you are by your profession, to take literature from people who deal with this problem from Sarajevo, very well-known professors who also use joint institutions. So the second time you do this, think about it before you answer, because it shows your ignorance in this area. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20575	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20576	You see, Professor, I appreciate you as a longtime professor and I always take care of what you're saying and how you're talking, but it looks like you're gonna have to take some books again and learn from them a little bit more about this problem you're talking about right now. And I especially recommend that you take the text of the BiH Constitution in English, if you have translation disputes, so if you find a name there, for BiH institutions to stand the term of the joint institution, then I will apologize to you for this discussion. You will not find this anywhere in the original version of the text, and you cannot find it because these institutions are not joint institutions, they are not created by entities, nor the Brcko District these are the original BiH institutions that function as the original, original institutions of the BiH state and BiH is established so that they have a state level of government that is original, of course they have other levels of government, and other levels of government do not make agreements and do not form common state institutions, they are original under the Constitution. And that's what Professor Dejton is all about. If you're referring to Dayton, then you need to know this and you need to publicize as a professor to talk about this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20577	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20578	Dear Professor, you can do whatever you want, including Dejtonom in your spare time, but Dejton can't change in your spare time, or you can't change the BiH Constitution, it only changes in the BiH Parliament in a very clearly prescribed manner. And what you're demonstrating today actually shows us that you're neither the first nor the last professor to fail an exam in an area he considers himself an expert.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20579	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20580	First, let me try to answer. I'm not happy to enter these polemics especially with those I don't think I'm going to be a little rude here, that my level is in this area, and that's why I'm reluctant to enter the polemics. I think, Mr. Magazinović, that you lack the alphabet in this area and don't imagine some things you should know. You don't know anything about it I have to tell you, now I'm simple, a little awkward, and I'm not gonna argue with you about that thing. Since I appreciate my colleague Džaferović as a lawyer of practitioners, therefore, we could discuss very much the original jurisdiction, does BiH have the original powers when 47 entities agree to transfer some jurisdiction? Is this the original jurisdiction of the BiH state? Will you answer that for me? So, you're wrong, you're wrong, read a little bit about federal states, and who knows this has to read a lot about federal states, and here you always use unitary state terminology. If Serbia has solved this in one way, Croatia, these are unitary states, this is about federal states, a federal state that has very different principles than the unitary state. So there's a fundamental problem, and we have to admit it one day, and we need to talk seriously about these things. Let's not be fooled by people who think it's like that, and it's not because the letter of the Constitution says something different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20581	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20582	Well, no, Mr. Kunić, you have no reason to defend yourself and to justify yourself here, here we are, your colleagues, and above all Magazinović, who is with you in the congregation majority, convinced us to use the term common institution. The insertion in this way, attacks in this way to mention the concept of a common institution, and you all understand what it's all about, none of you are here to understand what the common institutions mean and what they're talking about just makes us think that we're using that term constantly from now on. And I suggest to you, Mr. Živković, that you change in your proposal and put in joint institutions as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20583	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20584	Thank you. Before the discussion, I did not sign up for the replica, I will immediately replicate the respected counterpart Džafeorivić, who spoke here about the only original competences of BiH institutions. Col. Džaferović, Article 3. Bet 5. The BiH Constitution says, additional powers -- BiH will take over the competencies for other issues the entities agree on. So we formed the Directorate for indirect taxation, by agreement of the entity. And now I'm going back to the law. The SDS did not participate, nor voted for the law when wages were once increased, and as I recall, the SDP was then against the law. And we support wage cuts and we expect, because I can't believe that there are no agreements here within the parties, that it's impossible to adopt an amendment in the House of Peoples, the one that stands and changes, we make amendments and additions to the Law of Salaries and Refunds. Why is that amendment in drawers? Is it possible that you can't if HDZ here supports this proposal of yours, if, if, do you, do you have support within your party, who is the third member of the College from, here and the SDA supports, why this amendment to the House of Peoples doesn't get well out of the drawer. Here tomorrow I can hold a session and have the amendment adopted. That's one thing. 48 The second thing, and without the adoption of that amendment already reduced salaries, I would, I would not believe at all that any of the forty-two of these colleagues, or anyone in the House of Peoples from our colleagues, or one of the ministers would be able to sue BiH and start an appeal and ask for that pay gap. Let's see it, let's see that if we change the Law of Payments and Receipts, cut the odds, see who's gonna have a face here to file a lawsuit and tell me it's an unconstitutionally reduced salary. All other than the amendment of the Law on Salaries and Refunds is a desolate demagogy and populism. I'm sorry, dear colleague Živković, I assume this was written to you by someone, and I was distracted by this Law by your colleagues, so why didn't you at least read it before? If I were you, that associate who wrote this to you, I'd fire the same second. Except for what you say and you corrected it in your discussion, in Article 3(2). – the height of the base, so that it should, the basic salary, but it says here – the height of the base is determined by multiplying the coefficient. That's for MPs 3.1 times the average salary, so that's about 2,600 marks. And then it's said, and the basis is now, somewhere I think about 80% of the average salary, in the next attitude it's said -- basically, I don't know now whether, since you're not putting anywhere beyond the force of the provisions of the Law on Salaries and Receipts, does that mean that this is actually the base of 2,600 at all? Then the following article adds to this base the amount that belongs to each employee according to the applicable Payments and Refunds Act. Well, we get our net wages, our rewards, our fees, and everything else we get under the Payments Act, these are our total receipts. So, you're on this 2,600 on what it says, maybe it's your intention, and it probably was something else, but you wrote this and you wrote what it says here, and by this anyone who's been counting wages here has a lot of economists, there's an increase in salary. Here it was supposed to write, so – on the basic salary is added an extra on the salary of the prize and compensation that each employee belongs to under the Law of Salaries and Rewards. You have to get rid of the basic salary, which is guaranteed by the Law on Salaries and Receipts, especially since no provision of the Law on Salaries and Refunds has been put off the power to do so, except, and you have noticed yourself that it is wrong and that these parts are missing when the Law enters into force. I also can't believe I found it here on my own in an explanation, he says -- 42% of the budget will be saved in the budget. So they do not pay MPs, members of the presidency, delegates, ministers and deputy half of BiH's budget. So, someone who wrote to you, Mr. Živković, you shouldn't have put your signature on this before you read it carefully, because I don't know, we don't have a problem, here's an amendment we're going to support them all, but I think the most honest thing we do is release populism and demagogy until we change the Law on wages and fees. We're just being honest, here's the Council of Ministers within 15 days, let's get us a bill on salaries and fees, cut the odds, here's what we can do, put in charge of our Finance and Budget Commission, and we've solved the problem. If anyone has the nerve to sue the state, let's see who's gonna sue her.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20585	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I had applied earlier so I gave up, so here I went again and again, and I signed up for what I said, although I put my position and attitude on the Finance and Budget Commission, and here I said that we support this Law in the first reading. He has, in essence, his moral strength which is very important at this point, and that, I pointed out then, through the amendment phase, in another reading through the amendment phase, we're going to try to fix some of the things that we think should be an integral part of this legislative project. Now, I'm telling you, he's got moral strength, so I think we should have done this 49 things a long time ago. And on the other hand, I thanked the Proposer at the Finance and Budget Commission for having such a proposal at this point, which we can further develop and that in the end we would only have a result, and that morality is reflected in why they have not done so before. Well, I didn't want to replicate Mr. Domazette before, but that 33 million, or less then 17 million, savings calculated in the fee reduction, and I don't know the travel expenses, the representations, etc., was in our proposal to save about 17 million, so that exactly what you were talking about earlier, Mr. Domazet, was planned in the 2014 budget and those fire planes, some equipment for the Armed Forces, etc. So, we could have acted in this direction recently, I mean, react in this direction, and maybe we could have planned through the 2014 budget this is what we're talking about today. On that side, I would not criticise Mr. Živković's proposal, the proponent of this legal solution, but here I would ask him to be in some way unanimous through this amendment phase. We have talked about this technical part of the problem and the Commission, that it has also been seen that some things are not technically well solved, so it can be interpreted in even one radical way, here is how it has been interpreted by the MPs of the SDS. You have already accepted this on the Commission, and here, in an explanation today in Parliament, has highlighted this as a perceived problem. What we would still suggest, which I would suggest, means that it wouldn't be a demagogy about which some MPs spend their words, let's do this until we legally settle this, let's do both, let's speed up the adoption of this law, let's tell the Administrative Commission what we need to do there in terms of reducing the pausals, etc. So we can do it both ways, not denying each other, if we're realistically and honestly getting into this story. Here, we from the U.S.A. want to talk this way, and the president of the Club will propose to the Administrative Commission either already has or has given one initiative that goes this way. I pray, once again, we may seriously consider that this legislative project, once we have it through the amendments, we are still implementing it in this term of office. And that would be moral. We can at the Constitutional Commission and the House of Peoples through our political representatives, leaders, end this story that the amendment to the Constitution in this article is over and that what the House of Representatives has done is done by them. So here, and let's wait with this project for a day or a day or a time period until they're done, so that we can eliminate this Article 1 item and take that moment down, too. Demagogy or politicization, as someone here spoke. I'm not going to say that this is neither demagogy nor politicization, this is, in my opinion, an honest proposal that we should accept and realize and find a modus. We need to find a way to pass this along, as drago says, to this mayor of the municipality. We need to find that modusa. The conscience of people at lower levels, to look up to us, I think that, as it has been so far, it says that there will be no such thing as a different way of doing... The issue of jurisdiction of the original, transferred, here we have solved it so far through these framework laws, so perhaps even here in this section to intervene in one such way. Let's make it some other legal project. But here, let's see, in order to get into this story that, from top to bottom, we here in the state parliament with this kind of legal project and with this idea, let's put these things down, so that tomorrow doesn't happen to us that a real member of the presidency has, there's no big pay as planned here. And here the same thing that I disagree with, here in Article 3, it seems to me that Article 4, is it, however, MPs choose both the chairman of the Council of Ministers and their deputy. So, they must have, after members of the Presidency, there are colleagues, there are MPs, and then all that is part of the executive government, because we or the executive government, the legislative authority chooses those people down there, not to say that they have far more opportunities in their functioning to spend state money through the use of cars, phones, etc. So, in that part of the hierarchy, I think this detail should be made up, and we'll certainly work in that direction. And what I would like to do, but here's how we're going to regulate it through the amendments, it's very important that this... here's someone calling it savings, where do we direct these funds? We have to do it on some, we have to define it. I'm afraid of that story, when 50 of us are making a budget or when they're making a budget for 2015, then there's no talking about the entity's duties, about the entity's needs to solve social cases, and then we're not going to damage the state's budget anymore because we're not going to direct it to the state institutions that need it, we're going to give it to the entities, and we're witnessing that one of the reasons for spending funds in the administration sector has just been in entities, because they're hiring people. I don't have one here specifically, I used to take out that data, so we basically used the IMF's responsibilities for these things, etc. Here are some additional thoughts regarding what my colleague Džaferović was saying, and we will try through the amendment phase to define ourselves in a textual sense according to this and ask the promoter to accept our advances. And here's another thank you for this one proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20587	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20588	Here, fellow Sokolović, let me rephrase. He's a minor, but the essence remains the same, if I understand him correctly. He said the matter of chief salary wouldn't be in this law, but it would be in someone else's. It's not a neck. It's a neck. It can't be done in this place, and we agreed to do it today, by passing the law. He can talk, direct, and I don't know anything like that. But why don't we try, if we've already said today to stop hypocrisy and demagogy, why don't we try another way? These political parties, which are located in this House, constitute power throughout BiH and cannot be kidnapped by a single chief under their hat. So what's the problem? People here are afraid, less afraid of prison than getting kicked out of a party. People prefer to be punished with any other punishment than God Bog a party sentence. And what's the problem at the U.S. Presidency to call the Chief of Staff and say, "Sir, we've decided." He'd be running right now, just asking how much you say. So let's do this mechanism, so if it doesn't work, the same goes for other parties and my game. So now that we're not telling the public that we have these mechanisms, we're not going to use them. In this House, we have proved countless times that party interests are stronger than state interests. I guess we proved it. We don't have to repeat it. And we have this mechanism, we don't want to use it. And then we can provide it that way, and you don't have to convince anyone. It's such a discipline within the party that it's unspeakable. And we don't need to convince ourselves then, and we'll have that situation if we'd like to be honest. Well, if we'd like to take a look around, of course, but then we have a problem with constitutional jurisdiction, and I have to tell you, it's not like we can't talk about it here and they're staying. Let's try this other mechanism and let's see. And another thing, we from SNSD will never agree to promote extra-constitutional action here, so that's just it on the payroll. Any violation of the Constitution in the BiH Parliament is dangerous. Dangerous, and dangerous calling. Because I'm asking you, what do we need to break the Constitution? What's the problem with the People's House meeting like we met and ended this story. In the House of Peoples were replaced by the chairmanship of all political parties, they had in their drawer a provision on amending the Constitution. They had that provision and they could put it whenever they wanted. They didn't want to. Here's why they didn't want me to get into it. And they won't do it, we need to break the Constitution now, no matter what it may have been, but I can't accept a call for that. Today's violation of the Constitution on salaries, tomorrow at Srebrenica, the day after tomorrow at Dayton. Where's the end? There's no end. I remember when former RS Prime Minister Mr Ivanić suggested something similar when it came to police and he wouldn't suspect it. The principle is like a balloon. In one place when it's pierced, it's all gone. That's why there's no reason for extra-constitutional action on any matter. This can be done right away, passed the law, and it can be stopped. It's all in our hands. If we don't, then let's get out of the Constitution, let's get out of the law, let's go to the resolution, let's go to the demagogue and whatever. There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20589	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20590	I'd like to replicate my fellow Kalabić, because here we are the opposition. For three years, we've been listening to jokes, jokes, and at least there's been silence about the economy. You have to admit that. Now that everything has come to nothing, you are now the saviors, you are showing the way, the way, the direction that it takes these 42 MPs to cut wages, to reduce all privileges. It's not a question. We are for that. Here, we'll support it. But that's not the problem, the problem is that the masses in BiH, both in the Federation and in the RS, have problems, people cannot live. Who in these entities, who in those parts rules? It's this very parliamentary majority that's here. SDP... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, please, it's true, I can tell you about those cantons where the biggest crisis is, holding the SDP. The Konjuh was led by the SDP with the help of the president and the SBB party. It's a disaster. Unfortunately, let's let it go. The second thing, Tuzlaska mlekara, SDP Chief Imamović, let him go out, DITA, Chief Imamović, privatisation, all of them run those processes. After all, we had the opportunity to hear Dr Domazet, who also said, please, who said that practically now they have solutions and that only this Parliament can solve, but entirely at BiH level. I agree that entity levels will be difficult for us to regulate this amendment to the law, but I believe that responsibility should take over parliamentary majority, that is, this parliamentary majority which is the key to the problem, both in the Federation and in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20592	Thank you. Next up for the replica, dear colleague Salko sokolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20593	Just one sentence. I understood what Mr. Kalabić was talking about, I just don't know if he understood it well. So I wasn't talking about breaking the Constitution, I said let's wait in phase two until it changes. Then we only have the same principle, if we can tell the commissioners to cut the salary we can and tell our colleagues to finish that story. Nothing more. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20594	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20595	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be brief. We were elected by the citizens and of course we must share the fate of the citizens. Now from this, the previous discussions show all our weight of our problems, the complexity of the system, the indeterminateness and the situation we're in. Obviously, we can't change anything without quality reforms in this country, so only then can we go back to the right standards that must be. With all due respect to both the promoters and all these debaters here, I am still expressing my view that this is a pre-election time and that he wants to get close to voters, to the masses in some way, to hear what they want to hear, and that we want to be populist in one way to come for cheap money to the big part that will come in the elections. So inherit the next term of office from what may seem. If we're going to stick to that people's amount of money, then I suggest we approach each other's pay resolution concept, which is to set our goals and determine our incomes based on the realization of these goals. Like what? Can this be a goal that can be linked to the GDP, so if we plan to grow 3%, then pay stays at the same level, if we reduce it by 2%, then it's a 20% reduction, or some other ratio as agreed, or we can tie it to the process of reform on the European path, so if we successfully implement it in the planning period, let's say in a year, then we can also tie the wages. I think it's only right and that only then will there be expressions, what my colleague was saying is who the parliamentary majority is, and then we would argue that we have a parliamentary majority at all levels the same that will be able to implement policies, and we wouldn't be in a position to have another parliamentary majority behind each corner, one other substitute, and we're sitting where we are, and we're going to be here for a long time where we are, if we work as we do so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20596	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20597	Here, for the first time, we heard that someone mentioned and connected our work to the results. However, I think that colleague Vrankić linked it to... which is difficult to measure, or bring into context, it will immediately be because we are in charge of this, we are in charge of what we do not influence, as far as we do not influence. Then it might be better to modify your proposal a little bit so you can tie it to this Parliament in a simpler way, and on the number of sessions, and on the number of laws, etc. And then I'm afraid we'd come almost to a minimum in this term so that these salaries that are proposed here would be extremely high. Thank you very much. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20598	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm being warned by my colleague. I'll be brief. Don't worry, I'll be Lazo. So, all those who haven't reported to talk about this agenda point are taking a lot of risks. And that's, the thieves they just spent all day talking about and won't cut the pay, first thing. I can't influence how long the agenda's gonna be because we adopted it, but there could have been three points today, tops. We first absorbed, this military property thing, that's what the public like, should have been this proposal for Mr. Živković's law and this next resolution on the investigation of the origin of the property. Because that's what the media is interested in. Nothing else, we can stay for three days, nothing at all. Here's the BH TV guys, they had their pets, so they recorded, and the ones who didn't care went away. They don't care. And they're shooting from above, I'm sorry. Well, then, if I were to turn to you, but it wouldn't be cultural because of the chairman I respect. Now this is really amazing. I'm not Mr. Živković's lawyer, but if he hadn't read the Law he proposed, if this were a religious object, I would have crossed eight times now, he wouldn't have done it three times. And since Parliament is not doing it because I respect dignity and know where religion is exhibited and where politics is conducted. But for eight years, I've been with Mr. Živković, and the man has been mad at me and I've been mad at him sometimes because he's been chasing me like Bog's fog. He says, man, read it, look at this, what it is, look at that. And he said to me what I would read, and that he suggested a law which he had not read. This isn't for Ripley either. Second, or third or fourth, it doesn't matter, my colleague Pandurević, I won't be running a personal controversy with you. I'm not watching your TV, but someone convinced me what you were saying last night and you just left out that main part. If I make a mistake, since I don't watch your TV, I'll apologize at the next session, apologize in front of everyone. You said this proposal was a populist and pre-election law because the SNSD is afraid of losing the election, but the SNSD won't lose anything because it will steal it from the Public Procurement Act. That sentence or that part you didn't mention today in the exhibit, which is. But I now ask you a personal question, personally to you – why are you not correct towards the SNSD? The SNSD is 8 MPs, you from SDS 4 and we from that brotherly love give you 2 presidents commissions, and we take one. Well, as long as he was your minister, we were the best party, when he was removed, we're no good to anyone. So you take a separate life, you have the right, so four times to charge the costs to go home, that's your problem when you go home and I don't want to get involved in private things, don't Bog, but you personally hire a driver, don't use congregation drivers, bring in someone who doesn't matter, mostly some SDS. How much does this Parliament cost and how much are its receipts and how much are they increased compared to all my benefits and I don't have any? I don't have anything but pay. Has the general category of all in BiH passed? Did he exist in the former Yugoslavia? Remove every worker in the production, in the administration past work I give up immediately. There is somewhere in the 2009 stenogram I suggested that he pay everyone in the institutions, then I called them together, if someone would be easier and better here is an institution at BiH level, which is now a problem, now I need to look for what level it is, whether, I didn't say the BiH institution, I suggested that there be 100 marks of salary and everyone declared me crazy, that I was crazy. It's not how this came. 54 Furthermore, how ridiculous the story is that we, as the next call of Parliament and the elected officials, determine how much wages there will be. Whoever ordered me that every six months 30, 50 years ago, I have to pull out a birth certificate that's worth six months, and I've been born once I can't get 100 times. Am I going to look for those people who brought into that law a long time ago? I had a hundred laws passed before me, too. What is the problem now that we pass this law that will apply to those chosen? And what Professor Domazet said is to be kidnapped for a place because it's better here, a higher salary or as a professor of the Kabil that says, and who exactly doesn't receive a salary from Parliament but as a top expert receives a salary there. Well, this isn't my promotion. So that my colleague Magazinović doesn't mind how I keep pointing out that I won't be a candidate, I will now. But I'm the only MP... (?) the SALCO microphone is not turned Slavko- Well, I am, but I'm the only MP here, so I don't insult you, who hasn't opened the register door in three years. The only one. I didn't even travel to Travnik. Now I'm supposed to tell my boss Živković - whatever you don't send me abroad, man, so I can see the white world too? But that's not what my colleague Pandurević is gonna say, but on their television last night, she said what one part of it said here and what I really can't figure out. I've never estimated how much anyone here knows, who's finished school, whether he's read the materials, who he's advocated, what political option he protects. But the chairman of Parliament, which is the longest here of us, which is two mandates full of four years, one term of 2 years, to say that he has proposed a law that has no idea what he wrote there and read. This is what I have to end up with, because then I'd go into that variant if I didn't know anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20601	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20602	I thank the Honorable President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, they are gone, distinguished guests. This is another one in a series of proposals that would be the smartest thing not to discuss. But he's good because he's produced a very vivid and contentious debate and it's hard to resist temptation and not join it. Because then it turns out that you either accept what others have said or for some mysterious reason keep quiet so you don't accidentally discover some big secret that only you know. If we were to make a decision right now to cancel, cancel the salary, the net salary of all MPs, the envoys, to put an end to the cobwebs and put an end to the hot meal, that's what I know by heart, we would save this country 3,400,000 marks. It's an effect, isn't it? When you approach something serious then seriously deal with it and then first give up something you don't need in saving, each of us, family, or when he manages his own resources, evaluates what he doesn't need, and then on crisis occasions, as they are now apparently, this one gives up what he doesn't need. As far as I know at this time in BiH, there is only an intensive debate on how to save at the BiH Parliament, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, okay, I have no objection, under different excuses. But I conclude... to this previous what I said, that these institutions are the least needed in this country. And I stand for it, if such an assessment is 55 guesses for this kind of debate, then we end all of those institutions, cancel the salaries, cancel everything, and end many more that we certainly don't need, and cost a tremendous amount of money. We stand out almost 400 million KM for defense in this country, not 3 million, 400 million. Do any of you here know what the Armed Forces of BiH are doing at this time, what defensive task, what security tasks are being carried out, which are being carried out at all? But we know it costs us, we know it in the budget, it costs us almost 400 million KM. Let's open up a discussion about this. Don't throw fog at people, don't throw dust in their eyes. We have debated here dozens of times that there are institutions that haven't done anything in office, nothing literally. It is, many of us don't even know that they exist, but they cost a lot more than this amount that we would secure if we, here's a decision to say, not to cut 10, 20, 30, 50%, bid it, but to cut it, completely erase those purposes, as an item, as a cost, just to know what our commitment is. I would say, if I could, I would propose a constitutional amendment, where it says that BiH consists of the RS and the Federation of BiH, to stand there by the RS and then put 10 cantons in the Federation instead of the Federation. I'd delete the Federation that costs us 2 billion KM. Someone said cantons in crisis, of course they're in crisis. Cantons finance health care, cantons finance education, cantons fund the police, and the Federation takes 2 billion. And then they act like it's their father's, so in their pockets they just don't wear and share as much as they want to give. They don't finance health care, they don't finance school, they don't fund the police. I don't know why they're spending 2 billion. Let's open a debate about this, if we're going to be honest with the citizens of this country. And you can imagine if we were to now Tuzlaan Canton or Bog give it to Zeničko-Dobojski, that's what I'm saying to these two that are the two largest cantons, and spatially and by the population, if we were to divide these 2 billion linearly, let them all get the same thing. If they got 200 million there, life would flourish, and life would flourish. If we shut down the Federation today, nothing would feel, nothing would stop working. So, both HNK 200 million and Posavsky 200 million, and Gorazde 200 million. _________(?) And BiH. Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20605	Unfortunately, a distinguished colleague, Beriz, took advantage of both the replicas and the discussion. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20606	I'd try to tell you, colleague Belkić, but I'm afraid I'll make a mistake, so... but I know exactly what you think and what you wanted to say to Mr. Lozančić, but my problem is that I'm getting along with him very well, so I can't take the right to say what you were going to say, and I'm saying it in the discussion. You see, you don't need to, some say populistly, one to demagogue, but that there was a kind of uncivil pressure on this story – yes. When we've been talking here for the last few years, we don't need to fall for some kind of populist thing or some kind of power center or whatever you want. There was a speech earlier when you look at the costs of the BiH Parliament and the costs of other parliaments will come into the situation to see how big it is, but no one will talk about it. No one will talk about it, especially these demagogues from the CCI, they see, it's very interesting how CCI, they run when they mention the Directorate for indirect taxation, they run from the building, they don't want to, or such institutions alike. The CCI will never say that the Serbian parliament has 250 57 MPs and we 42, no, they won't say that. And 250 of them when they spend by brand must be more than us. No, no, that's not what they're gonna say, but good. That's why I said, because it's very interesting, at protests in Tuzla where they're looking for the government of experts, and that's the demand of citizens, and then they ask that their experts work for 300 marks. Now, I'd like to see him as an expert in this country who's for 300 marks, because he says, yes, we've estimated so many of them. Who dares to call himself an expert for 300 marks I'd like to see. And we could talk about how we got into this situation right now. Not by the guilt of the SNSD certainly, we were saying here that this kind of demagogy was leading us but those who got involved because of the pressure were coming here – well, you know, pressured us, so the protests here, there, and I don't know, well, come on, it doesn't matter. I wanted to say something else. By adopting this law or any other law, any other, the atmosphere in society is such that I assume that some law will be passed, there will be a significant reduction in all salaries in BiH institutions, and everyone needs to know that. And all those in favor of this need to publicly tell everyone that they're paying everyone down. And don't try to get that demagogy to the other side. So if payment classes are made, if the law is done by methodology, then that makes sense. For if the street which some listen to, and perhaps rightly, say – cannot be paid to you, we will ask that street if they consider whether the army should have a regression, whether it has the right to a separate life. If the street says so, and I know they'll say they shouldn't, because that street isn't there, they won't. So if we get into that kind of... and that's what my colleague Lozančić was talking about and what we've been trying to do all the time to look at this thing globally, or in general, and then we wouldn't get into the situation that we're going to get rid of this to solve 3 million, because we can only solve 3 million, only. So that's maxed out, 16 days to discuss the worst law to bring, to zero, to one mark. But it keeps thinking that this billion will be forgotten. It won't be forgotten this billion, it won't be safe, and it won't go through with what the SDA says five. Why five? Across the streets of BiH, or the Federation where the protests were held, no one said members of the presidency should have five average salaries. Where did you hear that? Three and less, we listen to the people, three and less. Then it's logical that a member of the Bureau must have some distance from the soldiers, from the employee in, I don't know, the border police, I don't know, it's logical, they won't have the same, they won't have the same. The street says three and less, I haven't heard anywhere five. And we, here we go, and we agree if that's the attitude, here we go. We don't think it's going in the right direction, now I speak for myself, but here, three and less, three average salaries. Whoever you ask on the street, you know what the street is going to say, that they didn't deserve it either, that it's a lot to them, because there's no one else, but that's what we do. There was no expert debate, no serious political debate, but we entered the film. How are we going to get out of it now? Bog help us, but we won't cause any trouble. But no one can avoid sending a message today, ending this story will result in a significant reduction of all salaries in BiH institutions, if it is done in the right way with the methodology in which it has been done so far. If that is the case and if we agree and there is a willingness we will get to that goal, just don't throw the dust that won't come to the order of the agencies that don't do anything, those who intend to save on the Presidency, and that the concession agency, which spends hundreds of thousands of marks and doesn't give up any concessions. How can you say that the Presidency is wasteful and the Agency is profitable. What's the criterion, which is... is if a million marks. So, what's the parameter if we talk about contusion, or let's face it, we're chasing something else. If we're after something else then we can say – people we have that goal, it's not saving. And the mass of diplomatic representations, so the funny diplomatic representations of BiH, that's funny, that's BiH diplomacy, that's wasteful, that's all. Wherever you come to the embassy, the driver looks down on you and says that he has a small salary, that he has little and that he will not, that he finds it funny to drive anyone from BiH on his own time, that he is disfigured there. He knows neither who represents him nor what he does, nor where he is, but he knows his salary is low. You're all witnesses, you've all seen it, and we need to discuss it. Can it be saved here too? You got it. Well, it can't be that in someone's interest it's 58 national not to touch it, but this is a common interest in touching this. It won't pass, it won't pass. If we're committed to saving, for rationality, then we should put it all on the table. SNSD will certainly not be an obstacle, but it will absolutely actively participate, however you will, and in general, both in a partial and demagogue story, because we ourselves are not able to change anything, and we don't want to draw on ourselves anyone's anger that they think we're against anything. Therefore, it is of great importance that Mr. Živković's proposed law, call it whatever you want. Once again, I remind you that others could have done so. A storm to pass the law or anything else, he's here, he's right in front of us. We've passed dozens of laws that apply to the next council. We make the law, it's not a private matter. What's the problem with this law, too, is he's in the line of all other laws. What kind of story is it, or some who think they'll be in the next period of power, or I don't know anything like that, that they're trying not to touch this now. Well, I don't think that's gonna work, no matter what kind of story, because I'm asking what the mark is on the laws that shouldn't be passed. I think we are authorized to pass all the laws, as well as the next assembly of Parliament is authorized to change everything and one law that we have passed. The first day they say, "This is not good for yours." We change that. What's the problem? But, like we wouldn't, we shouldn't do that right now. There is no reason, it is our right to make and they will tell their judgment about our laws, as surely will change dozens of our laws, it is quite logical. And I don't think it drinks water because those who have it as an argument will remain existing. It is important to adopt any law, so with all these criticisms that it is populist, that it is demagogue, that whatever you call it, but it will then be the law and it will have the first real effect on this matter. We're from SNSD on it ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20607	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirza Kuršljugić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20608	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that at the end of this discussion that has also had excursions beyond the topic that we have talked about and come up with... the real problem this Parliament or the next assembly, not this one but all the parliaments, will face. Although the topic is already open, I think it's important that I say a few words. The reduction of public spending is something that will be a condition for the next package to help the EU and it will happen, or as will happen in the cantons next month because there is simply no money for wages. We'll see when any of the other levels of government get into the same situation,...you know that well, we don't have to talk about it. And if this kind of debate went in the direction that we, as the highest legislative authority, realize that BiH really has to do something with it because otherwise there is no longer the possibility of this life on the infusion going on, then I, here I have listened to these other debates with satisfaction, because we always have some excursions that always end up over some constitutional changes. I listened to Mr. Živković twice, when we talked about the salaries in Parliament, when he announced, we are ready to talk about it if we are going to do it comprehensively. I was the last time the discussion was said – yes, we are ready if SNSD wants to go that way we from SDP are ready to go that way. It's not like nothing's been done. There is, there is, if you compare the level of salary at the Federation level, regardless of these two billion, and I fully agree that it should be analysed, these are salaries lower than 59 salaries at the level of BiH institutions, including this Parliament. And we supported it, and I supported this, because if you don't get out of your way, then you really don't have the right to talk about other things. I fully agree that reducing public spending is not just a reduction in wages, I fully agree. And if we are prepared to do so by the end of the term of office, we will also have the opportunity to review the impact, and I am in favour of opening this issue as this mandate. Among other things, I was getting ready to discuss the 20th point, if we get to it today, if there's no chance next time, it's going to be the conditions that will be set for us. I mean, we can pass the mandate, we have another five, six months, but it will be the conditions that will be set. I am very closely following what the new government in Serbia will do. If the next two, three months don't cut public spending all that's been done in the last two years, and the question is, do we have the strength to open that story that's not just a pay story? But it is also moral to finish that part by the end of this term, not in response to what Mr. Kalabić said, to what the street said. Research shows that 70 to 80% of BiH citizens support what the street said under quotes. So I'd rather use the term that this was one voice of the people that if we were smart and we'd listen to it. This is mine, my attempt to help us open the process with this, but we must open the process. And in that context, let me just say it one more time, we're ready from the SDP to continue with the first step, and with the second and all, because someone's going to have to do it in the next year. Or us or some other who come in... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20609	Thank you. Proposer of the Law, distinguished representative Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20610	I'm sorry, I have to. Of course, I thank all those who discussed it. Well-meaning suggestions, of course, I accept, I will unwittingly only quote the great magog of dostojevski who said – if I threw a stone at every dog that barked along the road I would never reach the finish line. When we talk about a few of the misunderstandings that we discussed here, I was still on the Commission to say that it was clear both the title and the first article what was written. If that had to be explained, it was also clear with the other article which explained the concepts of what this was about, and we saw that... the content of the law is in line with the title and the first article. At the same time to all those whom I say, it is not clear how the article was to read. This law will remind you that it is in force, which we have adopted here in Parliament, the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions, too, and it is known to whom this Law refers, and to which levels, etc., etc., so that it is more a philosophical debate than, I think, a legal case. On the other hand, a colleague from the SDA talked about measures, about coefficients. When I was preparing this law, I asked for levels of income from regional countries, from Serbia and Croatia. I received data that in Croatia parliamentary salaries are six times the average salaries in Croatia, that parliamentary salaries in Serbia are four average salaries in Serbia. I thought BiH was behind both Croatia and Serbia and the GDP, and should be paid by me. And therefore the proposed coefficient for the Presidency, as the largest, is 3.3 salaries. Of course, there's no number of things here that 60 stand hidden, and as far as the spiders are concerned, and other things whose jurisdiction is someone else's. We were talking about a pay cut, someone mentioned a regression. My colleagues, not to be that Živković did it alone, although I have the right and I have not done it once, I have prepared an appeal, whether there are nine other stakeholders in this House to submit to the Constitutional Court of BiH an appeal and to see if the Constitution of BiH has been violated by the Law which was adopted in 2012 to see if... But bear with me the same burden, if the Constitutional Court says it was an extra-constitutional action, who will pay back 4%, i.e. the Budget of BiH, who will provide those 4% of the funds for these two years to pay people back. And let me remind you of thousands of lawsuits, there are workers who think they're cut off from it. However, they sued with the BiH Court where their lawsuits fell, but no one went to the Constitutional Court to say that the member was past the Constitution and then these people would get their fees at the BiH Court of Justice. If you're allowed in here, let me put it this way, I've made an appeal to you nine with me to sign and order the Constitutional Court to once and for all solve the problem of whether it's a provision that says I can't get paid by law, which was proposed here, to cut wages tomorrow or... not to have legal uncertainty in BiH. Of course, this Law was too much of a procedure to treat other provisions of law regarding all employees. It's too much work, it's simple, and that's why I left too much work in the power of the Council of Ministers to do it, to do it with a new council. I treated only the highest officials – the presidency, ministers, MPs, delegates. And I think that we can find a measure, and then the Council of Ministers, according to their policy, that they think they lead in the term of office when the next Parliament chooses them, whether to cut linearly all employees as much as the members of the Presidency, whether they will make a measure to reduce the salaries of people employed in BiH institutions. Let them lead that policy, more specifically, to propose it and to adopt this Parliament. It would have been too big a procedure if I'd done it with all the employees and I don't think it would have been fair. Thirdly, I think it's okay to tell MPs and delegates before the election, if we adopt this law, how much they'll get paid, so that people who don't think about that pay to work don't run, or people who think that pay is okay, in line with their opportunities, knowledge, to run for it. I think it's okay. And then when they choose, there's no problem with voting if they have cheeks, but if they have materials, that BiH is going so well that they can... pay, it's not a problem to get paid. Who can forbid them? But I think it's okay to know the rules before the game, the rules before the game that they're three salaries. Fellow MPs run for next election if you feel that your work is valid in Parliament and that you want to work for three salaries, free of charge. 42% say savings, 42% clear, that's what I explained, it counts on net wages and employee fees, and now I'm going to tell you a number, for MPs and delegates, it's at an annual level of 150 thousand marks. I didn't count for the presidency, I didn't count for the Council of Ministers, and I didn't count for all the employees of BiH institutions at all, I didn't suggest how much pay should be cut, because I don't think it's right to cut the salary linearly by 42% to all employees. It would be a precedent where someone with the lowest salary should be reduced by 42%. Someone else needs to say how much wages should be cut in the BiH administration. I think it's the Council of Ministers, and I didn't give myself the right to go into such serious work. The Administrative Commission, we have initiatives that came from the SDP, the SDA, we'll discuss here on the subject, but I don't see how we can discuss the law and discuss initiatives and we're talking about different things, the Administrative Commission is in charge of the pausal. ... let's also agree to talk about it and let's say - some of them have given up the sheets, some of them haven't given up, who should, rightly, let's give up that... what can be regulated by law matter and what we can do as an Administrative Commission, that is, like this Parliament. 61 Someone was saying they will accept Dr. Živković's amendment, they will accept this, they will accept what, colleagues, after this Law, as far as I can see your support here is great, in the first reading, it is no longer Zivkovic's law. It is then the law of this parliamentary assembly that goes into the commission phase. And to warn you at the commission stage can also be revoted, at the commission stage someone can philosophize that they can put into law whatever they want. But then I also call on my colleagues from the SDS to see that their impact is great here too, when it is voted on by the law in which the Finance and Budget Committee put whatever it was they had in mind, not to allow the transfer of jurisdiction, not to be allowed to say it – here, Živković did the transfer of competencies with his bill. I also ask you in the Commission not to do this, because depending on the adoption of this Law and in the first and second readings, it depends on whether or not I'm going to sit here in college anymore. And I will resign if this is not adopted in both readings, and consider whether you deserve such a chairman or I as the chairman of this House. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Proposal for a resolution on the verification of the origin of the property – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović The motion for a resolution in the procedure was delivered by MP Denis Bećirović on 31.12.2013. At the 63rd House session, held on 06.02, under the previous issue in accordance with Article 148. The Rules of Procedure have been decided to refer the motion for a resolution to the relevant Constitutional Commission. The competent Commission delivered its opinion on 27.02., the motion for a resolution was supported and forwarded in the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. First Deputy Chairman, colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20612	Well, it's not my turn to keep one of my colleagues from commenting on it, so I've come to say a few words. So, we have before us this motion for a resolution of counterpart Denis Bećirović calling on us to invite, so the competent institutions, in the right order of the police, the SIPA, the prosecution, the court, to do their job in accordance with the law. That's how I understand it. The question is then asked – does the proponent consider that they have not acted according to the law so far, and the question is then – whether the resolution of the higher rank than the law, so now as they should act according to the law, because, according to my deep conviction and modesty, so to speak, amateur legal knowledge, existing laws in BiH allow law enforcement agencies to investigate all the illegal actions that anyone has done to this country, and especially the highest political and representative officials, to process them and to take away illegally acquired property, according to the court's decision. If, on the other hand, the proposer considers that we do not have adequate laws, then it was necessary to propose the adoption of such laws, amending existing laws, otherwise the aim of the proposer and the purpose of such a resolution is raised. 62 If we just look into the text a little bit, in its point 2, so I will only quote the part that says – the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH considers that all of these state officials, and is thought to be, therefore, members of the Presidency, MPs, delegates, etc., at the latest within 45 days of the day of adoption of the Resolution under full material and criminal responsibility, to deliver precise, comprehensive and complete statements of their property, the property status of family members. So, under full material and criminal responsibility, we all signed, so to speak, our property records. If, however, the Proposer believes that someone close to him, or here among us, or elsewhere, did not do so correctly, he is, as a conscious citizen and another, obliged to report such a thing. Therefore, it seems to me, however, that the basic objective of this resolution as inflationing my colleague Bećirović's proposal so far is just a promotion so far, both legally and others. So if we take a look at a number of these laws, and the proposals and resolutions that were clearly known at the beginning that they could not be adopted and that they didn't make much sense in fact, then a logical sequence, in my opinion, could be a resolution that would say that every citizen in BiH should have, or every employee pays at least 3,000 marks, each pensioner to receive a minimum pension of 1,500 marks, for example. "Dita" continues to produce and sell products from Devgelija to Triglav, that Freedom, that sloboda is a place in BiH's prime minister's league. If we get such a resolution from our colleagues, I'm willing to think about it very seriously, especially this last one about Freedom, because in some ways I would like the success of Ćiro Blažević. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20613	I thank the chairman. Well, it seems that by the end of the election campaign, we'll all be watching each other and listening. After three years in power, the ruling party thought it should fight crime and corruption and not the laws. He says -- supporting a comprehensive fight against organised crime and corruption. So where, who in this country sees this fight against crime and corruption? When you look at the prosecution's reports, when it comes to organised crime, it's a crime of drug trafficking, etc. Here's how many years in the BiH Prosecutor's Office's drawers mentioning indirect taxation, some of the former director's apartments were placed there and banned, where is the indictment? Where he's 10 years old, 10 years of being dragged into objects. Furthermore, he says, apart from what the resolution means, it is absolutely unconstitutional, illegal, under which law will the prosecutor or SIPA check – to verify in detail the origin of the assets of members of the Bureau? Based on which, from which member of the Penal Code? Please call me a member of the Penal Code. It's possible to do so, but assuming there's a suspicion that someone committed a crime. And what, we invite them, and the prosecutor says, please give me the law. Where's the law? Why the SDP, we don't mind, would I be supported by the SDS if we were to be proposed by the law on the examination of the origin of the officials' assets in BiH institutions. We will also not allow you to question the property of the RS officials here from this level. We will conduct our accounts within the RS and the SDS, unlike this demagogue resolution, has proposed a very concrete Law on the investigation of the origins of all RS politicians, all those who participated in the authorities since '92. The year and party leaders, that it's nice to do the unit at the IRS, where the disproportionateness between property and income, is that it can react. A specific legal 63 solution, which unfortunately most of them did not support but my Bog, so we fight to be power, to realize it. What is good in this resolution, at 2nd point, Mr Bećirović renounces the long-standing independence of BiH, which he has always called upon, and now says - of BiH's international recognition. So you're on your own, you admit that she's only recently, not so long ago. And he says – The predstavnički of Representatives believes that the competent state authorities should, if there is, take away any value in BiH and abroad. Please, how will you take away some real estate in Belgrade or Zagreb? What, to organize a military junta to keep someone's house there? Based on what, on what law? And he says – such property, if there is, should be directed to humanitarian purposes, by depositing in the corresponding budget. I do not see in any budget, nor in the Budget the BiH institution is the humanitarian sector. So, I call on the SDP, and here I promise the support of the SDS, propose a concrete law, a law on the investigation of property, the origin of property of officials in BiH institutions, means exclusively those who sit here, and us MPs, we will support you in this, not these demagogue resolutions based on which, here I am, even in this case, for the first time in my life on the part of Goran Salihović, who can only answer all of this – and gentlemen by which law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20614	Thank you. Proposer of the resolution, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20615	I, above all, take the opportunity to thank the previous debaters, and I think that they have contributed well to clarify certain issues within the contents of this resolution. And even though some have tried to have a negative... I think they've crossed that line in their intention, so I think they're even unconsciously talking about the positive values of this resolution. This resolution, therefore, passed the Constitutional Commission of this Parliament and won the required majority. So already one body before the House of Representatives discussed it and took a positive stance, according to counterpart Džaferović, a very important body within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to these remarks coming from the SDS, I must say that we in the SDP, not only in this mandate, but in previous mandates, have not escaped from any quality idea that we should clear this issue to the end. So we're not going to take these suggestions by misbehave, we're going to think about them how and in what way, maybe in such a way that we get to the goal that I believe most people want to come to. There were plenty of people talking about the election campaign. We're people who've been elected to a four-year term. When we proposed laws in 2011 they say – not immediately, while Parliament is stalking. When you want to make a suggestion in 2012. - Don't, she says, pre-election, local elections. When you propose something in 2014 elections again. I don't know when we're going to suggest anything in this country, if we look at it that way. Next, from the point of view of what the resolution is. So, the resolution is something that exists in our Rules of Procedure, as specified in Article 148, and it is very clear that this House of Representatives on certain important political, social and other issues and needs can take appropriate guidelines and give powers to the authorities in BiH, to work on this basis. I think that 64 of us have a great need in this country and in this House to bring this issue to an end and to clear it up. Every man who deals with politics, from the municipal level to the state level, if he's fair, I believe he has a desire to clear this issue to the end, to put all of his assets on one side, to put his income that he had on the other side and what I like to say if there's any conversion mark between those two sides that man has no moral right to deal with politics in this country. And that story should lead once and for all, so that we don't be a country where everyone can be a thief, a criminal, an unfair man, etc. I don't see why it wouldn't be everyone's interest to get one real check on that case. I will Vratić to the text of the resolution, but my colleague Ljubić, as a member of the College, had one statement, so to speak, of a mild, slightly terrestrial character. Now, since he asked, he'll have to get a precise answer when he wants to play like that. I must say, there are politicians who have made tactical mistakes and strategic mistakes in their lives. My colleague Ljubić is unfortunately in this second category, he made more strategic mistakes for himself and for this country than tactical ones. And the moment he broke down the April package, so he brought the country into... he brought it, and the moment he crashed HDZ BiH, and today it's back to that policy, in a way. There could be some more to talk about, but we'll talk if there's any need. Next thing you know, what am I gonna say? This is one question. It's not even a question we've raised at once. We all know there's one part, and not just in the SDP, and outside the SDP, people who are interested in bringing this issue to an end. This is not, therefore, the first question that has been raised, but it is, if it is willing, that we try to bring it to an end. I am convinced that he is in the heat of every MP and delegate in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It was a question of which day we should apply it. Finally, some have suggested since the last four, the last eight years, etc., I have purposely stated that this goes from BiH's international recognition. And I'm not running, if you think I'm going to fix it, and we can fix this text, too, to go before 1992. In addition, many forget that this is an obligation imposed by BiH back in 2008, when the European Commission decided that something should be done in this country to confiscate the property of all those who illegally and illegally acquired it. And of course we invited some institutions to do that. This is a property statement for elected officials, candidates, this is what everyone's filling out. So that's not controversial. This resolution aims, if we wish to do so voluntarily, to move forward, to make a much more precise and detailed form that will show all possible accounts, mobile, immovable property, vehicles, etc., so that every citizen of this country has a detailed picture of these things, so that everything is completely transparent in BiH. So I'm not running at all that this document is open to all the qualitative proposals, all the suggestions that can improve it. And I repeat once again, I think there's our common interest to come up with a solution to this position we've been in, not just in recent months, but for many years, which is that everyone in this country can accuse you of being dishonest, that you're thieves, etc., without any evidence whatsoever. It would be good for us to take a step forward and show that we are ready for even more transparency than it is right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20616	Thank you. Since I'm not presently announced by anyone, I'm going to announce myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20617	First Deputy Chairman Božo Ljubić, replica. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20618	Look, I don't think I'm on the ground floor, so to speak, referring to this proposal, nor do I consider this replica, so to speak, my colleagues as a ground-floor character. As far as the April package is concerned, just to say that I would do the same thing today, I have the same opinion about him. I advocate a root constitutional reform of BiH that will include a new territorial organisation in which Hrvat will have a federal unit with the Croatian majority. Point. So, and nothing has changed since April 2006, it will not change, and BiH will, if it is. As for the collapse of the HDZ, BiH would disagree with you. I think I was desperate for HDZ because before the founding of HDZ '90 in the last election held before that HDZBiH was, which I was then also a member of, of course, it seems to me in the local elections of 70 thousand votes, and immediately in the next election of over 100,000, 110 thousand, plus 60 thousand HDZ '90s of its coalition partners. So the HDZBiH position, the Croatian position in BiH, also improved. If anything, this resolution today will reveal who it is. I believe that this resolution will be voted by all those bright foreheads and cheeks clean. The first replica, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20619	I am pleased that in this replica, my colleague Božo Ljubić in a very illustrative way, saying what he was doing in HDZ and how he was building a new party, etc., explained this thesis on self-promotion. There's nothing more to be added or taken away. But apparently because of these people who don't know the real cause of this replica of my colleague Ljubić is a serious disagreement within the Joint College, which probably part of the MPs and doesn't know, about continuing the work of the joint session of both homes and my persistent insistence that after two months we vote, after the debate on these amendments has been held.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20620	Thank you. Here, as the current chairman, so I wouldn't be burdening this House with events in the Joint College, so I won't be showing anything about this, in this replica. Dear Representative Mirsad Đugum, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20621	I thank the chairman. I must point out that I would be very happy to have seen today the law or the bill on this subject, with all the regulated processes, which is the way, which is the legal path on which it is done and passed, this particular part of the origin of the property and verify the origins of each official's property. First I stand on that part to check my every property and every converting mark, behind it I stand completely and safely. But the resolution of how much effect it has, how much reason it has to make a resolution and how now you call simply the D.A. to do your job. What is the purpose of the resolution, as far as it can be realized, how much can be done and what can essentially be brought about by a new, better quality and ultimately to do the things that are really necessary in BiH, and the promoter himself said this is a commitment since 2008. We've been waiting six years for this 66 commitment to be made. The obligation was and certainly there are legal regulations that could be done so far and that it can be done in a good way by law now, rather than by resolution. I'm pulling back here in the third point says – should be directed to humanitarian purposes by paying into the corresponding budget. I wish all the properties, all the villas and apartments and the rest in BiH were taken away abroad, ships, malls, spas, spas, so that everyone could check and seduce, all the companies' political and public institutions where politics has Soviet fingers. Where from these public firms and institutions goes into political cash registers, how everything is funded and how it comes. In addition to checking individuals here, political parties should also be checked. Where the money goes, we know it well. What are the channels, we know well. Shut up, we're silent, we're out of voices. What fund is humanitarian that will unite all villas, apartments, boats, spas, etc., where our citizens who do not work will have time to heal, rest, spend weekends and holidays, etc., who, who will manage this fund? Let's not change the thesis. The Alliance for a Better Future of BiH referred to a parliamentary procedure at the Federation level, three years ago, the Law on the Abduction of illegally acquired property, which has not seen the light of the day. And then we force some laws where some agencies, which will be under the authority of the Federation government, will dispose of that property. Let's once solve some situation in this part in a legal way, a full legal way and check everyone, wherever there is an indication that there is illegally acquired property created in any way, here you go, you have applications, we have courts. I don't run away from this kind of approach but through the legal part. Resolutions do not oblige anyone, resolutions will not bring anything new, but I absolutely support doing this or supplementing this part and through the legal part to resolve this condition that has been our obligation for six years. There's absolutely no reason in the SBB that on this and these laws that need to be proposed we'll fully support them and we'll stand behind it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20622	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20623	Thank you, Chairman. If you'll let me do the discussion, by mistake I went off, I think I was on the list after my colleague Đugum, so I answered through this one, through this one. What I wanted to say about this resolution was mostly said by my colleagues. Here, I'll go one step further, I think making this resolution, I'll support it, I say, I'll support it, if I vote on it, I'll support this resolution, but I will stress that this resolution has no effect whatsoever on the social life of these people. Well, I'm proposing a resolution, based on this resolution that we're going to make, and which he suggested, I'm going to be, I'm calling him right now to be the first experimental one, here let him take away my property. I'll tell him where I have the field illegally acquired, worth 20,000 marks, and where are we going to pay the money? You're coming with me tomorrow, and I'm bringing you there, and I can't prove how I got it. You know how I got that? Up to my field I did a little bit of what... I moved over there, yeah, and mostly I did it together there in the ownership list I regulated it and there is and it's now worth one 30, 40 thousand marks. Let's go right now, you and I, I will confess everything you said, but all based on this resolution and see how it will be taken away from me and where we're going to pay? That's what I want to know. 67 So every time we bring something, you're a doctor of social science, which I'm a lot less aware of than doctors of practical sciences, so medical, dental, etc., is whether. Now, this is practically, so take away my location in the Posuje that I acquired in this illegal way, take it away from me, here is the basis of this resolution. Here's the next thing you know, let's fill out these charts, with full material, court, moral and all. I was a candidate for the 2006 presidency, on one show we hosted together Mr. Božo Ljubić, Mladen Lijanović and I, was not Ivo Miro Jović, he was, Željko Komšić was. And one of the questions was our property status, our earnings, as much as we have. The Mladen said there were 4,600 receiving marks. I ask him, monthly? No, not yearly, yearly,... I feel sorry for him, do I, feel sorry for him... Božo's saying I don't know, I have an apartment in Sarajevo, I have, I don't know, a family house in... there, there's a woman, there's something to move around, Željko Komšić is also in the loan, there's nothing in the mother-in-law's apartment. And I say, I have an apartment in Mostar worth so much, I have an apartment in Makarska worth so much. I have a location in Posei worth so much, I have a passport, a Mercedes worth so much. I've got 58,000 euros on Hypo Bank. I've got 30,000 marks in my house. I spent it on the campaign then. Turns out, I mean, I'm really the richest. And I'm sorry, I say, this people, if they have anything in their heads, they'll choose me as president. However, it wasn't Ivo Miro Jović at the time, perhaps he would have chosen, and not have chosen him, perhaps Croatian votes then in 2006, 2004 were Bosniak and Serbian, when it was an indirect choice whether, to remind. Here I am saying, and here again we weren't real when we reported some of our property cards and no one answered for it. Here's the chairman, or at this moment in charge, here I invite you to apply this resolution practically, and then, to this, I have to tell you for sure when it comes to prosecutors, to bring him there by that district attorney, the police officers, here to implement this resolution, I'm ready to try this...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20624	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20625	I thank the chairman. Since this debate between counterpart Ljubić and counterpart Bećirović got serious very quickly, she moved from football to a bit more serious, so just a brief review. From this time distance, I would still like to thank Mr. Ljubić for his views on April or even the April package. So as far as the April package is concerned, it probably looks a little different from what it seemed to me at the time, but about that later. I was probably, if I understood correctly, the first to report from a lawyer, although I was waiting for a respected colleague, Džaferović, to come forward and say what his experienced legal ear and eye said about this matter. And I've waited a long time, I see, it's all clear to me, that it came from the other side I think it would have been the first and that it would have been 11 minutes of a violent attack on something like this, but you probably have your reasons for, you have your own reasons and your right to remain silent about this. I mean, but that's why I guess there's a Professor Kunić who, I even thought, who's probably going to do it his way. I also had my colleague Denis' proposals to pull this off and eventually save the case, turn it into a classic resolution. It can only be a call, it might be empty, but at least it would make sense for the authorities to do their job in accordance with the law. That's the only way, and everything else, those speakers who said that only the law could be discussed, the new law, the corrections of the existing ones. My colleague Jurišić said it a little vividly, and that's true, the people you've listed here 68, how you think they're acting based on the resolution, here are the former prosecutors, the former judges in Parliament, would you ever accept that anything they're doing, this is a very serious thing, that anything they're doing based on a resolution this seriously. Is that right, colleague Džaferović, to you as your former judge if someone came with this you would have kicked him out of court. You were interested in laws, laws and only laws. No resolutions and no other decisions, acts that are not, because this is a very serious matter, this is in the domain of criminal law, criminal responsibility, which is very sensitive. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I agree, but what's interesting is that while there was a state that was gone, while there was a state, right, you were brought under the law and you're ready today that when there's no state to judge on the basis of the resolution. Now you've best shown the right situation where we're going and where we're at. Right, there is a promotion here to judge BiH on the basis of resolutions. That's not good. Unfortunately, SDP, as well as some other political parties, is now returning as a boomerang what we have been saying in this House for many years. The SDP and some other political parties have been guarding BiH as BiH's mezzanine judiciary, as some centres needed it to create political processes in BiH. And now he's back as a boomerang in Tuzlo, Zenica, Bihac. I have the right to my position, no cantonal governments are guilty of robbery privatisations, but exclusively, exclusively the prosecution, courts and police, no one else, no one else. We still have a call today to confiscate the property, but we don't have an invitation not to allow the robbery. So we're playing malls where the robbery takes place, scratching the consequences, but don't touch the center where the property is being acquired. Don't touch that. Whenever we here criticized the courts and the prosecution that people don't do their jobs, that we're going to have a problem with exactly what Denis was saying, we're now in a situation where they're all thieves. But not because Denis wasn't doing his job, but because they weren't doing judges and prosecutors. Oi are authorized in this country to say who the thieves are. Local self-government authorities are in charge of birth certificates, the CEC, municipalities and I don't know who else is in charge. We can't blame the judges and prosecutors for that, but for the story of the thief, of taking away property, of judgments, so we can't blame someone else for that. It's not allowed here to be exhausted at first ever. We were always prevented when we tried to point out that, reform the issue, open it, prevent the shameful influence of foreigners, not to use the harsher and rougher word, on the BiH judiciary. They broke BiH's judiciary, from former high-ranking judges and lawyers and prosecutors in these areas, they have now turned obedient officials of undefined international power centres that recruit people in BiH. You know where orders come from and who gets rid of responsibility for 300, for 500 thousand marks, for a million. Do you think they're all set free because they're not guilty? That's not true. To look at the property of people and prosecutors and those who have left BiH, where they are now and what they have acquired. And when they write what it's like, but let it be an honor to those who think it's a state and it'll be a state. If we had the strength to open it here, that this country as well as all the other countries put it under its jurisdiction and that here in this highest authority, we would be asking the judges and prosecutors in a democratic way, through their elected representatives, what is this all about, we would be making progress today. And so now we're running away from it and we're trying in one way really inappropriately, I'm not going to use a more difficult word, these things can't be solved by resolution, it can be a political act, it can be called, they can only, and only by law, and that's a sensitive issue in BiH. When resolved in the BiH judiciary, Srbin were always lower. We don't believe it, we don't believe in any new story, because the old man burned us, and now we're where we are. 69 The cities of BiH are haunted by the cantonal ministers who were elected yesterday, I am not defending them, and they are called out to them, while those who have done all these things are slowly trying to forget. Those who hold objects in drawers must not even, very interestingly, even be called. And that one, I'm looking at, the guy on TV says, when we took the crowd to court, suddenly someone ordered it -- not there. I remember that, on the TV show, so whoever was running it said, turn this on, turn this on, but not this, don't touch this. There is someone who has said that, and when it comes to this area, unfortunately, it is a total failure, it is a pillar of every country and there is no country in the world that can survive when that pillar has a shipwreck, a disaster that the BiH judiciary has experienced under whose influence, known as whose paw it is today. And these are just attempts to draw attention from a true, true story that this Parliament has no strength, nor will it ever have. I don't believe that he'll ever open up the right way to ask why it's happening to us. We could talk about it for hours, there'll be more agenda points. And then instead of asking these people, for the hundredth time I will say in this House, the only example, I forgot the name of that prosecutor who showed it right. One for the last 10 years. A man ordered an arrest out of bed, used his legal right, put a criminal in jail for 10 minutes, and all hailed, and all according to the law, and all clean. And in all other cases you have hundreds, yesterday I listen the subject is 855 pages of evidence, fact, but no one has been arrested yet, no one has been locked up and lasted 10 years. They're boasting that they've filed some kind of report. And everything to the average cop is clear how people did the crime, just like the day. But someone ordered to add more pages, write, I don't know, don't touch, it's protected and it's located. I, in the crowd of these, won't say any hard word, but that's why I say my colleague Bećirović is a historian and I think there will be more people here than I am, who will say whether the resolution can solve these things. I can only by who knows which, in my name, invite the authorities, not the competent authorities, that I call on them to do something that, or does not comply with the law, or they'll tell me that I don't need to remind them, that each of us knows which way to put them on any kind of check and check. It's my only request to spare the children in that verification, as much as it takes and what it takes and in what way and no one needs to protect anyone. Today, there was talk of a law in the RS. I think that law should be passed as soon as possible, and that's where I'll stop, and at other levels that are authorized to bring it. And at the moment when she is bold, from the bullets and the power centres when a debate is to be opened in all parliaments, let the authorities change, let no one be interested in the idea that by changing BiH authorities, there will be changes in this area. He won't. Oh, God, as they say, the daughters will take you, but they won't. Because this is an abnormal state. Because only in other countries could the change of political will have changed because these countries are sovereign. Because these countries are setting up prosecutors and these countries are democratically controlling this pillar of power. Only BiH doesn't control anything and it won't control it. No matter what political parties, here are changing here, all the political parties have changed, nothing has changed. We don't have the answers to all these questions, because structural dialogue is also an unprecedented hollow story.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20627	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20628	An unseen hollow story that has suffered its collapse and I do not believe absolutely. So, I'm finishing up, and I suggest that my colleague Bećirović, if he can speedily transform this into a proper resolution, here she would be so little, come on, but here's to save the thing, in some kind of call to the authorities to do their job. And the resolution will take away property, call on resolution or expect the resolution to do what has not been done under ten other laws, I claim at this 70-minute time the law enforcement and justice authorities in BiH, at this point, have all the instruments to do their job. They're not at 70% capacity to exploit them. They don't need any legal projects right now, and I'm not saying they won't need anything in the future, when they're exhausted, they don't need anything right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20629	Thank you. Just take it easy, guys, we're only halfway through the agenda in the second session. We're in no hurry. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20630	You see, I have no intention of actually replicating my esteemed colleague Kalabić, but I do need to discuss his discussion just to say a few sentences in these two minutes what, three, I have the right, two minutes, on the line. So, we will have to start dealing with this issue, so property, legally and illegally acquired property in BiH. So there's no dilemma. European standards, this is what we were asked to do when we changed the Criminal Law, so it did not pass here in Parliament, that the origin of the property would have to be examined and that it would be going towards a system where it would be possible to subtract property suspected of being acquired in an illegal manner and that the burden of proof would be on whoever acquired the property. So there will be a burden of proof on whoever acquired the property, and he will need to prove that he has acquired the property legally. So, the modern world in the fight against corruption applies this method and is required of BiH. This has not passed here in the Parliamentary Assembly, defending itself by the old traditional principle that the prosecutor should prove that the property has been acquired illegally. And that's one question we're going to have to deal with in BiH for sure. And I think it's a good idea for us to get out of here, so let's get out of here, say what we have, say how we acquired that property, and I don't see anything wrong with it. I see only an advantage here. There's a lot of manipulation, a lot of speculation, and I think that's good. In this context, I understand this call or this resolution proposed by my colleague Bećirović. And of course, if this is just the first step, I welcome it. We certainly need to get to the law that we're going to settle this for. If there is a mood here in Parliament to be a law, let's go right after this resolution, so I supported it on the Constitutional Commission, let's go right now, so let's write, and I think we should write a law and deal with this legal issue in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20631	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20632	Here, in the first part of the replica, Mr. Džaferović, to agree with you that we, we or someone else, will have to deal with this issue. We'll have to deal with it, because if we don't deal with it, we'll disappear. And I'm not even sure we're going to disappear sooner than we're going to start dealing with. I think there's a better chance of us disappearing than we're going to have the political will to deal with this. But let's leave. But I ask you what we don't do, what's the reason, give me 71 reasons why we're not dealing with it right now? What are we waiting for, what's the problem? Are those the small salaries of judges and prosecutors? Are the conditions insufficient, what are they still missing? What's the problem? They don't come to this Parliament, they don't report to anyone. Here's an opportunity we've freed them from these obligations. What's the problem? We see that the poor are dealt with, arrested, closed, charged, executed, seized. See how banks are taking property from BiH citizens inexpressively, within days, because the banking lobby has fought to enforce an unprecedented force with the help of the judiciary, perhaps, probably based on the law. But as they fought it, and in other areas they can't, that's the question I'm asking. And you are constantly asked to chat about the consequences, and it will not happen, just before Mr. Jurišić told you how you will take away the land. But he somehow saved that field, so at least you'll be able to see it. Do you think all those who robbed the property to guard her like Mr. Jurišić did his field? Do you think that this property is waiting somewhere, when... there's going to be political will so that she'll be dressed up like that, complex, fine here, back to the state? A little tomorrow, a little tomorrow. The complete demagogy is calling for future time,...waiting at the demands of Europe. What we must,... well, this one simply had a feeling, this space had a sense of justice, had a sense of social justice ten times more than that unfortunate Europe, not to use a more difficult word, which did not know what justice was, which was created on some other principles, capital and property. You knew what justice was here. Where did we lose that feeling? And now all of a sudden we're waiting for someone from Brussels, you know, they said we have to have a little bit of justice right now, so we should work something out. It's demagogy, it's demagogy. I think we need to take this seriously, we have the capacity, we have the people, we have the resources. But it's another fact that there's been a political abuse of justice, and I don't believe in that part either, because the judiciary has been used for very dirty purposes, which is very dangerous, because when it's used for these things, then we get to the wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20633	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20634	Oh, Mr. Kalabić, we're not gonna disappear. We will, therefore, and this issue, only need the agreement of everyone in BiH when the issue comes to the agenda. And this question has been on the agenda several times, including this Parliament. And then there was no consent, and among other things you didn't give consent to, let's say, arrange it in a fair way. I remember... when we were talking about a businessless regime, when the Criminal Law was changed, when the question of taking away property benefit was different, and when it was the way I spoke in the previous replica, the question of the burden of proof, that there was no agreement. So here, then, the authorities should do their job, the prosecution, the courts. They're doing it for concrete criminal proceedings, and they're supposed to be doing it, and the police are going to find out and, therefore, full support for me, but this is about something else. So this is about us, we need to go from ourselves, to present it to the public, and I think that then the fight will be more effective in BiH, the fight against corruption. So that's actually the point and the point. And that's how I look at this resolution. And I can say that the resolution isn't enough, that if there's any real intention, there's a law to be proposed, but here I saw it as some first step, and I'm interpreting it that way, and I think that this is where the law should be passed. And great, if there's consent, let's get people to pass the law right away. That's it, thank you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20635	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20636	Well, here's what I see and we finish the same target, same distance. No moment has Mr. Džaferović told me what in any part of BiH prevents the current authorities of the judiciary and police from doing their job when it comes to taking away property? Nothing, that's right. Don't tell the truth, they don't need anything else, they don't work for any other reason, not for the reason that it's missing. What you are looking for is a requirement for the Sarajevo charter to judge the entire BiH. Now, you can't get that. Now, that's the problem. Shut up why these don't work now, justify them in various ways, build up crime in BiH, pile up this story that Denis was saying we're all thieves because people aren't doing their jobs, and instead of asking these people to be correct, it's not easy for them to understand, it's hard work, instead of asking them why we don't work, we and we convince ourselves that the solution is in new laws. No, it's not. Banja Luka should take property in Banja Luka, Mostar, Mostar, Sarajevo, Sarajevo. It is not the solution to say – no, you will not, we will do everything from Sarajevo. Let's do what I can do first, and we'll see if we can talk about other solutions. No, no argument has been given to me by any of the state authorities at this point in time to do whatever is mentioned in this resolution. There's no argument, and there's a thousand evidence why they don't work. That's what we've been talking about all along, and I think for the hundredth time, that we should stop convincing ourselves, because there's someone in the woods, someone in the road.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20637	Thank you. Speaker of Milorad Živković's House of Representatives, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20638	Thank you. I am terribly disappointed with the debate we are having today on this resolution because I know in continuity that these or similar discussions have already been held here in Parliament at least five times. And we all agree that the privatisation process is after Dejton, so this is where the crimes that are in the law happen and can be treated. The reasons why it didn't work out, because of the judges, prosecutors, the system, we can discuss the next five sessions here. I am disappointed because if we all agree that there have been irregularities, to do what Europe expects of us, and we all stand for a European path and we talk about how these people will make us directions where we should go, what Croatia has done, so on the proposal of President Josipović, in the Constitution, it is not an obsolescence of crimes. So there is another congregational majority who will say, that law should be found at any level, but it will be known that these crimes will never go out of date and that at any time anyone who has illegally taken state money from citizens and peoples will solve them. So why can't we find out about it, so let's say this parliamentary council has managed to arrange it, and no one has anything against it. Why can't we do that is a question for you guys that I'm asking here. Whether it's a resolution or it's going to be a law, so give some other people who can agree to do it, let me do what they say and send a message to every criminal who's done privatisation in this country that won't get away with it. That's what Serbia does, here's their demands are about privatizing everyone, is that what they do, so you don't think that's gonna come to us. So if they're gonna come to us, let's step forward, 73 let's make changes and supplement the Constitution. Why wasn't this the subject that the Constitutional Commission would deal with, do, prepare the Constitution in terms of four or four general provisions of Article 9 that we talked about, to put that the crimes that came out of the privatization would not go out of date, because we couldn't do it. Let us rise from the debates of the useless who only bother us,...to five hours to work here, let us do something concrete if we are going to do it, if we don't think, don't open the problem. Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20639	Ma, Mr. Chairman, this debate, which is being conducted with full respect for distinguished counterpart Džaferović, who has no doubt a clear view that all cases of corruption need to be processed, but I say one thing that is worrying in BiH. What happened in this country, hundreds of millions of taxes from the IRS only ten years later? What does the prosecution of this country do in the first place, and what did it even mean to wait for the publication of this list that it had not responded in accordance with the Law on the Tax Administration? What, I'm telling you one astounding, watch out and we're all talking about institutions, the RS recently took away illegally acquired property in this case Ćopić, which was related to the protein sugarcane, which I think is a good message, but one example, one example here in this country means nothing or several examples. What does it mean in the first place, the alarming statements that I have recently heard, that they have asked a judge of the BiH Court – how is it? He says I'm not doing anything great. What are the judicial institutions of this country doing with reckoning and crime? And what does a trivial resolution mean, as a non-binding act, I don't have any reserves when it comes to my personal property in anyone, or anyone related to, connected... and the closest relatives to be released, but what it means if from the key judicial institutions established in this country, it doesn't matter in the way it is, we don't have any news of the processing and confiscation of property from criminals who threaten to operate this country on behalf of both the legislative and executive institutions of government. What does it mean to tolerate 10 years of someone and so much property, uh, illegally alienate themselves and rob the citizens of this country? This, a message of only 10 cases of those 100 that were published only about Kikerević has been declared, and out of those 100 there are now not one or five that exist, all that property has been transferred to someone else, would be more significant than a thousand resolutions that any parliament adopts. Even a lot, parliament with much higher dignity, unfortunately, than we are. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20640	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20641	Thank you, Chairman. Let me just say a few words, because most of my judgment on this matter has been said by my colleague Drago Kalabić. Look, there seems to be a tendency of revolutionary actions in BiH. First, the Law itself bears the name of an investigation into the origin of the property, it is a socialist..., a communist, illegally acquired property or property acquired by committing crimes, so this modern termology of acceptance, communist terminology had the origin of the property, remember, at least those who are old. So it's a nakarad term that's not suitable for the present time. 74 I don't know who said, the resolution is legally not binding, it's a political act, it's expressing some political will, but it's also one hell of a way to express political will. You know how political will is expressed? First, it should be stimulated by at least parliament, or political elites, to stimulate one serious legislation, rational legislation, rationally, not in the service of someone, especially when it comes to justice. We have raised the issue here a number of times to discuss the judiciary which, look, I have already said that, must come to this Parliament's agenda and must take this issue seriously. The issue can become a very awkward stumbling block for BiH in due time, I am most serious about it. I've been dealing with this a little lately, and I've been coming up with some data that is very, very bad about this BiH judiciary. I have to say that there's a bad word about entity justice, and there's almost a similar situation. But, of course, the international factor has culled a lot here, created untouchable people. Here, in a literal way, is the idea of independence of the judiciary. The judiciary is at least independent gentlemen, it is dependent on the law and the Constitution and this Parliament, that is, the parliaments of other institutions in BiH are passing laws and constitutions and they restrict the work of courts. But I've never seen the mood in this House... of the entity parliament having thoughts in that direction, let alone something happen more progressively. This act smells a little bit like revolutionary acts, you know, it smells like revolutionary acts that are also overcome just like we had a revolutionary act on retroactive application of the Criminal Law. This was applied in revolutionary times during the previous Yugoslavia during the post-war period. You will explicitly find it in the right theory that criminal law cannot be retroactively applied, because it endangers the rights and freedoms of people, and we have here in these areas retroactive application of the law. And I ask you this in this Parliament both before and in this term, it has been warned of this, but, therefore, by means of, how can I say, a legal coercion, false theories have created an ambience that this law can be retroactively applied, until the Court in Strasbourg has responded. So, we'd have this situation, don't think that I'm protecting criminals from war, here's the least I'm protecting them, and someone who hit a man on purpose has to answer how, let alone for murders, etc. So let it go far away from me. But those things that we used in BiH are catastrophic, catastrophic for the world at hand, that's, that's, that's the judges that were strangers here, these are the fat ignorants who could do something like that... fat ignorants, and... you have them all over the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20642	Thank you. At the end of the motion for a resolution, an esteemed colleague, the second deputy chairman, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20643	Here, a few words at the end of this debate. First of all, I have to say, I'm surprised by the fact that we spent a lot of time in one part of telling each other what the law is, what the resolution is. There are a lot of experienced MPs here who know very well what the weight of the law has, what resolution, what declaration, what conclusions, what recommendations, etc. There are no revolutionary tendencies in this motion for a resolution. That this is the case with the content of the Resolution and precisely in the preamble of the text Resolution as the first thing is that everything must be based on the Constitution of BiH, full respect for human rights and freedoms and international documents that speak of human rights. The more this resolution affirms, the more than 75 principles of transparency, legality and full respect for human rights. This Resolution was not proposed before a month or two, it was referred to the procedure as early as December 2013. The complete debate on this agenda has shown that it is good that this topic is open. I view this debate on this agenda point as one of our first steps or as one statement of willingness and our political will to discuss this issue and to find the best solutions to how to end it. In general, when I look at this debate as the promoter of this Resolution, I must say that it is a useful debate because there have been many useful ideas, suggestions, well-intentioned proposals to be considered even after this session. One of these is that perhaps this topic should be regulated by a special law. I don't run away from it at all, but before we get to the law, it's a good thing we had one of these discussions. It is certainly not possible for the resolution, nor was it my intention to replace the criminal law, nor was it BiH's criminal law. There are clear things, and this resolution has only the purpose that our Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives has foreseen, and that is to make clear our position, our commitment and give certain guidelines to BiH institutions. This debate shows that, if what everyone was saying today in the debate, there is a consensus here that we should ask the Council of Ministers to propose a special law on this subject. Shall we, together, agree that the fourth point of this resolution should be that the House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to deliver such a law as soon as possible. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So here, and I'm not running away from it, so to these other things that my colleague Živković was talking about, about putting things into the Constitution, I think we should use this debate in one quality way and try to, hopefully, after that, adopt this resolution, as the first step in this direction, take even more concrete action on this plan. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20645	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th point, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses for Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading) The draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in the procedure was delivered on 29.01.2014 by Ismet Dervoz, a member and the Interim Joint Committee, delivered an opinion on the provisions concerning gender equality. On 20.02.2014, the Interim Joint Commission submitted a revised draft rules of procedure correcting 76 technical errors concerning the renumbering of members. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and the principles of the Rules of Procedure on 27.02.2014. I'm opening a debate. Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20647	The word has the chairman of Milorad Živković's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20648	Thank you. Congratulations to the Commission which has made an extraordinary effort and I think that since the last amendments here, the Rules of Procedure have been made in both homes and commissions on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and that this is practically one harmonised part of the text that is here today before us. However, very briefly and very concisely, these amendments, which I have proposed, will be addressed in the second reading, concern: that the statement itself, since it is called a statement, does not say I am obliged but to say I am, because it is a statement, solemnly, I am talking about a solemn statement. That the confiscation of immunity cannot happen to the court but rather to decide here, the House on a proposal from the Constitutional Commission to each of the individual members. And I think even in this current Rules of Procedure, there is a similar variant that cannot be made in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure which you have stated that the immunity of the MPs is being decided by the court. Then, in Article 19, paragraph 5, the Constitution of BiH is said – except for decision-making in accordance with Article 4.3.d.. The Constitution gives jurisdiction to the College to meet as a Commission when there was not in the first reading or in the first vote enough entity majority and that, as a commission, and within three days, it cannot be transferred to any alternate or authorised proposing. Therefore, it is necessary to specify the competence of the College working as the Commission to leave it to the Kolegijum and that it cannot be transferred to any alternate. On the other hand, what is a quorum that makes a Kolegijum. I would also like it to be defined in a way that these are two members of the Kolegijum, that there should be no situation for one member of the College to be but two deputies or to be one member of the College and one alternate, that the Kolegijum must be at least two members of the Kolegijum, and that the alternate should be, if necessary, also attend the one empowered by the College and one. And at the end of the biggest grudge, if it can be a grudge, I think this is just dropped, we're doing it today after a debate we're voting on all the points of the agenda. This had to be an integral part of the Rules of Procedure, it couldn't be dropped because the conclusion of this House adopted practical changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure, I don't know why it was expelled. I think it should be in article 87, where paragraphs 2 and 3 are added exactly as the vote here says. So I think it's my most serious grudge to get re-emerged from the Rules of Procedure the way you vote, I think you should put yourself back in the Rules of Procedure this way. And I think it's been a good practice so far, because to enable the quorum, you've seen for yourself how we've made the quorum possible today, to vote after every item of the agenda, that it's much simpler and more effective when the session is over to hold a vote. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20649	Since last session, when we adopted the report on the work of this Commission, we touched on some of the basic principles that this Commission has managed, I did not feel the need, neither I nor other colleagues who were members of the Commission, to give an opening statement since we are talking about first reading. However, I just want to point out, that is, to repeat what I said last time, that the material that is in front of all of us today is the fruit of compromise and adopted principle at the very beginning of work, that in it we can find those things that we all agree on and our common commitment, expressed indeed by all political parties without any difference, that finally after a few attempts we can succeed in changing the Rules of Procedure.- In which extent it is up to this House. međuti, what I'm saying is that if the chairman of this House as the most serious grudge has something that, in my opinion, is a technical mistake, then I think we're on the right track to actually adopt this time Rules of Procedure, because by respecting all of this, I consider that there is really enough space to put some of your suggestions, if not all, into this text team before, let's just say I won't go much into the details, but this, this story of quorum within the College is the same led on the Commission. And we were all out there somewhere that no one was, and there's no catchy attitude. And I think you as members of the College can really give one such suggestion, which I don't see any reason not to be adopted by the House. What led us to the work was a request for the opinion we asked for, not only of all the commissions, but also of the colleges and our working bodies, and we got a lot of suggestions, they were mostly, if we could achieve the consensus, and largely is, but an integral part of the text. But I would really invite all my colleagues to help us in this amendment phase, not to direct this text in any direction, but to come up with a text that will have the same support he had in the Commission itself, which is, therefore, a consensus. With that, I've already seen that, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, there are several amendments, there are technical amendments, there is a correction, and even what colleague Ismeta Dervoz has set out, I think it's already been settled, because at the last session we adopted one conclusion that we all said, that the whole text equally applies to both sexes and that's where we also went to meet, I don't know if colleague Dervoz is informed about it. So, I thank you, Chairman, for these suggestions, I hope that other colleagues will have them, and that we will adopt this Rules of Procedure by respecting the opinion of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20650	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you have pointed out, I have sent a separate opinion, but this was more related to the timing in which the consideration of this proposal of the Rules of Procedure was announced both at home in our House. So this was sent on 22.11.2013 before we in the Committee on Gender Equality of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly had the opportunity to consider to what extent our proposals and suggestions were included in these amendments and additions. The Commission sat down two days ago and we have reached a decision on several amendments that we will refer to the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives, at this amendment stage, and ask for support from colleagues and colleagues. They relate, of course, to 78 gender, gender equality and representation of gender-equal language in this document. And I would also like to remind you that in order to achieve gender equality, the Commission sent this proposal to our Commission on 22.10.2013 to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure and to lay down the mandatory representation of both sexes in home and permanent parliamentary delegations, and to promote gender equality in other parliamentary bodies in accordance with the provisions of Article 20. Gender equality laws. So this will also be the subject of amendments that will be addressed, and I hope from that we will get support for them. And let me personally express, above all, the satisfaction that I was a member of a committee in which I saw a way that could be very constructive, professionally, responsibly and in a way that only go in order to achieve results, work and make certain steps. I want to thank all my colleagues for this experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20652	Thank you. Let me just answer that. I know we're nervous, but I really don't see a reason why we can't finish the whole job to the end, so even if we have to keep it going, these are important things. I think it's important that the Rules of Procedure throws out a way of voting that is an integral part of the Rules of Procedure and then you should react with the amendment, wondering whether the Constitutional Commission will accept it or not. I don't know if they'll accept it. I think it should have been an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to say that I also think that, and you will definitely agree with me, that in this new Rules of Procedure there is no article 76 that correcting the wrong quote, or an explanation, can take up to 2 minutes, has been expelled, but no more than twice in the course of one item of the agenda. You want us to bring back here a system in which you can endlessly give replicas and hold these sessions for five days. Was that not an effective proposal last time we changed that provision in the Rules of Procedure, now you have returned that replica can be singled out at any moment, and we have abolished that no more than two replicas in the course of one item of the agenda... You want to talk seriously about an act called amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, or you're just going to go over this subject, no problem then we'll solve it with amendments. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here is the brief, supporting and efforts they have made, here are a few remarks if they are considered to be good I would ask the Commission to accept them. First of all, I think of the 19th and 20th that they should be replaced, because they say – The House College is the chairman, and the first and second vice-president of the House. Second, under two – Chairman, the first vice-president has the right to resign. And in Article 20, he says what is their jurisdiction. I guess they should be what they are first and how they're built, what jurisdiction they are, and only when they resign. So article 19 and 20 seems to me like it could be replaced, but that's what some lawyers say, that's how I feel about it. Secondly, in article 54, it says -- the quorum for the work of the joint commission makes up seven members of the commission, at least half of which is members of the commission from each home. Out of seven halves is 79 3.5. So this one, this one, this one, it can't be three and a half, so it needs to be seen that these things are defined, it can't be solved that way. Furthermore, in Article 74, my suggestion is that, members of the Council say they have an obligation to attend, have an obligation to attend. Well, they have a duty so far, and they never attend. Let's write it down that they're obliged to attend, without having an obligation. I think that would be correct, because a lot of things could be directly answered here and listened. They don't have any need for that. So if we can define that by regulation, it would be good to define it. This vote, to say what Mr. Chairman spoke of, proved to be effective in any case and that it should be installed. And in Article 74. ...in Article 67. The Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, the Commission needs to be disbanded and it cannot be drawn up or when it is drawn up... a topic for discussion. And I propose that this Commission be disbanded and that those powers be transferred to other committees. Really, either there's no quorum or there's nothing to discuss, or there's nothing... Here, these are my suggestions, so I don't know how much, if I'm right, I'd be glad to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20654	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20655	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I think the commission that was in charge of preparing the new Rules of Procedure has done us a good part of the job, and I think she has chosen the right path to do her job to get to this proposal that we are discussing today. What I saw was that the commission didn't get into some difficult political issues, because I immediately examined, therefore, all the controversial points that can be controversial, the type chosen from entity territory or those present and voting from the entity. So, who remembers the debate on the Rules of Procedure in 2007 and 2008 will know what was going on here at the Parliamentary Assembly at the time. This is after the Constitution the following acts that regulate the work of this House and it is therefore extremely important. It is dobor, therefore, that the commission has bypassed these issues, because otherwise it would not have done any work in this atmosphere and do not act on the amendments when those questions are Wednesday. This quorum in the College, the way decisions are made in the College, will, will not be a member of the College, all of these were difficult issues related to boycotting institutions, blocking their work, etc. This, that much, therefore, does not burden the amendments with the next phase of the debate on this document either. What I would ask is today to think, so I will say, after this, about two things that are very important and which are a confirmation of the practice that we have here in Parliament, but before that one thing initiated by Mr Tomić, whether we have the strength, watch out, you can come to this session whenever you want, and at a session of the working body, you can come to the permanent working body whenever you want or not, and therefore there are no sanctions except that after four years the voters can recognize you as inactive and thus punish you. _________(?) 80 [[no microphone turned on]] Is it, again, a special question, these transfers, etc., but it's not the one, colleague Jovičić's subject now, we can, of course it's in place, and I'm talking about it, I want to say something else. I mean, the man said a few very serious things, so we have a commission that can't possibly add up the quorum. It didn't happen to me, so the Constitutional Commission is, there's a commission that does a lot of work, and we've never been in a situation where we don't have a quorum, I don't think it ever happened. But I don't think it's enough what we have right now in the Rules of Procedure when it comes to our responsibility. Is there any willingness to consider here that for unwarranted non-comes to the meetings and unwarranted non-comes to the meetings of the working bodies we should prescribe to the Rules of Procedure sanctions, fines, material sanctions? You're not in the session, you haven't justified your presence, and you know who's right, it's supposed to be fair to a college, 10% less than pay. You don't have a work-body session, so much less than pay. If there's a willingness to do that, I think it would be good, because we don't have enough mechanisms of responsibility. It's not enough that we have a situation that you can come and not come whenever you want and that it's just your individual thing and that sanctions could possibly be some of your possibly unhappiness in the election. Four years are at stake, this Parliament needs to sanction, I think it would be good, if there is, I would ask you to seriously consider it. That would be one, one... I didn't want to talk about this when this committee was working, I wanted the commission to come up with this text, because this is a question that we've come up with several times and we didn't have agreement. If there is agreement today, it is very simple to arrange and say this for not attending a session or at a session of the working body, unwarranted arrival, and justice is done to a colleague of these homes or bodies, sanctions is less than that and so much from the salary or from the sheets, neither do I, if he is a professional or not a professional. I think that would be very good and very positive and that would affect, I would say, the more serious work of this House. So that's one thing. And now I would like to say something that the Constitutional Commission, therefore the complete commission, together with the OSCE Mission in BiH and some other friends of this Parliament and the Constitutional Commission have managed to define, and it concerns two institutes that have been either misunderstood and implemented in BiH or not. One is called authentic interpretation, and the other is called the consolidated text of the law. We in the Constitutional Legal Commission have asked, I think, the correct question of the Institute of authentic interpretation, because it has threatened to turn Parliament into a body of administration and turn it into a court, because they have begun to come to us as Parliament issues concerning the practical application of the law. We cannot be a legislator and apply the law practically, nor give advice on the practical application of the law, because it would be a complete confusion between the legislative and executive and judicial authorities. It is known who does what in the system of power-sharing and I think that, and we will do it as the Constitutional Commission, the Rules of Procedure and this text that we have, although it has led among other things to this Commission's accounts, will act as amendments to keep the institution of authentic interpretation that we need to maintain as an exception, if all other methods of interpretation are linguistic, logical, grammatical, telelogical, historical, etc. Can't interpret norm then, which is done by the authorities of administration and courts, then he has the right to address the one who has passed the regulation to be granted authentically, and that's why it's called authentic interpretation. But, of course, there can be no confusion. We have had a lot of problems and I think that practice should also be specified in relation to the existing solutions in this proposed text. And the other thing is the purest texts of the law. Support the initiative. And here there is one mistake in these rules, I also said that to Saša at the session of the Constitutional Commission, and that is already accepted, a member who talks about the Constitutional Commission and a member who, on her ingenuity and purified, is an unofficial version of the consolidated texts and the other member who talks about it, the goal is to end this mandate in the Rules of Procedure next to the official versions of purified texts, which 81 are sometimes difficult because we do not know what all the content of what is being purified, we are afraid that we are not going to enter into the competences of the legislators, because the commission is not a legislator. Let us establish an institute and informal versions of the consolidated texts of the law and, with the end of this term, purify and publish on the official page of Parliament the unofficial versions of the consolidated laws adopted so far by this Parliamentary Assembly. And it's going to be something that, I'm deliberately talking about here, that it's also heard in the House session, we talked about this at a committee session and I'm calling on the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, you as a College, this, to give some instructions to start preparing this job, this will be done by the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20657	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20658	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I share the opinion of almost all colleagues who are, indeed, very pleasantly pleased... by the work of this committee who worked on the Rules of Procedure. It would be a great shame, I think we agree on all this, if this Rules of Procedure had not been adopted in this conference. I also share your opinion that most or almost all would be happy to work on this Rules of Procedure, especially in the next term, so it would be important to adopt. What's done, about this Rules of Procedure, I think, is, this newspaper that concerns public hearings of great importance. Then we have this, the European laws, the legislation by a shortened procedure. Specially given, I have seen, attention has also been paid to the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, new independent parliamentary bodies have been established. I would like to say that I am also pleased that the possibility of a civil initiative being directed through a competent proposing can, therefore, be addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly, which is extremely significant. I think there are still some issues that need to be resolved, and in that sense, I'm going to act as an amendment. I think it would be very important to finally define the process of withdrawing some draft law in the parliamentary procedure, when and when it is possible, so far it was possible only during the first reading. I think it would be extremely important to define that. I also think it would be absolutely business-defined to define that the draft laws by MPs or delegates must have the opinion of the legislative sector in line with the Constitution and the legal system of BiH, as well as with the European legislation, if they treat this problem, in order to prevent possible consequences, as well as amendments, means finding a way to either proposer or authorised parliamentary body on amendments to the opinion so as not to change the essence of the law. I also believe that it was important to define, I am talking here about these permanent parliamentary bodies in international organisations, so to list them in the way they exist, normally and others if this is defined by the Parliamentary Assembly. I think you could do it that way. And I also think that in this whole procedure relating to laws that have a second negative opinion, what is the period when the bill that does not receive, in particular, is therefore withdrawn or brought down in the parliamentary procedure, the motion cannot go with the same law. So that's what I suggested when changes were made to the emergency procedure a few years ago, I think in 2009. I don't think that should be a shorter period of three to six months. Thank you very much. I'll deliver the amendments. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20659	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20660	It is absolutely acceptable to me in the first reading of this Rules of Procedure and, of course, in the debate in the first reading, something should be said about the principles. And it seems to me that those basic principles he meets, first of all I think about the efficiency of this House of Representatives, one kind of consistency, one kind of future, etc. He does. However, I have chosen the most to point to another dimension, so we can make an ideal Rules of Procedure, but there must be a lot of work on what we have to do with this Rules of Procedure. Take a look, a debate on this Rules of Procedure in the first reading, a few examples. The opening remarks are given through replicas, 90% of the discussion is about to explain the amendments that will follow. So there's absolutely no discussion about principles. And if we do not change this practice we will be a very inefficient Parliament and there are no Rules of Procedures that will bring us into this. So it is up to us to respect him to the end and to teach him well and to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20661	Thank you. No more reports. We're going to the 14th point, Ad. 14. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The subject of the alignment were amandman ii and X. The Joint Commission of both homes reached agreement on the text of the amendment on 07.02.2014 and submitted the Report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Impact review report: Public Administration Reform Results, Office material for the Review of BiH Institutions
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20664	Thank you, Chairman. Let me just say it for a second. Namely, the Office for Audits has carried out an impact review on the subject of ‘Results of Public Administration Reform’. In fact, we had this session report from the Coordinator's Office, which seems to me to have been called to reform a public administration that was not accepted. So Parliament did not accept this report for many reasons. Six reform areas have been treated here, so I don't count them now. In my humble view, none of them are essential, perhaps one area can be singled out. And what was I gonna say? I was going to say that the reform has been spent on substantial funds both from the budget and from donors. We didn't have a chance to get what subjects were doing, so these subjects worked in certain areas, how much money they took, how much they received. For example, these six projects or areas carry closer to 6 million KM. So, I'm afraid the Council of Ministers and certain institutions are taking good money again, so to speak, they're taking good money. And that's why I'm asking the question, if we haven't accepted the Coordinator's Office's report, should we now accept this revision? So this Parliament did not accept, precisely for these reasons that I am talking about, because significant funds have been spent, not to mention, there could be a lot of talk about public administration reform. In public administration reform nothing has been done, nothing has been done. Some bodies are formed that have no authority. They're made up of people who, I don't think, can claim, have little knowledge from the administration, don't know the administration, but it's about significant resources, you take significant funds, and these take-outs aren't transparent. And in that sense, we should do something, ask this Coordinator's Office to deliver a report on the spending of funds in certain areas and see who was working together here, which are institutions, which are individuals, which are people. So we can't, it's a very significant asset, a very significant asset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20665	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2013 The report was delivered in the procedure 24.01.2014. The report proposed the adoption of the following conclusion – tasked the Directorate for indirect taxation to carry out the necessary general reconstruction of the video surveillance apparatus, to replace old appliances with new ones, and to find an appropriate solution to the problem of non-functioning, i.e. the poor functioning of video surveillance at the border crossing points in BiH. The responsible Joint Commission for Defence and Security delivered its opinion on the report on 11 March 2014. The Joint Commission unanimously accepted the report and forwarded it to homes in further procedure. 84 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 17th point, Ad. 17. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2013
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20670	Chairman, this is the Commission's report on the work made by our colleagues and three external members. I met with the demands of this Commission in financial terms expressed through the Administrative Commission and then the debate was opened, in fact, about something we could also observe through the prism of impact review, how much this Commission cost us and what its function is. You see that, I'm not saying that this Commission should have sat down every day, Bog forbid, but it held 5 sessions over the year and considered on average the 3rd agenda, of which of course there is one record from the previous session. So, realistically speaking, this is a 10-point agenda for a year, and this Commission's work cost 55,000 marks or 1,200 marks per session, per Member of the Commission. 85 In terms of what we have been saying today, I will stop here because the chairman of the Commission is not there and it is not right that we are further deepening this story, and if there is any interest we can do so, in terms of what we have spoken on the agenda, whose chair you are, and the pay and compensation, and in terms of what the Administrative Commission has supported, so the parliamentary initiatives have sent them to this Parliament, I think it is also necessary to consider the fees in which committees exist and to compare them simply with the results of the work of these committees. And this part of the agenda was a reason for me to say something like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20671	Thank you. If I did not go out to talk about the incorrect allegations, not members of the College are all members of that Commission, I resigned from the Commission for a number of reasons a long time ago. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20672	I am a member of the Commission of course, the President of the Commission is currently missing, this report on the work of the Commission has been adopted on the Commission itself and its work is not only taking place through sessions and I can inform you, here and write some things, I assure you that the President of the Commission is very agile, to be very honest, very agile and to organise a number of other activities concerning our functions. Our function is arranged and regulated by law, we know exactly what we are following, what reports we are considering, etc., but we also have outside these regular sessions a series of activities. However, I did not answer just for that, but answered about the fee. So, if you followed me well, today when we discussed it, I said let the Administrative Commission sit down immediately, this afternoon, the chairman of the commission who is, schedule and cancel these fees. All right, all right. All right, all right. All right, all right, all right. We can do it right now. I fully support Mr Magazinović's initiative, obviously this is why he came forward, to cancel the fees for the work of this Commission, I absolutely support and practically do not know, only to suggest a conclusion if necessary, is no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20673	Please all conclusions in writing. We'll vote in the end. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the 19th point, Ad. 19. Information on annual training plan and training of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2014, the BiH Ministry of Defence material, with opinion of the BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission On 26.11.2013, the Ministry of Defence provided information to the Joint Defence and Security Commission. On the basis of Article 11. The law on the participation of members of the 86 Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, the Joint Defence and Security Commission, delivered its opinion on the information on 11.02.2014. She took the information and directed it to her homes in further procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 20th point, Ad. 20. Information on the preparation of conditions for the use of the new Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the European Union for the period 2014-2020, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry material
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20677	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, reading this material is clear to us when it comes to capacities for IPA 2, especially when it comes to agriculture and rural development, but we can also expand the story to small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear that we do not have adequate structures to withdraw funds from IPA funds. Materials say that as a condition for withdrawing IPA 2 funds, there is an effective coordination mechanism and the existence of sectoral strategies, i.e. strategic 87 documents at our country level. However, the problem is and we can add to these problems, of course, the problem of the inability to agree on circular projects and inadequate absorption capacity. What do I mean by absorption capacity? First of all, there is no operational IPARD structure that is a condition for the withdrawal of funds when it comes to agriculture and rural development. We are all aware that the reduced exports of our products, almost stopped exports of products of plant and animal origin to Croatia, i.e. the EU countries and because we did not agree on a coordination mechanism, i.e. the establishment of a chain of command and control, when it comes to risks, i.e. the traceability of food from field to table. Practically, we haven't been able to do anything. So, in a conversation with experts from the EU Delegation, a lot more has been said, so that perhaps, if colleagues are interested, they could also update this material. What else haven't we been able to do? We haven't adopted adequate AKIs, so security laws, risks that would be the basis for withdrawing funds. We don't have consolidated and harmonised programs. We do not have exactly defined objectives that would be based on sectoral strategies. Therefore, certain strategies have been adopted, i.e. the ministries have prepared, but because of the existence, that is, the lack of political consent has never been adopted. They are the basis for withdrawing funds, and they have also highlighted this to me in the EU Delegation. The problem is also that we will have, or people who apply, so companies, farmers, who apply to IPA 2 funds, so if we create these assumptions, when it comes to the state, or our institutions, therefore, farmers will be forced to apply in a completely different way. So in the future, they will also have to co-finance projects to participate in. Nor will ad hoc be able to change funds, they will have to approach in a whole new way, so monitoring their results. Why am I saying all this? Well, because only one part of that information is listed in this material. Of course, this material only focuses on IPA, IPARD, IPA 2, when it comes to rural development, or the operational structure of IPARD, but we can really spread the story to a lot more. At the end of all things we will be and we may get help that will be directed only to the local community. The result of all this will be, not only the loss of 5.6m euros mentioned in the material, but even estimated to be lost, so if we do not agree on a coordination mechanism, if we do not agree on the operational structure of the IPARD, if we do not agree and implement sectoral strategies, we will lose 80 to 90m euros for all these purposes. It has been said, also in the materials, that BiH knows what the conditions are to withdraw funds and it has known it for 6, 7 years. I really don't understand that the ministers, therefore foreign trade and economic relations ministers, entity ministers, are primarily now talking about agriculture ministers, trying to find a common language, a consensus on the bar of basic projects related to agriculture and rural development. Because, like I said, we're gonna lose to only $5.6 million, but 50, 60, even more millions if we keep going like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20678	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20679	Mr. Chairman. So this material called the Preparation of Conditions Information, etc., it may well show and speak well of where we are and what we do when it comes to our European path. So he on the other hand shows what really defines this government and the people who lead the country about how they see what we're all talking about. We're all saying that this is the most important question, that it's our future, etc., but look, here's when you read these 6 or 7 pages of this material, which is called Information, you'll see what we're really dealing with and what the essence of ours is, let's say, action on the European path. So this material shows that there is no clear plan for the EU, there is no clear action, so here it is clearly shown that there is one, as I would call it, one full non-compliance and sterileness of the Council of Ministers when it comes to action on the European path. So I'm talking about what basic mechanisms are, basic tools that we need to move towards the EU. And read in this material called Information as we see it and what really are our positions when it comes to it. So there are no clear bodies or answers to what's going on inside our institutions that need to do this job, what's going on. There is no proactive approach to the EU. And so here I am today, here for who knows which time, I'd like you to listen to me, Mr. Chairman, so last time you promised me you'd take this session or the next session and you'd put it on the agenda for two years, and then you told me that it would go to the Joint College now. So, don't let me remind you that it was already at the Joint College and that the Joint College has made a decision on this and that the Joint College has accepted this initiative and has tasked the Commission for European Integration to deliver the material to us and has provided us with the material. And after that, we refuse to open a debate here in this House to say in general about where we are, what the problems are, what the challenges are, and ultimately, to make some kind of programme of measures to get us out of the problem we are in. So I suggest that we get this information, or this material called Information back, to ask the Council of Ministers to provide us with one whole piece of information that will contain a slightly different approach, and I'll explain that part here in the conclusion that I'm going to deliver to you in writing. So I expect we have today's action in this sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20680	I've consulted with the Sekretarijat, I think it was in your request that both homes discuss water. And then it went to the Joint College to see if he was ready for the Joint College to have both homes discuss it. If it's not just...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20681	Mr. Chairman, the Joint College has considered it, made a decision that it is ready, entrusted to the Commission, and after that we should now enter into the realization that we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20682	We just can't have a joint session of both homes. That's the only problem. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20683	Can you, if we can't both go home, can you make this home, but let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20684	Only if this is what I think you've given up on requests for both homes, that we do so in the House of Representatives. That's what I can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20685	Okay. That works for me, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20686	Okay. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20687	Mr. Honorable Chairman, thank you. Mr Šepić, I think your discussion actually means that you support the proposals adopted by the Joint Commission, because the Joint Commission has proposed that it is necessary and is required by the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide complete information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly within 30 days on the preparation of the conditions for the use of the new EU pre-accession assistance instrument for the period 2014-2020. A year. Your discussion actually means support, if you have seen this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20688	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20689	I think the only way to deal with this topic is to get this conclusion and get full information, not only about this part that's been given and that, if nothing, we open this debate here, because I'm afraid that, and if we can get political disagreements to agree, for the next month, for a month and a half that we'll be purely technically late, because yesterday there was a conference here where the Enlargement Directorate informed the participants that by the end of July of all states, and BiH, it has to make action plans to use these funds, and if it doesn't, we won't be able to withdraw the funds of the IPA funds, and then it's about a lot more money than this 80 million. I'm afraid this time the political obstacle that has always stood in the way of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict and when it is removed will not result in us being able to use the IPA funds completely, and then I'm afraid we've just entered structural and major problems. So, I just answered briefly, Mr. Chairman. I fully support the conclusions of the Joint Commission, and here on behalf of the SDP Club,... the conclusion that within 30 days we get complete information to discuss it either at this House or at a joint session of the House, because I think that as Parliamentarians, who we have launched this all at the 52nd session, we need to finish it before it's too late for anything on this plan to be done, rather than if it's too late for political negotiations to be reached, and it's clearly re-emerged, that if we don't establish structures and we don't have the documents, that we won't be able to use the funds. Thank you. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20690	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20691	Thank you. My colleagues said in front of me exactly what I was about to say, only I would say that we have all the information that anyone wanted to have about this, because we need to know that EU accession negotiations are not about amending EU law, as it is said in French, on changes in the legal property of Aki communi, so there is no negotiations on the legal property of the EU, but only has negotiations on our adjustment to that acquis. Gentlemen, the Council of Ministers and their chairman of the Council of Ministers seem to have forgotten that. And just one detail about everything that colleagues have said, so we don't have EU funding until we have strategies and a coordination mechanism. Just one detail from this report, on 16 July, the Committee met to agree on a payment system at the level of the BiH state. They could not agree because RS representatives said they should be two agencies, it was not accepted, and said they would meet again. And it was agreed in 1607, so it was agreed that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister of the Federation, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, and the three resolution ministries, would meet, for which he was the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here is the eight-month chairman of the Council of Ministers, when, in cooperation with the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, he sought to organise the meeting in question, but all invited could not respond, so the meeting has not yet taken place. Our Council of Ministers, which is our chairman of the Council of Ministers, is responsible for the most important thing in BiH, which is meeting the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Because, gentlemen, when it comes to these salaries today and the savings we say about, therefore, all salaries at the level of the BiH state should be stopped, all these elected officials and appointed, until this system is established which the EU requires or that the Stabilisation and Association Treaty be abolished. So I repeat, gentlemen, in this situation, we have signed the Stabilisation and Association Treaty where we left it, opened our EU market for 5 years, to be open by the end, and in return we will receive funds from the funds. After 5 years we opened the market, the EU met its requirements. They will not be interested in us at all in 2014-2020. whether BiH will even get one fanning. Well, they got the market with the contract they were looking for, and we in BiH in return to help our economy, we should have made our businesses institutions and withdraw these funds. The Council of Ministers together with entity governments, of course, did not. And that's why I'm saying that we only have two exits, either to establish this as soon as possible or a Stabilisation and Association Treaty to ask the question of the contract..., it's no wonder that in 2013, when we opened all our borders, when from the EU all customs were zero, so it's no wonder that all the economy in BiH felt this blow, it's no wonder that we are at this economic moment and in this economic situation which is when we see how the institutions, first of all, still have to tell us here unfortunately we have no one from the Council of Ministers because they obviously don't care, and this should be the main theme of BiH, because only this can get us out of the crisis, and no savings. We can cancel all our salaries, do nothing in due time, we won't be able to do anything with it, gentlemen. And because of that, these conclusions that are I support and once again I appeal that the saying that says is easy to wake up one who sleeps, but the one who pretends to sleep, it's very hard to wake up. Unfortunately, this can be applied to the work of our Council of Ministers in this 91st session, as such damage has been done to the BiH economy by not making institutions and not making a strategy at the level of the BiH state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20692	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this year, I became a member of the Commission for European Integration, and I would like to express myself only, and inspired by the first sentence spoken by my esteemed colleague Lijanović, I would like to highlight some of my impressions. Mr Lijanović said – we have enough information, paraphrasing, whoever wants information can find enough information. The information that I have received as a member of the Commission for European Integration during this period, and regarding any activities related to, and here are these elements concerning pre-accession assistance, is information that comes post-festum, which comes when all deadlines for normal preparation, performance of tasks, preparation of documentation, projects have long passed. The information we get is that we didn't agree on something that we needed to agree on, and that information says that what we need to talk about and don't need to talk about, because we're never going to realize it. Here's the moment we're talking about the 2014-2020 funds. For years, we have two conditions that, which must be established in order to even access the realization of one of these elements. The coordination mechanism is not even available on the dock and as many communication from various sides will not be there, and sectoral strategies will not be spoken of. We've never seen that in any indication before. The last session of the Commission is very indicative, it was a session of the Commission at which we received this information, we had a representative of the ministry who came to explain it, the only thing that was really said was that we didn't agree, we can't agree and none of this will be realised. Is this a message that we need to send to the citizens of BiH, is that the strategic policy of this Parliamentary Assembly? And I ask another very important question – What are all these tasks and how does the European Integration Directorate perform its tasks? The Directorate for European Integration, which seems to me to be a slow film, breaking down, repeating some of the personnel we've seen long ago, long ago, long ago, when it's been established, nothing new, nothing new in advance, nothing to warn us about, to prepare us or to encourage us to start to meet these jobs that we need to do, so that we can finally give the citizens of BiH what they are eager to give, and these are the means to improve and make our lives better. So the question needs to be asked, what is really the role of the Directorate for European Integrations, which are their achievements in this period since they were formed, what are the results of what they are doing and whether they are just guides who are supposed to send on different sides some documents in which the deadline has passed, for this you have no conditions,... you cannot meet them. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20694	Thank you. 92 Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20695	I accidentally pressed the line, it could have been a discussion, but I'll do it very briefly. It has been said that the coordination mechanism is a basic prerequisite for adequate power... funds from IPA funds. What we're meeting these days is that some people in government institutions act like that mechanism doesn't exist, which is not true. So, in 2008 and 2009, the Council of Ministers made its decisions, as decided by the decision-making process, prescribed what was the role of which in the process. The coordination mechanism on the European path that we are talking about as one of the preconditions is something that needs to be improved by the current system. However, all those who know what I'm talking about are probably also aware that an improved coordination mechanism on the European path cannot be forced, that it is not possible to change the constitutional structure of BiH through the coordination mechanism, especially that it is not possible through the coordination mechanism to regulate some new relations in the Federation. That is why I think it is very important that Parliament also finds time and space to discuss this topic, to make sure that we are informed because it is a really important topic. And what is also very important in this country must be known what is whose business. Today you have people who have no weight in the political hierarchy, who try to be the ultimate authority when it comes to the coordination mechanism. It's about people who are members of somebody's cabinet. So, who cancel boards and subcommittees, they're not, they're communicating with Brisel. I mean, all these things need to be opened and very clearly told what happens when it comes to it. So if we can't make a better mechanism where we know what is whose job than what we have today and which is established by the right decisions, then until we do that, we're going to use all the tools that are available to us today. In the SDP, we believe that the coordination mechanism should be improved, it should be made more efficient, but at the same time we are telling everyone who thinks that the mechanism is a co-ordination mechanism for constitutional changes either in the state or in the Federation of BiH, that it is not really that. This is a technical process, and it doesn't need to be misused.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20696	Thank you. No more logs, closing agenda. We're going to the 21st point of the agenda, Ad. 21. Appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, the Commission's ranking for the election and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH The list of candidates was submitted on 05.02.2014 in accordance with Article 2(5), paragraphs 2 and 6. BiH Election Law. The candidates were ranked by the following order: Vlado Rogić with 21 points, first; Željka Marković-Marković-Sekulić with 20 points, second; Mile Kudić with 19 points, third; fourth and fifth place shared by Božica Ban and Marin Vukoja with 18 points; sixth and seventh place shared by Davorin Semenik and Ivan Ćosić with 11 points; eighth Ivana Marić with 10 points and 9th Kristijan Zovko with 9 points. I'm opening a debate. 93 Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20698	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to propose, on behalf of the HDZ Club, a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the ranks of the Croatian people, the first-ranked Mr. Vlada Rogić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20699	Thank you. We don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to agenda 22, Ad. 22. A review of Parliamentarian Saša Bursać's initiative from the 62nd session of the House of Representatives held on 23.01.2014, which reads: "I propose that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH put the next session of the agenda to be held – a decision on the obligation of the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of BiH to make a report every six months on the situation at all border crossings, with a view to each. What is the status of every border crossing that was active before Croatia's entry into the EU, what is the plan with each border crossing, how is the crossing of goods and citizens at each border crossing, which remained problems with border crossings?" The House College has designated the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs as responsible for considering the initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 27.02.2014. The initiative is supported and referred to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Saša Bursać, applicant of the initiative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20701	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me just say a few words about this. I think this is a very important topic. We all agreed on some things when the EU accepted Croatia, i.e. when Croatia became a member and the first several sessions were currently several issues and several MPs dealt with this topic and we stopped at it all. I don't think it should stop, that this is a very important question, so what happens to border crossings, you know now that I don't repeat how many problems we've had, how it all works, and I don't think it would be bad at all, means that we're periodically getting reports of what's going on at our border crossings and what's usually the situation with the crossing of goods and citizens. I think I'm waiting for the State Commission to inform us of something itself so that we can eventually react, I don't think it makes any sense, where many institutions can do something similar to that of very important issues like this, to put them in charge of informing us what's going on and how it's going on from their domains, but here in this case definitely the State Commission for Integration and Border Management, given that they're in charge of this problem, that we're in charge of borrowing means that they're delivering these reports to us as I've stated 94 here, that I'm not repeating it. I think that would be very important to us, and we would also have insight and potential, so since we have to make some very important decisions for the citizens of BiH, we also have in mind this segment that I think is very, very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20702	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermina Ćemalović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20703	Dear Chairman, allow me to welcome all present. Appreciate the time and this game he has, I'll be very brief. As a member of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, I also supported the initiative submitted by Mr Bursać. And we in the SDP think that these reports sent to us by the State Commission for Integrated Border Management are very important to us and that it is good otherwise to have as much insight as possible and as often as possible analysis of our reports on the table. Because we know that some of the border crossings have received an accent, and some have lost all the intelligence they've had, and that's why it's good to know about all the problems and be referred to all the problems that we currently have at our borders. We know yesterday that there was also a meeting in the Foreign Trade Chamber of all BiH milkers and that normal and what the work of the Outer Chamber of Commerce offered to help them, they held a seminar that is very important and they pointed to the problems they have in exporting, in fact the inability to export milk and milk products to the EU. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20704	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. And before we move to item 23 of the agenda, I suggest that the House be made aware that the debate on points 23 to 26 of the agenda on granting consent to the ratification of the agreement and the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement is brought together. I'm putting this proposal on a plea. Here, now we're starting the vote. Prepare to plead. Vote now. [[Common discussion]] Here I am looking... again because I didn't vote. The vote again, so we vote again. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 95 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-26-0.u20708	Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats to proceed to the voting process. Point 7. – Proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property – Proposer: Ambassador Mirsad Đugum (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 24, versus 11, insufficient entity support. We won't vote right away, we'll vote next time, so two proposals, or three conclusions, will be about them when we get to the point of the law. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 36, it wasn't, abstention 1, sufficient entity support. I realize this law has been passed. Moving to point 9. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 26, there were no abstentions of 11, insufficient entity support from the RS. 96 Post-adaptation. We're going to point 10. – Proposal for a Law on an Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 32, there wasn't, uh, abstention 5, enough entity support. I realize we adopted this law in our first reading. Moving to point 11. – Proposal for a bill establishing the level of salary of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 35, there wasn't, uh, abstention two, enough entity support. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 12. – Proposal for a resolution on the verification of the origin of the property – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović. We're voting on the adoption of the resolution. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 21 against 14, abstention 1. I konstatovati that there is insufficient entity support from the RS. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 13th point – Proposed by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the Rules of Procedure in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 37, no offense and no abstentions. I agree that we have adopted the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in the first reading. Moving to point 14. – Report by the Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We vote on the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of identical text with the two amendments agreed upon. 97 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 35 for, against, there wasn't, a abstention one, sufficient entity support. I understand we adopted this report. Moving to point 15. – Report on the impact audit carried out: “Results of Public Administration Reform”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. Given that the conclusion of the distinguished colleague, Petar Kunić, is above the vote on the Report and conditioned support, as I understand it, MPs, I will put the first conclusion on the vote, which reads: – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Management Board of the Public Administration Reform Coordinators to deliver to the House of Representatives a list of entities that participated in the implementation of the project as well as the amount of financial resources they made on behalf of the compensation. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 30, against seven, there were no abstentions. I realize we've adopted a conclusion. We're voting now on the adoption of the report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 26, against 1, abstention 8, there's not enough entity support. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 28, it wasn't, uh, abstentioned 8. I konstatuj it wasn't 2/3 against and this report has been adopted. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2013. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the proposed conclusion from the report. There's no need for me to read it. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 37, no offense and no abstentions. I find that we have adopted the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens. Moving to point 17. – Report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2013. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 37, no offense and no abstentions. 98 I find that we have adopted this report. Moving to point 18. – Report on the Commission's work on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2013. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 22, against 5, abstention 10, sufficient entity support. I understand we adopted this report. We are voting only now on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić with a certain addition. Did you get that conclusion? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 36, it wasn't, abstention 1. I konstatuj we've adopted this conclusion. Moving to point 19. – Information on the annual training plan and training of members and units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2014, material from the BiH Defence Ministry, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. We receive information and vote on it. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 36, there were no abstentions. I understand we've received information. Moving to point 20. – Information on the preparation of the conditions for the use of the new Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the European Union for the period 2014-2020, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. We are voting on receiving information with the opinion of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission and the conclusion contained therein. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 32, there wasn't, uh, four abstentions. I understand we've received this report. We are now voting on the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration. There are three conclusions. Is there any need for me to read? Please prepare for the vote. 99 You can vote now. For 37, no offense and no abstentions. I realize we've adopted these conclusions, too. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić, who says – The Council of Ministers is obliged to adopt, and within 30 days at the latest, information on the preparation of the conditions for the use of the new EU pre-accession assistance instrument for the period 2014-2020, which will include information on the work of all bodies in the Council of Ministers of BiH working on sectoral strategies with a proposal for measures to accelerate and improve these activities. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 31, there were no abstentions of 5, sufficient entity support. I find this conclusion adopted. Moving to point 21. – Appointing a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, the Commission's ranking to elect and appoint members of the Central Election Commission of BiH. We vote on the appointment of a member of the CEC of BiH from the Croatian people. We vote on first-ranked candidate Vlada Rogić, a proposal from MP Dragan Vrankić in front of the HDZ Club. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 34, there wasn't, 1 abstention, a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have appointed the Vlada of Rogić in front of the House of Representatives. Moving to point 22. – Review of Parliamentarian Saša Bursać's initiative from the 62nd session of the House of Representatives, held on 23.01.2014. Is there any need for me to read this initiative? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 37, there were no abstentions. I find that we unanimously adopted this initiative. I would like to put the motion to vote on points 23 to 26 of the package. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. Thirty-five, no offense and no abstentions. This House of Representatives has decided to vote in the package. Points 23 to 26. – Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement and the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement. 100 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 34, no problem, abstention 1. I konstatovati that we have agreed to ratify the agreement and the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement. I'm closing the 64th session of the House of Representatives. The 65th session is scheduled on 15 April. Thank you. Session completed at 6:50 p.m.
