ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22647	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 70th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as well as representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who follow the work of our House, of course, and representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH institutions' audit office whose material is on the agenda of today's session were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was announced by lawmakers: Milica Marković and Nermin Purić. According to the information service, 29 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. Points 3 are added to the agenda. A request from the BiH presidency to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions. Point 12. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Point 20. Giving consent to ratification of the grant treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Defence and Switzerland, represented by the Swiss Embassy. Point 12 has been removed from the previous agenda. The draft rules of procedure on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Citizens' Board of Appeals to the work of police officers in BiH police bodies. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22648	The Honorable Chairman. In accordance with the article... Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I propose to include in the 70th session the item of the agenda, which reads: 2 Giving consent to the Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation of Delegations of the South East European countries in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Reason: At the initiative of the Permanent delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, with the aim of strengthening relations and mutual support of the countries of the region, it was proposed to establish a new form of co-operation of delegations of the South East European countries within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which after three meetings resulted in a concerted text of the Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation. At a meeting in Zagreb, held on 19 May 2014, it was agreed that the Memorandum of Understanding in Parliaments: BiH, Montenegro, Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia, followed by the adoption of the text and at the next meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, this Memorandum would also be verified. The text of the memo is quite short. It is prepared to share if an extension of the agenda point is accepted. And it would be good if we could consider it today because it was planned that we could finally exchange this at the next meeting in September. Short notice: We forwarded this to the College yesterday but did not seem to... He arrived at the College because something in the protocol and the speed of passing documents was wrong. [[You don't understand.]] So for this reason, while respecting the urgency that this text, which I think is not controversial, has been agreed by all three members of the OSCE delegation, we are considering today at the Parliamentary Assembly, I propose extending the agenda as explained.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22649	You probably wanted to put it as the 13th item of the agenda, behind the decisions, before consent, right, before the instructions on use or behind? So the 14th point of the agenda is that right, before consent? Mirza
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22650	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22651	Okay. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22652	The Honorable Chairman. I suggest seven points of the agenda. We've all got material here, and I know that the Finance Commission and the budget haven't spoken out, but I think since this may be our last session, we can't miss this kind of thing. And it is, I suggest that, as from 12th and beyond, the agenda points are found: Report on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Recording and Exchange of BiH Data for 2013; then the Ministry of Defence Report; Report of the Veterinary Office; Report on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Report on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Communications and Traffic; Report on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Report on the Financial Audit of the Mine Removing Centre. It is about reports that have received an opinion with the reserve, with two of these reports having separate opinions from the deputy auditors who believe that they must be negative. Given that we have already seen from the media that both SIPA and the D.A. are conducting some kind of investigation, I think it would be extremely irresponsible for Parliament to act here as if nothing were happening and that we should consider this. The Commission, therefore, and I propose that it be only from the 12th point because the Finance and Budget Commission can meet and end it during the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22653	Thank you. The technical problem now is that we have not received requests in written form either from colleague Kušljugić or from colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. I wonder how long it takes for you to do it. Is 10 minutes enough? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Ten minutes break and after that we vote on these proposals. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22656	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome you, your co-workers in the College, co-legislators and fellow MPs and MPs and all the others present. As far as we're concerned in the SDP, we have no problem discussing the audit reports, with our view that the place to propose this kind of agenda was at the college sessions. Which is why the colleges didn't do it, I guess we're all clear, it's probably more media-attractive, there's more to talk about. But here's what we do for this. The SDP Club also believes that there is a need to discuss all the reports, both those positive and those with the reserve, and especially with the negative and do so in a way that the representatives of all these institutions are present, which unfortunately has not been done, and for today's session there are really no conditions. But I also want to correct my colleague Pandurević – this is not the last session, Bog forbid it's the last one, we've already agreed on the appointment of the next session. And as far as we're concerned, there's no problem with this being at the next session with the appropriate preparation of the 4 that I've been talking about, so also the representatives of the audit, and especially the representatives of these institutions who can answer our questions and possibly give some consideration, etc. So, as far as today's session is concerned, there are really no conditions, but as far as we're concerned, we're very happy right away at the next session with proper preparation.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22657	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22658	I thank the chairman. Well, my remark was in the first wave just tied to the session. We'll have at least one session, if I understand, by asking the Kolegijum – it can't be on the Great Lady, so that day can't, if someone's dealing with that term. We'll have a session, we from the SNSD don't mind, but on the contrary, these dots are desirable, only if the Kolegijum can organise a debate that she has her own purpose which I assume the promoter wanted to have a purpose. It means to provide everything you need. Is that, in the meantime, until the debate and the rest, we know what needs to be provided, if it is provided, we don't mind it being and whether it's in today's session or at the next session. One of the sessions is waiting for this sooner or later, so only here is the Kolegijum if it can ensure that the necessary opinions are obtained that this debate would have the necessary quality for which I assume and that the promoter had a wish.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22659	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22660	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few practical things that make it impossible to complete the agenda like this. It is known that this Parliament has adopted guidelines for the processing of audit reports and has been working on these guidelines for many years. Guidelines include, among other things, the analysis of all observed shortcomings in the audited institutions, the creation of individual and system measures, the adoption of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and after the course of the procedure was completed. It's a cycle that takes a long time. Therefore, each institution is invited to a public hearing in order to present all that it is accused of, or recommended by auditors. If it's not done, if it's just put in like this ad hoc, it means without any suggestion, without anything, it's only for a political manifesto here that doesn't need anyone when things are this serious. It certainly merits attention, it is certain that for years we should have taken this more seriously, but at this point there are no conditions to consider audit reports in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22661	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22662	Well, I'm sorry to have to keep repeating myself with the speakers. Here, I'll give you a brief statement about the position of us from HDZ. We are, of course, interested and we support the idea that these points are on the agenda but not these sessions. Of course, appropriate preparation and compliance with appropriate procedures are also required. Since we're going to have, if we're going to have at least one more session maybe we should just, here's another appeal for these preparations to be made if we could discuss this at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22663	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22664	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the debate, that is to say, considering the review report, it surprises me that in a certain way we are dramatic, and as something as extraordinary we want to put it, as can be concluded from the same colleague, Pandurević. Well, that's the obligation we have on a regular basis, which we are carrying out consistently during this term of office, and that's what we intend to do for the 2013 reports. I am surprised that a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget, Mr Babalj of the SDS, did not meet his colleagues that the Commission had just decided yesterday to make all the necessary efforts to carry out the hearing of all those representatives of institutions who received an opinion with the reserve and in order to succeed in doing the most, that is, the final work during this term of office. So we have one progress that is seen in the fact that compared to 10 institutions that had an opinion with the 2012 reserve in 2013 we have 7. So there's probably plenty of room to work yet. Reports are submitted to the public and institutions that need to see whether there are reasons to initiate the appropriate procedures, and we should do our part of the work by procedure and by the models that we have applied and which still show some progress in this area. So, not to accept this proposal, but it's in the work plan, and that's our obligation, and that's what we're going to have to end in this remaining term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22665	Thank you. Dear fellow Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22666	Dear President, honourable MPs. As the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, I would like to point out that this proposal is extremely correct. In some ways, perhaps after a long time, it puts... the importance of all the audits, especially impact audits and potential problems that have occurred in certain institutions. In that sense, the Club of the SBB will support this 6th initiative. However, as President of the Commission, we have one technical, I would say, problem which is very clear. We have our own plan, our own hologram that we're going to adopt today and... I am talking about the technical problem, and you know perfectly well that they have to call a meeting, the representatives of these institutions have to call and then run all these activities which, in my opinion, are extremely positive, in my opinion extremely positive, finally and the Office for Audition and therefore the right place to get in this Parliament. In that sense, I would like to get instructions and get the most qualitative way of instruction as to how what is proposed obviously has, has, that... has great importance for the whole Parliament, become,... I would say already speaking... pre-election campaign, race, rather than simply us as Parliament in this mandate, in some way crowning our work and with some concrete things that have been presented in these reports. And in that sense, I would like to ask today to get some... how more effectively to set this schedule and to discuss in this term the proposed things presented by the honourable MP Pandurević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22667	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22668	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers. First, let me say on behalf of the Mixed Club that we will support the proposal by colleague Kušljugić to put himself on the agenda, so to give consent to the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of Delegations of the countries of Southeast Europe in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. As regards the initiative to include these items of the agenda submitted by the distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević in any case, I believe that these reports and all other reports should be discussed in this Parliament's term. And I, along with a session already scheduled at the end of the eighth month, we can have as many sessions as we need, so it's just up to us how much the session is going to be. So I don't see any reason why we're discussing this ad hoc today, at least without these agencies and institutions, the ministries that are treated here in this proposal, and I say in any case we'll all benefit from discussing the other institutions because even those who have worked well in the end line can be an example of those who are rated with the reserve or... negative. So, I don't think there's any way today that we can discuss these agenda points, so I say once again I will support this proposal by my colleague Kušljugić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22669	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22670	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers and all present. Supporting what my distinguished colleague Kalabić said and I said at first I have an appeal, although you did not say the date when the next session would be, but let it not be Big 7 Our Lady. It's a big Orthodox holiday, and at least that's what we've always had a consensus about, we've never scheduled meetings on religious holidays or Muslims or Croats or Orthodoxs. So, I was talking about religiousity now, not nationality, so someone wouldn't tell me that I don't know how to say it, Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat. That's one thing. You in the College agree, let us know. And now the second, and the most important, which is the session, one, the second, the third, all of August every day that we can discuss this and what this will contribute in general, all of this, here I accept the proposal of the distinguished colleague Pandurević, but what we will do for all of these agencies and the audit reports that we have received. So everyone will watch it in the election campaign, who is at the head of this agency, yeah, from that party, let's go to the pre-election campaign in September, let's go shoot them down. And what are we going to make, what decision? To commit someone to something, or to anything or to nothing. Well, if this was the first year of office, I would have voted right away, accepted and said, "Let's have a session tomorrow." Let's use that last session as people to say hello and stay friends at least in this conference, to wish... for new or new colleagues who will remain in the new congregation. And now that last session, the audit reports will be these or those agencies, the institutions, and of course I've always been so ready to put down the fire because there are always reasons for every agency, for every ministry, to find a million reasons to just run into them, and what I'm going to contribute to, what I'm going to do here. What will Parliament do to draw the most rigorous conclusions? Who's going to make a commitment? What's going to happen? Well, the journalists will laugh at us, they barely use it, and the people will laugh at it when they see it, they say -- look down there, they remembered the last session to fire at these thieves for taking money in these agencies, taking it, what they did wrong, and now they remember to do it, I say by heart, at a session on August 29th, or on September 01st, it doesn't matter, or August 04th, it doesn't matter. They remembered in the last year of their term to criticize these of theirs, athos all theirs. No one there is mine, especially the one who took wherever he got, what the people would say... and never responded to anyone. I can only appeal,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22671	Time. SLAVIKO-SLAVUJ
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22672	I'm finishing up, I can appeal to the D.A. to take over all these next assignments and see who was stealing them. And Parliament that this session should not be... there would be a lot of spending, but to say goodbye and say the only part of the agenda we've been doing, the people will show us in the elections or not, and that's the only thing. Thank you, Chairman, for what I've been through.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22673	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22674	Here, I don't see any particular need for this kind of debate, people have rightly proposed by the Rules of Procedure and I don't think there's anything controversial about it. So if we put it in today, we're going to support it, we're going to start the debate, in the meantime everything can be done about what you're talking about, we're probably not going to conclude or end it because the experience has shown us, the practice we used so far, when we put 30, 40 reports that the simple things went 8 without serious discussion, without serious discussion, etc. So today, in my opinion, this should only be considered the beginning of discussions on audit reports that can continue at the next sessions, etc. And here, when I answered, I took the opportunity to suggest that we consider that at these last sessions the parliamentary majority finely prepare a statement for the public, for the public and apologize to the citizens for this four-year unhappiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22675	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22676	Business intervention is at stake. I apologize, Mr. President, but I object to you for not protecting the Rules of Procedure of this House. This debate on this proposal of this agenda item is completely pointless. So you know well that in Article 64 which points can be placed on the agenda. These are the points for which it is mandatory to consider the commission, necessarily, so these points cannot be included in the agenda without the Commission's position. Whoever intends to marginalise, minimize or underestimate the work of this commission has the right, but there are no arguments. This commission, I am responsibly saying, during this term of office, and in the earlier term of office, has been very responsible for considering this issue. The way Dom pleaded on that is another question. The commission can't, I say responsibly, that the commission can't, not during the break of one, it can't finish considering just these seven today, so if we want to work seriously, if we want to work seriously. If we're going to improvise, if we're going to make this, we're going to take another five, six minutes off, and I'm going to suggest another 15 points on the agenda. But, uh, don't, 'cause I mean, it really doesn't make sense. We devalue ourselves. So, here's my colleague Domazet said, we were on the committee yesterday, so we're going to speed up in view of the close-up of the term of office. We're not formal yet, we haven't formally received these audit reports yet, so we'll get them according to the chief auditor's promise I think by Friday at the latest, so... They're posted on... The audit office, it is not controversial, but we have not formally obtained them in Parliament yet. So as soon as we get them, the commission will work faster, so we..., to create business assumptions that by the end of the term of office we will seriously and responsibly consider these reports and, accordingly, make appropriate decisions. Niko one escapes, if we... now someone escapes, someone doesn't, someone wants to discuss it, we will, and it's our obligation to discuss these reports, but let's respect the procedures because without a procedure, it'll all be pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22677	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22678	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 9 I do not know how many members of the Council of Ministers here, especially those whom this topic should be of great interest today. I thought that my esteemed colleague Mr. Jurišić, who is with me and Mr. Chairman Zivkovic will be a member of the Administrative Commission of both the BiH Houses, and we are at the very beginning, in this term, one of the biggest problems at the beginning, and these are then the first reports of the Revised Commission that came before us. Several times we sat down with a complete review team, the three of us as the leaders of this Commission, and especially with the main auditor. However, in which the problem for the entire time of this term is, I have been listening to you all the time, perhaps Mr. Jovičić said the right thing in the best of his specific ways. Gentlemen, there's no problem with everything that's written in the review report, the problem's in the next one. If there is any possibility or indication from that report that we all get, and we keep getting it every year, there is a sign of the execution of a crime or in the slightest possibility of running a bar crime, it is known who is in charge of doing so. That's the biggest problem, that's what Mr. Jovičić emphasized, the people listen and the people know what's going on, because this is a public document. No one, I repeat, has taken this hot potato into their hands since the beginning of our term of office, but we have transferred it from the commission to the commission of both homes and from jurisdiction to the authority of other institutions covering the BiH Parliament. What exactly is this about? What do we do now just by considering and simply trying to achieve some, as some call them, political pamphlets ahead of the elections, by sticking to even these micro situations that we, here, are being given at this session, to a little bit strengthen our voice in the people. It's very sad and very ugly, someone has already said that. Let us finally, and at the end of the term, determine exactly, if in any, this last one, this is the last one that we get, some others will get some other reports, there are at all elements of a crime or a misdemeanor procedure, so give people finally and definitely decide who is obliged to propose on this basis to the institutions involved, so the prosecution, the investigating authorities, to do their part of the work, and that part of the work that does not belong to the judicial and judicial authorities, and that is this Parliament, to make its decision for certain institutions that are called there for anything other than the execution of a criminal or criminal offence. Then perhaps those in the next period could quickly resolve this as soon as the auditor’s report is received. This way, we're gonna run around in circles, we're gonna move from one commission to another, every commission is gonna pull out that she's not in charge. Well, you can see it's done yourself. And what did we get? Nothing. Only the political pamphlets that will delay this session and we'll be sitting here by 10:00 tonight, if this continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22679	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22680	kolega Lozančić, I was going to say, you said that if we did our best we could finish this job in this term. I understand that this could be a representative home, but the job isn't done by finishing the House of Representatives. So the job was done when the second Finance and Budget Commission and the second House adopted it and thus put an end to this. That is why, and I guess that is the only reason why audit reports have always awaited a new meeting so far, because it was known to be space from the moment the audit reports came. Until the end of the term of office, there is no time period for this job to be done. 10 So, and to do all this work would have been done in half and had to be repeated in the next assembly by the House of Representatives, because it was not finished in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22681	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. Yesterday, we had a meeting of the Commission, where there were exactly these discussions, whether to discuss audit reports or not, and most of the votes were decided by the Commission to hold a debate. And during today's day, a meeting of the Commission on Budgets and Finance will be held again to determine the term, the plan, how this debate will take place. To discuss these audit reports today, I must say that they have not even come to the MPs. Secondly, we would violate the procedure, which Mr. Lozančić spoke of, is that we do not give the opportunity to listen to people and to conduct conversations on those, especially for reports that are with the emphasis on the subject or are with the reserve. For these reasons, we have also decided that this debate is being conducted in this period, that as far as we are concerned, respecting what the honourable MP Majkić says will probably not be able to do safely in both homes and in both committees, but we from our Commission did not want to be the one to stop the process. On our part, we will do the work and whether the overall report will be adopted will remain on the House of Peoples and on another commission. Anyway, if we don't run away from reports like this, we're ready to go, but there's no need to break procedures. Yesterday, the Commission made that decision, and I think it should be accepted, and today we will accept the plan of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22683	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22684	Here, first of all, let me say hello. Well, it's a good thing we're discussing this at the end of the term. And a large part of us received an invitation from the court and the prosecution to testify on the issues of our discussions on these audit reports that were in the previous period. We're all aware that the audit, which I'm grateful for, has done a great job in this previous period, except they haven't written us a thief yet, is that one, should go to jail. And it's not yours to write, it's someone else who should do it, and they've finally started doing it. And we all know that today the starting point for the conduct of litigation and the raising of criminal responsibilities is at least 15 institutions that are in place, which we are discussing, already have these things in place. And that's great for BiH. So, it went into a systematic fight with crime and corruption. Mr. Domazet, first of all, to say what Mr. Niko Lozančić said, it is true that we in the Commission have tried to do the lion's work, in the previous three or four years, which we are talking about here today. But it is also true that we in the Commission have always had unanimous views, and then when we come here, we vote in favour on the Commission and here we are against it. 11 It is also true that here, these proposed 1,2,3,4,5,6.7 reports are repeated every year, and that is why it is alarming, every year. I thought this was a 2012 report, one just missing the review report. Well, isn't that the alarm? It is also true that we, we need to discuss this, so dear colleagues that we have reached conclusions and those conclusions are not respected by someone above us. You remember we've been making conclusions about budget cuts 5%, budget cuts 10%, internal, phone cuts, cut this down, cut it down. Well, that's not respected. And we all talked unanimously about how to end crime and corruption. And of course, it should be made clear and loud that it was not respected by the Council of Ministers. And of course it should be made clear and loud that the Council of Ministers does so by one majority who sits here. And of course you have to bear the burden and responsibility for what's been going on for four years. Why don't we discuss it? Well, we should always discuss this. Because here people have written nice things to us – you've violated the Public Procurement Act, that and that. Why don't you say someone broke the law, no matter what political party it comes from? We ourselves must be more responsible to ourselves and remember what we did in the previous period as a House, not as a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22685	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22686	Well, here's to a very short look at this remark from fellow Babalja that the fight against crime and corruption has begun. Oh, my Bog. But she'll always say, "Give Bog to the daughter of God to take you away," but someone else is hanging around the house. So it's not like that, and I wish it were. Because my colleague Babalj was just talking about the objective responsibility of the majority, which is undeniable, of the Council of Ministers' responsibility, I don't know either, but it's very interesting that he didn't mention in any word those who were really supposed to arrest those who were committing crimes. They're not responsible, no. It's very interesting that the court and the prosecution don't even know why it's not responsible. So, I have said several times in this House that the prosecutor, at any level, of any level, has full legal powers that this Parliament has given him to order in pajamas any man in this country, with an audit, without review, with journalists, without journalists. He has the authority, and he doesn't need any arguments about it. They can help him, he's not blind, he's not stupid, and this brain needs to draw everything up for the D.A.'s office. And what did they do with what we plotted? The criminal silence and silence have prevailed over this Parliament's report by the Investigation Commission for the Direct Taxation Authority. You can see no one can talk. So there was an audit, there was an investigative commission, something like it started working under ours, here's the pressure on the word, people admitted that it was 2 billion, and silence. This House has reached conclusions that have made a strong commitment to someone, to this day, everyone is silent. Everybody shut up, everybody. But don't, when it gets to the end, don't expect the auditors to arrest. If the auditor has written that someone has broken or seen, the most uneducated man is clearly involved in the traits of a crime. There are people who need to do this, they won't do it, but there seem to be their lawyers who keep, persistently, from day to week, saying that their work needs to be done by someone else. Unfortunately, I wish my colleague Babalj, I end up, right, unfortunately not, and I'm going to raise both my hands and confess the day that he does. This will not start those who are not authorized to do so, not auditors, not parliamentarians, nor the many who have been and who will be, but the institutions that have a completely different intention in BiH, and certainly not the fight against crime and corruption. Rather, it is a regulation of some political processes and relations in BiH, and only then, if 12 fish are hooked along the way, whether with a mistake or with intent, will they fit into their regular activities.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22687	Thank you. House Chairman, Honorable Representative Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22688	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say that in the end, this has already begun and is the custom, I say my opinion on discussions on the agenda and I will start of course from the biggest remark that my colleague Niko Lozančić has made here that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that the debate should be directed. Just remember last session when I also said at the end of the session that we couldn't discuss the request, and then there was a request from the SDS to take off the mandatory agenda point, and we discussed at least half an hour about it. How many times does it take to get out here and talk about respecting the Rules of Procedure? However, I cannot ban a debate on the agenda, no matter what any colleague wants to say about it. I don't think that would be democratic, especially when there are ambiguous, to say, provisions in the Rules of Procedure that can be interpreted in one way or another. And then there's the College to interpret it, and I'm with them, with my colleagues in the College, and I was just discussing it, and I want to share that debate with you. Take it that article 44 wrote that the Commission for Finance and Budget is considering reports from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office and, accordingly, it would be necessary for the Commission to give its opinion, and so far we have done so in this House on the audit reports. And technically it's not possible to do that during this session because there are a lot of reports. The Commission has already set out how it will consider these reports, help us to see how this could be done in this session at all. At the same time, we have a request from counterpart Mirza Kušljugić and a Memorandum proposed by members of our OSCE delegation. But at the same time in Article 42. The Foreign Affairs Commission, under point (d) is considering co-operation with the Council of Europe,... the Union, the Central... initiative, the OEPS, etc. Does this mean that our Commission, by the delegation, too, because this is a document coming to this Parliament and whether it should give an opinion on this Memorandum. What do you want me to say, okay, it's okay, we can put it on the agenda, no matter what the Commission has given no opinion, and give this second proposal, because it's past the Rules of Procedure, I can't even put it to the vote whether it will come on the agenda. Guys, give a little help in this work, or you think it's enough just to complain about things even, now I'm proposing to another thing, the College that was ours, the Extended College of 79th was on July 02, 2014, when the calendar of activities was voted even for August. You want to name who was at the college? What are the Serbian stories now? We don't want to talk about the Velika Gospojina. What are we talking about? So we say something and we say, you know what we didn't look at the church calendar. And finally, I'm taking a half-hour break to consider these points and see if we put our colleagues and colleagues on the vote at all and the Memorandum and the SDS proposal, because they have no opinion from the Commission. Thank you. 13 [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and colleagues, he always has every right to ask for an extra break, if he needs it. This is the break I took for the consultation. The debate on the agenda is not closed. I tried to get from the Foreign Affairs Commission a report on whether the Memorandum was on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I got assurances from the secretary that the Foreign Affairs Committee had the Memorandum on the agenda, but they only accepted it. So that's all I'm saying orally. The President of the Commission can fix me if I'm wrong. However, this is not the opinion of the Commission concerning certain material under consideration at the Assembly. It's just a review of this material on the Commission that's been received into knowledge, so it's different, the form is different, and I'm talking about it. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22690	Here's the Honorable Chairman's explanation. First a little comment. All information coming to the Commission shall be received to the knowledge. So we are not even discussing reports on the Council of Europe. We used to want to do that, but it means that before going to those meetings, someone submitted a plan on which you can discuss what was done after the journey that was done, and there's no agreement and we're not doing it, but all the reports we're getting to know. This is, we've met up with one situation where we need to see how we can handle it. I think it is a good document that has no other intention but to strengthen the commitment of BiH's foreign policy, which is strengthening regional co-operation. Members of the Commission took note of the material, received knowledge, did not debate, did not give a positive opinion. If you think it's necessary to be us we can hold a session...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22691	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a situation where members of the College have not reached agreement in interpreting the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, when no agreement is reached, I will give two initiatives to the vote, on whether or not they will be able to vote at all. So the rules of the Rules of Procedure here are now put to the vote whether or not we'll even be able to... on the agenda. Have you figured out what I'm talking about? So there's a technical possibility of not doing the job, putting this on the agenda without the Commission doing its job. And then we'll be in a position to say that we didn't get a opinion from the commission and we'll postpone the debate on these agenda points for the next session. Whether it's business or not in the College, we couldn't make a deal. I ask you – do you allow us to vote on putting the first Memorandum on the agenda, because it is not the same you know, as my colleague Kušljugić, as president of the Foreign Affairs Commission, says that the Foreign Affairs Commission can deliver opinions on this Memorandum during the session. That's what the President of the Commission says. The President of the Finance and Budget Commission, counterpart Kabil, did not declare that the Commission is able to do business today and give an opinion on all the audit reports submitted here in the draft amending agenda. So it is up to Parliament to determine whether we are going to include it in the agenda or not, because the College has failed to reach agreement. So I'm putting the motion to the vote. 14 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It doesn't have to, I think it's clear enough for everyone. I think I've already explained how the Rules of Procedure works. We will vote on the proposals, and you are clear on the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Is he okay? So I am voting to put it as a item of the agenda – Giving consent to the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of Delegations of the countries of Southeast Europe in the OSC Parliamentary Assembly Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, v. 1, abstention 2. I konstatovati that the House of Representatives has determined this point to be the 14th point of the agenda, provided that our Commission, meanwhile, draws up a report on this Memorandum. We move to vote for the proposal of distinguished colleagues, Aleksandra Pandurević, to put 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 on today's agenda, to review certain institutions, not to list them now. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 17, against 13, abstention 7. Enough entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22701	18 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22702	Of course, business can always be done. Just a little bit to read what's here. The initiative, i.e. parliamentary issues, received further information: Dušanka Majkić, Denis Bećirović and Lazar Prodanović. Here you go, dear colleague Drago Kalabić, a businessman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22703	I thank the chairman. I should have done it before, but here's our only request, since, not getting into how we got to it, this meeting had good co-operation when it comes to setting dates and sessions all the time, so the SNSD Club proposal is that during the session, the College agreed this new date for August, and I don't think that's going to be any problem. At the request of the SNSD Club not to be the 28th but to be one of the dates before or after the session, to inform us during the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22704	Thank you. Any comments on the answers received? Dear counterpart Adnan Bašić signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the answer to a set of questions that I have asked, avoiding the sad one, let's say, a discussion of seven institutions important to the BiH state of interest in culture and education. It's a library for blind and weak-sighted persons in BiH. I thank you for your answer, even if it's negative. But unlike other significant political structures and officials, from the lowest to the highest level in this country, this time I use the opportunity precisely because of the blind children and youth to thank our Council of Ministers, Mr. Bevanda, who did not pay attention to the formalities, but gave a beautiful donation, that already in a very ugly way abandoned boarding school and the Centre for the Education of Blind Children and Youth has renewed and stood on his feet, as a man. So one of those assets that... has the right to have. Thank him very much for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22706	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22707	Thank you very much. I asked the question concerning the problems arising from the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, i.e. the problems arising from the crossing of the border crossings to M17 Doljana – Gablea Polje, i.e. the direction towards Metkovic. I got the answer, unfortunately this is the answer I'm not happy with. In response, it is said that the State Commission for Integrated Border Management has taken a decision to appoint a Joint Commission to monitor the implementation of this Treaty. BiH has appointed its members, the Republic of 19 Croatia has not. That's not an answer for me. We are witnessing that when we have the opposite position, when another country, and this time it is the Republic of Croatia, something goes in the interest, then we are always ready to do everyone a favor, and when it is done vice versa, we have no understanding and do not come out after the needs of BiH, or the citizens of BiH, to solve this problem. The real example is the passage through Neum, we solved it without a problem. But when these things need to be solved, then we see that we are not capable. I think it's a similar thing when it comes to a bridge on the Sava, and I think it schedules our diplomacy and that it's unacceptable and that our side, the BH side must be much more energetic in our demands to address our living needs that we have in international relations. What concerns me in the end is the fact, and I will read a consistent sentence – in any case, the State Commission for Integrated Border Management will continue, in accordance with its competences, to work intensively on the implementation and consistent implementation of the said Treaty. That Treaty is defeating. He needs to be changed, he needs to be completed, the Doljan problem has to be solved, and he doesn't stay consistent and that, dear gentlemen, we've been waiting hours to cross the border. So who's in the mood... keep waiting for hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22708	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22709	I received answers from the Federation government to one and from the European Integration Directorate to another. However, the answers I received, I received them yesterday and that time from receiving to this moment did not allow me to verify the references from the answer, so I ask understanding to plead at the next session of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22710	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22711	I thank the chairman. I got more answers and I thank everyone. However, I would only like to comment on two answers to the questions I have asked. One was the Council of Ministers and Ministry of Transport and Communications, and it was about what seemed to be the cleansing of the right bank of the Sava River in terms of demining, etc.? Given that the EU, or the European Commission, has approved significant funds for the project, and that almost nothing has been done in this respect, the European Commission has informed the World Bank that it is terminating the grant agreement with BiH, so there is practically nothing left of the project. I'd just like to point out my dissatisfaction, say definitely, that in this way a grant not to use, I wonder if there's anyone responsible for these failures. 20 As far as the second issue, which is also interesting, has been raised to the entity ministries of agriculture. So what and how much did they donate to municipalities, and what are the effects of grants in the area of agriculture that they placed? I've received from both ministries, so from this area, from the RS and the Federation, but here's what I'm going to do. About 235 million marks were donated by the RS Ministry to municipalities, but in the structure of municipalities they can say that only five municipalities were divided about 135 million marks, and in the remaining 56 municipalities 100 million. Among the municipalities most divided are Banja Luka, Gradiška, Kozarska Dubica, Laktashi and Bijeljina at the end. As for these other smaller municipalities, they are not small, but they were definitely given at such a miserable price, which is not good for even development in the area of agriculture. When it comes to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, they have not responded to me in municipalities but have instructed me to look at the Ministry of Agriculture's website, where it is possible to look for information and how much they donated, or directed funds. There's no talk about the effects, but when it comes to distribution, I've seen from analysis that in 10 cantons when it comes to population numbers, 7 cantons are divided between 12 and 15, or 12 and 25 KM per capita, while 3 cantons are divided between 95 and 117 marks per capita. However, there is no effect. I really don't think it's a good thing and that in the future such divisions, such amounts of money are donated obviously suggests that the minister shares where he thinks he should, but if it were the effects I would accept and support it. However, in these reports it is really impossible to say that the objective way of sharing was a grant, and I believe that this should be taken into account in the future. And for purposeless spending, look for the culprit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22712	Thank you. Next came the first deputy chairman, distinguished counterpart Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22713	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I want to say, so before I did more... I asked questions to the BiH presidency. One concern was the national structures of the appointed ambassadors in this presidency's mandate and the other about the national structure of the Commission for Cultural Monuments in BiH. I didn't get the deal by now. I'm afraid I won't even get it by the end of this term. I can only read from it that the Presidency ignores this Parliament as an institution or that they have something they hide from the public. But now to focus on this parliamentary issue that I asked on 25.02, which was said – whether the representatives of the executive authority at state and entity levels are engaged by function in the boards of directors, and if they are receiving any financial compensation for it and in what amounts they are. The issue was addressed primarily to the Council of Ministers, the government of the Federation, the government of the RS. However, as they did not answer after a few months, I then directly referred the question to Mr Nikšić, Mrs Željka Cvijanović and Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. So for today's session, I got a response signed by the Secretary of the Government of the Federation and there are a dozen answers from persons representing themselves as ministers in the Federation government. And mostly they all say they're not hired, or if they're hired not to receive any compensation for it. However, the very interesting response of the person by name and last name Ante Krajina, who is 21, is presented as the Minister of Finance of the Federation, who says – the Federal Ministry of Finance is not able to provide an overall response to the MP, Mr Bož Ljubić, to the issue of data on the participation of representatives of the executive government, i.e. the Federal Finance Minister by function in the boards and the amount of compensation he receives, given that the requested data are not officially kept in the Federal Ministry of Finance records, but at the level of the state, or the Government of the Federation of BiH. We note that the Federal Minister is a member of the Management Board of Direct Taxation, a member of the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency, a member of the Fiscal Council, a member of the Assembly of the Development Bank, a member of the Economic and Social Council, a member of the Council on Financial Stability, the Central Bank and the chairman of the Management Board of the Odraz Foundation. So, according to my information, this person receives, besides pay, a fee that is three times the average salary of the Federation, you know. But he doesn't know the structure of his personal finances. How, then, can this person take care of the structure of an entire entity's finances? But I'm not surprised when that same person a few days ago, when there was a speech on the replacement of the Director of the ODZ, the Federation OD Foundation, on a single question to a journalist of one of the TVs in BiH, claimed that it was actually a political issue, and he's not involved in politics. Well, I don't know what he's doing in the Federation government, people who don't deal with finance or politics, and he's acting like a finance minister. So I apologize, so I've never, or almost never spoken to an adversary, but this is so much, so to speak, indignantly towards the institution of this Parliament and questions and in some way a blow to my intelligence, which I am holding to a certain point, that I had to say this. So, I am not answering, I am still satisfied with these answers, and I am asking the question, so to say again to the persons: Nermin Nikšić, Željka Cvijanović and Vjekoslav Bevanda, to answer me, are their ministers members of any BiH institution in office and are they receiving compensation for this? I'm not interested in those who don't receive, I'm interested in those who receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22714	Thank you. Dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22715	Mr. Chairman. Last year I submitted an initiative on even regional development and investment. This Parliament has adopted this initiative. In the meantime, we have received answers from all relevant lower-level institutions. I want to thank this opportunity for one correct ratio of all the lower levels that have provided me with the answer and since we have it now ready, this is an initiative to you, that is, here is the appeal to finally put this item on the agenda at the next session and to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22716	Thank you, recorded. And finally, dear colleague Amir Fazluć. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22717	Well, I want to thank you first of all for the answer, but I want to comment on the answer in terms of time, the way these answers are delivered by certain institutions. I asked the question at the 20th session, held on February 2, 2012, today is the 70th session and we know the date. The question concerns everything that is currently current in the Tax Administration for indirect taxation. And I wouldn't comment on these arrests and all, but it's indicative that after these events, I, as an MP, get an answer. The bottom line of my question, I'm not going to quote here a question as a whole, but it was only about how to hire, apply the law, move the employees and everything else that's usually a feature of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Normally, I'm not happy with the answer, I'm not going to repeat it in the light of all the events, of the investigations that are going there, but I want to say, so 50 sessions pass, and something needs to happen for an MP to get an answer to such an actual question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22718	Thank you. Moving on to, b) New Parliament Questions Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22720	These days, there is an unprecedented harangus against the Director of the Agency for Investigation and Protection, and I, as a representative of the Serbian people to whom Mr Zubac belongs, and as chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, have questions that have been addressed, one to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and another to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, since the BiH Prosecutor's Office is responsible for carrying out investigations and has no jurisdiction to deal with the shifts and suspension of police authorities' managers, as well as their data access permits, I ask the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to answer my questions: 1. On the basis of what authority did acting prosecutor Miroslav Marković order the executive authority, BiH Deputy Minister of Security, to make a solution to restrict access to classified information by the director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA, Mr. Goran Zubac? 2. On the basis of what powers does the acting prosecutor ask the Council of Ministers to discharge the Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, since the procedure for the appointment and resolution of directors of police agencies in BiH is clearly prescribed by law? 23rd. Since the decision of the competent authority, the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, of 23/07, of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA continues to work in full capacity and without any restrictions, on what grounds has the Prosecutor's Office decided to communicate classified information exclusively with the Deputy Director of SIPA? 4. And finally, did the acting prosecutor of this kind of work go outside the scope of his powers, which are prescribed by Article 35. BiH's CAP, and overstepped the service position by taking actions that are in the jurisdiction of other persons, i.e. institutions? And just one short, which was addressed to the Council of Ministers – What can the Council of Ministers take to prevent the illegal work of BiH Deputy Minister of Security, who under the pressure of the BiH Prosecutor's Office Miroslav Marković, has reached a solution to prevent access to and including the degree of very secret director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22721	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22722	Thank you very much. We see these days often in the press that different persons of crime or terrorists are carrying a BiH passport, because at least that's how it can be concluded from the media. With that and my question – Are the information from the media that Igor Girkin, who is involved in the overthrow of Malaysian MH17, which was brought down near the Russian-Ukrainian border, has the citizenship of BiH? If that is true – When and under what conditions did he get bh citizenship? I'm asking the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22723	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22724	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I don't know who you'd be referring to, whose jurisdiction it is, but the absurdity of asking parliamentary questions is best explained here by Professor Ljubić on your parliamentary question, you can ask whoever you want the question they'll answer as they please and nothing will be taken further. But here, let me ask a question – Is there anyone in this country to order that employment be suspended under an alleged contract of action or for a certain time, not to use this vacuum and interspace when one structure is leaving and the other one is coming, to give and to host their sympathisers because they need to vote? But no one's gonna stop it. And in the end, I apologize to all those I have bullied with parliamentary issues, every session, and also from the Council of Ministers for making sure that the number of 24 agencies and institutions is reduced, that they haven't done, so that they provide me with information about the alleged over 10,000 NGOs and to see who is funding the NGO Red Roof lovers and all those others who have fallen prey to various compatriots and white-world scum who are funding it and causing riots in this country. But everyone I asked answered the question the way they wanted them to, and I knew the truth was different, and I couldn't do anything as an MP. So I'll just remind myself that I've said here several times in Parliament, that in eight years, unfortunately, I've never seen anyone with handcuffs taken from Parliament as a thief and a mobster who made all these things that I pointed to through various parliamentary issues and made a fool out of himself, because I was aware that nothing was binding on them. Well then, dear Professor Ljubić, this is not only a confirmation of what you have said, but it may, as you have called them, the so-called, so-called or fictional minister answer whatever he wants, only offends your intelligence as an esteemed professor, whom you have respected in Europe, because I've watched the Internet a little bit, so I know they respect you, but it doesn't matter who respects you it's important that I appreciate you as a man and an honest politician. And I end up, so they made fun of us here with all kinds of answers and made us do what they wanted and they didn't take anything as a consequence. It is unfortunately absurd to ask parliamentary questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22725	I thank my colleague Jovičić. At the same time, I thank these qualifications that have been addressed to me, only a little notice that in one claim may prejudge the results of the election, when he said that this one structure is coming and the other one is leaving, I apologize, therefore this comment. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22726	Thank you. I have prepared here another, here are two, three questions for the Council of Ministers above all and inspection services – are international organisations and foreign diplomatic and consular representations stationed in BiH obliged to conclude labour contracts when it comes to their employees bh citizens? Did the institutions in charge also carry out any controls and checks, what did they see and what they did? The issue is for the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. In a reasoned question, BiH can still qualify for EU IPARD grants for the period 2014-2020. so I would ask for an answer – Who was obliged to carry out this part of the work on setting up IPARD structures and establishing the ministry, why was it not implemented and what in this regard seems, or intends to do, with an explanation? And third for the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Taking into account the procedure as a significant dispute against BiH under the heading ‘Case’, the number, due to the non-compliance with Directive 1999/32 of the European Commission relating to the content of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, as well as the amendments and additions to Directive 93/12/EC – What seems to be and can be expected to be the same solution in the next two months when it intends to discuss this dispute at the level of the EU Energy Community? Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22727	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22728	Mr. Chairman, allow me to greet you and everyone present. In accordance with Article 8. I refer the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to the BiH Council of Ministers – that the BiH Council of Ministers Report for the Second cycle of the Universal Periodic Review on the state of human rights in BiH submits to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and consent before sending the UN Human Rights Committee to Geneva. I explained that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees recently organised a public debate on the subject: "The draft Universal Periodic Review on the State of Human Rights in BiH - The Second Cycle", which BiH should defend before the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva at the end of this year. Given Parliament's significant role in improving human rights, the Interparliamentary Union organised a seminar in February of this year in Bucharest involving our delegation. It concluded that without parliamentary action involving the adoption of laws and supervision of government work, and the direct involvement of parliament in the work of the UN Human Rights Committee, a very small number of recommendations from the Universal Periodic Review on the State of Human Rights would be applied in practice. The Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly during the discussion of the Draft of the First Universal Periodic Review on the State of Human Rights in BiH also adopted a conclusion sent to the BiH Council of Ministers – That the Universal Periodic Review should be submitted to discuss and agree with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH before the UN Human Rights Committee is sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22729	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22730	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members welcome you all, dear guests, all present in the hall. I have one question that I asked not through the form of a question but when we first discussed the floods here, I was interested in some details about the dissection, and this time I'm going to do a little bit of affirming through my question what I was talking about back then. So, what about the mosquito intervention promised by the Council of Ministers? Please be delivered to me why and why is it promised at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly that interventions will be by the Council of Ministers? However, it did not occur, people in the flooded areas were hoping to intervene because the media passed on the Council of Ministers' promise, so I would say that if nothing was to be done correctly, it would be at least apologized to the people at risk. I'm asking the Council of Ministers. I want to comment on this a little bit. We were sitting here, here we all heard there was going to be an intervention, that there were some interstate agreements, this, that, but it all fell into 26 waters. Waiting for it for all the local communities, which essentially do these things, hoping, means because they heard from the media from the most serious people in this country that there would be some interventions, they hoped for what was entirely justified, and I believed that this would happen, but the procedure did not take place. People in endangered areas, flooded areas, and in a wider area were seriously threatened by insects. Maybe it looks funny and lame to someone now, but believe it or not, here I come from near the flooded area, two months before the local community reacted couldn't get out of a closed space where it wasn't, so it solved that disinsection problem, so it couldn't get out after 6:00 because it was just impossible to breathe. I think it was very unserious to promise here and not do anything about it, and in any case don't answer for it anymore, but just shut up like that and let it go just like that. I think it would be extremely correct for people to at least say a few things about it. That's the first thing. The long thing is, the local communities were hoping, so there would be some intervention from here, so they probably didn't want to spend their resources on it because they had planned documents designed to do that part of the job, but of course they were threatened by floods had better things to do and they had where to target those funds. At least it was fair and correct to inform them that it would not come to this. So, this might be for some small, maybe for some big thing, but I think once again BiH has shown its dysfunction and that's one completely, so I'm going to say a free, funny creature that can't honor a single, let's say, banal promise. If the interstate agreement had already failed or whatever, it was fair and correct at least not to use funds to help those local communities who were at risk, and to refund some of these costs. I apologize for the weather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22731	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22732	Thank you, Chairman. I would, therefore, have one question from the BiH Direct Taxation Authority. All of us who cross the border, and earlier in commenting on the answer to the question, Mr Vrankić spoke of a crossing in the Doljans, which we are crossing the borders, I must tell you that I am often ashamed of how the border crossings on the part of BiH look to those on the EU side, or on the Croatian side. Given that the Directorate for indirect taxation is responsible for regulating and installing infrastructure at border crossings and it is also evident that the Border Police do not have adequate conditions for their work at border crossings, i.e. they are in a discriminatory position with regard to staff of the Directorate for indirect taxation, and therefore the issue of my Administration – Does the Management intend to ensure equal working conditions and for the Border Police, since in their jurisdiction is to regulate border crossings of the bar regarding infrastructure facilities? I've seen at several crossings that border police officers sit on old, open wooden chairs unlike these customs officers or employees of the administration who also have air-conditioning in their containers there unlike those who don't and have leather chairs. Therefore, we need to give importance to the Border Police who had adequate and good results, because they have several times managed to arrest these colleagues from the Directorate of Direct Taxation for thieving. Even when we were traveling to Vienna in the sixth month, here's the whole shift that was arrested by those 27 who don't have these very conditions. So if we had good conditions, surely their result would be much better than it is so far. It's a question of them. And the question to you in the College, since you have received one letter from, I no longer know if he is an ex-employee or current employee of the Office of Appeals – Do we have a legal office today to discuss complaints? And if we have him, Mr. Chairman, would you like to deliver to me decisions on the resolution of former members and the appointment of new members of the Board of Appeals? It is known that one of the alleged newly appointed members of the Office of Appeals, who came out of "The Official Messenger of BiH", was removed yesterday from the office of Deputy Director of the Archives, that one of these appointed members is still working in BH Telekom, whether, some are even members of the Independent Committee, the one who decides what to do with the director of the SIPA, so he would ask you to resolve the issue at last, because these days there were in the media and the phenomenon that there was no quorum for work, means the chairman of the Office of Appeals said there was no quorum for the work of the Office itself, and they dealt with very important issues when it comes to, here you have seen this, the printing of these ballots for the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22733	Thank you. So, it's not a practice for colleagues to answer, but we discussed this issue at the college last night, this issue of the Office of Appeals, and we agreed, that is, to make the right decision, and we tasked the dom sekretarijat for proper treatment. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22734	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question from the Ministry of Defence about an event that is already well-known to the public, but Parliament has never received a report on the event. So, the issue is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Defence. On the occasion of the March 12th, 2014 marking of the Third Infantry regiment of the Armed Forces of BiH in Kazara "Kozara" in Banja Luka, the BiH Armed Forces' Third Infantry regiment was considered and lined up. According to information transferred to BiH by the media at the ceremony, the anthem of Republika Srpska was intonated, and other serious violations of the protocol related to Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik's statement occurred. Since the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not been informed of the incident, I ask the BiH Ministry of Defence to provide detailed information on the event, as well as information on what the BiH Ministry of Defence has taken to sanction those responsible for the incident. So, I was supposed to ask this question at the last session, but because we discussed the defence minister's responsibility, I didn't want to bring this matter into contact, and I'm asking the question for Parliament to get a report on this. This is a matter which, therefore, is an unusual and very important and very important issue and must not remain that the BiH Parliament has not received information on all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22735	Thank you. 28 Next came dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I ask a question to the Council of Ministers in shape – When will the Council of Ministers finally act by law and suspend the director of SIPA Goran Zubac from office? Reason: A police officer must be suspended under the Law on Police Officers when an investigation is launched. In the case of Goran Zubac, not only has an investigation been launched, but the indictment has also been filed by the BiH Court of Justice. The director of the SIPA is the highest-ranking police officer, the chief police inspector general. In this case, the Council of Ministers does not observe how the Independent Police Committee is playing with the nerves of bh public, and the Council of Ministers is under the law responsible for the appointment and resolution. Basically, it is responsible for the solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22737	Thank you. The following is Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22738	I thank the chairman. I have three questions and all three are addressed to the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH and the Ministry of Finance. In December 2003, the BiH Human Rights House issued six rulings in which the municipalities of Bratunac, Foča, Visegrad, Vlasenica, Rogatica and Mostar were ordered to pay a monetary contribution to the Institute for Missing Persons totalling 600,000 marks for the purpose of collecting information on the fate of missing persons. I am interested – Are the dates of this funds transferred to the account of the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH from the account of the Missing Persons Institute? Were these funds provided from the date of payment to today and how much interest? And who was the authorized person to traffic these funds and in whose name? In fact, we heard Mr. Mašović complain that the Institute had no money, and 620,000 marks were hidden in the account of the Missing Persons Institute, which was liquidated the other day and according to the information that I am holding, only now transferred to the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22739	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22740	Thank you, Mr. President. I have one question with several questions to the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm interested in one. How many BiH states have provided, raised funds to repair the damage caused by the floods in BiH? 29 2. How much of the total amount is a grant, and how many new credit debts? 3. How much money is provided from domestic and how much from foreign sources? 4. When will the act on the allocation criteria be adopted? 5. When are they finally going to start the distribution of the collected funds towards the threatened areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22741	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22742	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer the issue to the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers – I ask for a full analysis and answers to all questions raised in this term of the Parliamentary Assembly concerning the contracts, ownership and hydroaccumulation management of the Bulgarian Lake. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Council of Ministers should give a clear answer whose jurisdiction is and which is the path to amending the contract in order to allow adequate compensation for the use of hydroaccumulation by the Bulgarian Lake and the regularity of the contract that is now in force and related to management and ownership. Answer in writing and within 45 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22743	Thank you. And last reported, distinguished colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22744	Here's what I'm gonna do. I've got two agent questions and I'm gonna deliver them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22745	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. A request from the BiH Presidency to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 23.07. with a request for review under emergency procedure. Material, I hope you all have, although it's been a short time, but we've made an effort to deliver it to everyone. 30 I'm opening an emergency hearing. We're discussing a request.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22747	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22748	Dear colleague, First Deputy Chairman, colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22749	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It's not a dispute to bring rebalancing, so I'm going to speak figuratively, budget and provide funds from domestic sources to help the population suffer in these floods. I myself, when it was debated some months and a half ago, suggested and even suggested some sources, or items of the Budget from which funds could be re-used for this purpose. The question is, therefore, what were the BiH institutions doing, in the first row of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, which is authorised by the Proposers of the Budget, to this day, to tell us yesterday at 3:00 on the phone that the amendment and addition of the Budget Act from the Bureau institution is coming and that they are asking for adoption by emergency procedure. It is not also disputed that funds are needed urgently, not today, not tomorrow,...so yesterday, so they were long needed, but there is one problem here and two reasons why I could not support this emergency procedure, so do not deny that the funds are urgently needed. First, I think that this proposed sum of 7,139.000 KM is miserable or, if you want, embarrassingly small in view of the needs of the public and given what the international community is giving through various forms. So, and I'm convinced that just from a few items, for example. capital purchases of space for BiH institutions, purchases of vehicles, etc., etc., we can obtain at least double the figures offered here. The second reason is that, therefore, paragraph 3 of Article 3a) in this Act, so the amendments and additions to the Law which it says – the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be made available to the governments of entities and the Government of the Brcko District in accordance with the allocation criteria set out by the Council of Ministers by a special decision. What am I reading from this? I read from this that this Council of Ministers only declares itself in fact that it is not capable, that it is not competent to deploy its own funds to the BiH institutions. And then I wonder if the Council of Ministers deserves my support as such? And I am convinced that at least two ministries in the Council of Ministers, specifically mentioning here, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees have enough capacity, even the competence to distribute these funds according to the criteria on the basis of a programme to come before the Council of Ministers. So, the reason I'm not into emergency procedures, so because we can't react to amendments, we can't even change the decimal in this proposal if we treat it in an emergency procedure. So I suggest that we treat this as a shortened procedure, that in the next week, if this proposal is adopted on the short procedure, we do so in the first reading, that within the next few days, we give the next opportunity and the representatives to react to the amendments, that today, if the Council of Ministers and the Presidency may also correct or supplement this proposal, and that the next week, when we agree on an extended college, and how much I am reported by the chairman, we will have today one session of the Extended College at the time of the break, to decide the next week when we will hold a session, respecting, of course, that the great Muslim holiday is next week, but there are enough days when we can do so. Therefore, I propose a shortened procedure precisely because we could respond to this proposal in a good way. In the first row, the funds should be increased, and then also 31 in the second row, so that we can charge the Council of Ministers that the funds that BiH institutions collect or receive and distribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22750	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22751	The SBB's position is simply to support fully the process and to transfer certain funds to those most vulnerable and that this should have been the day before 10 days ago or as soon as possible. I don't think at this point we can support the emergency procedure, because it's precisely from this argument that the security of the funds has much more, that much more can be singled out and much more directed to the people at risk, and to help solve this problem. I don't see why the phone, why the last day before Parliament itself, and to put ourselves in such a situation that we can't discuss anything at all, or that we can't propose any amendments, or any major funds from certain parts, or for the benefit of endangered citizens. For this reason, we propose to do it in a shortened procedure, that in the next week, Parliament sits again, that within 5, 7 or 3 days, the amendment, that the Commission can also give its opinion to the budget, and that perhaps today we hold another session in which we will simply vote on the proposal in the first reading in order to allow for a quick, shorter procedure to collect amendments in the next few days, that the Commission for the budget should give its opinion and that next week we hold a meeting in which there will be a single item of the agenda or this item of the agenda, to vote and to make a change of this item by 7 million, because one third of the citizens has been threatened by these floods. We are aware of all the disasters that have occurred and the needs of citizens for funding, both from the budget as much as possible, both from solidarity, credit or donor funds. I think we have time, a rush of 5 or 7 days won't do anything special, it won't help the citizens much, if it's been waiting a month and a half and in a month and a half, it hasn't responded, that we can also extend those 5 and 7 days, and significantly more resources, and also react to this, so that the Council of Ministers is in charge of this part, not to be transferred to entity governments, but to have, if Parliament already approves those funds then the Council of Ministers has the full capacity to manage these funds and that parliamentarians in the new council that can control and spend these funds, so to say, on the insight of what has been given and where it has gone and how adequately allocated and transparently worked with these funds. So I propose that we take a brief procedure, hold another session today at which reading will be held in the first reading of this Law and allow for amendments to be discussed next week and adopted in that form that is acceptable to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22752	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22753	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. 32 We, according to our already established practice and practice, can establish here in the most severe or more eloquent epithets of many government institutions in this country towards the citizens of this country, but we are already used to it and the citizens are used to it, but also to the elected representatives of these same citizens, I mean the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is a shame, a shame, that after 2.5 months of the flood, our proposer delivers this proposal to Parliament. You can imagine, she managed to organise the International Donor Conference, hello, all the countries of the world to gather in one place to help BiH citizens, and it takes 2.5 months for our Presidency to deliver such a shameful proposal. It's a five-time shame, and it's still making us monkeys here. We should normally just raise our hand, that's what's expected, just to raise my hand, it doesn't matter what they suggest. Seven snotty million suggested four billion damages. Well, they spent so much on helicopters. You know, I'm just... I'm... I'm... And someone's got to pay for it. I mean, I'm having a hard time trying to contain my emotions when I'm talking about this, because I was thinking, I don't know who I'm going to ask the question of what I just asked, when we're going to start dealing with those damages? With this money, right? Less than 1%, less than 1% of the BiH institution budget, we have allocated more than 1/3 of the country's citizens to help them. And you can imagine how much we're going to help them with seven million. Who do we paint anymore? And also, be careful if I thought of it by accident and yesterday at 9.30 p.m. I delivered the Law with a request for an emergency procedure, half of you would be going to check in the office to see if I turned in at 9.30 or at 10.05 p.m., because the Rules of Procedure must be at least 24 hours before the session. That's what we know, but I'm not going to... to the Rules of Procedure, I've just made sure that the President knows the Rules of Procedure well, but here's the thing about how we behave. I don't think it's appropriate to warn more about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So we have a paradoxical situation here. This is a request that's more than urgent, but he's two months late. He's two months late to be urgent now. And then we're brought into the final act, 12 hours before the delivery sessions, and who are the nice ones, you see how nice they are. Now we Parliamentarians need to take it or throw it away. Take it or, we can't change. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I mean, after what I think about this, this isn't for leaving, because this is a shame to stay somewhere, that someone finds something like this in the archives of this country. And then it's proposed, uh, and modality, divisions that I absolutely disagree with. The Council of Ministers informed us that in the first session after the flood, due to the floods, etc., it formed an Interresor Working Group to establish criteria for the allocation of funds to be collected. It was expected that the world would respond, that they would donate something, that they would give, that loans would be taken, that we too would collect something from some of their reserves. We don't have that act today for 2.5 months. We write here that the Council of Ministers will deploy it to entities and the Brcko District. I ask the question – which would not be allocated to the municipalities by the Council of Ministers the funds we raise, which would not be on cantons. Because I've been listening from the media, since we don't have information, how much money is collected, how much money do we have, what are we going to share? In the end, with respect to the Council of Ministers' assistants, how much interest is real for this problem we see there is no one in the name of the promoter, no one, so interested in them, so much that they are interested in when this will come at all, whether these flooded, threatened, carried away, etc. That's our... And this, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, is a shame to accept, this is a shame to accept if we want to at least a little face and dignity to preserve ours, this is embarrassing. And if we can't single out, and I guarantee we can, here's my colleague Ljubić talking, there's a part of it that has a reserve, and eventually who says there has to be a backup. If our commitment is true, if we expect 33 to help us Germany, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, neither do I, the United States, hello, who says that we can't do a little more than the others, because it's still our country, our citizens, our damages and the minimum minimum of what I expected, to be honest, that it will be without jeopardizing the functioning of any institution, it was at least 10%, and we're not even 1%... For those two reasons, since this is, it's not... it's already late, but neither will I support, the emergency procedure should be supported to bring this down right now, so the emergency procedure you can't change, the shortened procedure, this amendment can't be fixed here, this is impossible amendment, we don't have the capacity in Parliament to fix this, I don't think we're fooling ourselves. Because you should take a look at it, and you should, but we have a few days, it's better to wait a few days, so it's better to wait a few days, we can hold a session tomorrow and the day after the week, and I know that Bajram is behind the week, but it doesn't have to be, it's not Bajram for 5 days, so we have time, so let him prepare quality. And I am to adopt it by a hasty procedure, but to really make it, deliver a proposal that we can accept from the light of our cheeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22755	Thank you. Next up for discussion, dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, on procedure 127. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22756	Mr. Chairman. So, when we talk about an emergency procedure, the problem is that, as the predecessors have said, it is a very small amount of funds for the dramaticly difficult situation in which the largest number of BiH citizens, who expect this situation to be resolved as soon as possible, have found themselves. I'll draw attention only because I wouldn't go into detail, but to make more than 2/3 of these funds pay and cost employees and contracted, so services that were planned. It is absurd that, out of the 12 million planned funds for telephone services and PTT services, only 78,000 can be allocated. Now let me say that it's been seven months,...for these five months to separate from this 2 million item, absolutely no activity of the BiH institutions would be damaged. How it is possible to plan fuel supplies increased by nearly 400,000 marks. So did the Armed Forces spend all of their fuel on the irrational spending of funds in BiH institutions. Five million marks from this item would save absolutely no one's problem could be. And there are many, many others, renting space, please only 12,000. Is it possible that out of so many institutions you cannot cancel and enter contracts that would reduce the use of space by 50% in some of the institutions, etc. So I think we need to seriously consider how this problem is coming out. Absurd is another major one, the Council of Ministers must say that in time he went with the institution's proposal to cut the budget by 1%, that a huge number of institutions did not react in this regard. How is it possible now that we suggest that we should neither be in the Armed Forces, nor the Department of Direct Taxation...? It's possible that they're so rational despite this situation they've been in, possibly the damage they've done to them, but they had to show how much damage they've done to do. So, I believe that this Parliamentary Assembly should find a way to adopt, at the latest by the end of this month, the amendments to the Budget Law to the institutions in shape that this amount should be at least three times the amount proposed. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22757	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22758	If the promoters were here and held to this House they would probably withdraw this proposal, but apparently there is nothing of it, so I will say something in the context of what Niko Lozančić was talking about. What man, I think we've been brought really into a delicate situation. People who are not informed, people who are objectively unable to understand the overall situation, the structure of the budget, 1%, 7 million, etc., expect us to support the emergency procedure. So there's a huge risk today in terms of understanding by people and the way information doesn't support this, an emergency procedure request. But I absolutely won't support an emergency procedure for the simple reason that, not that it's singled out symbolically, but possibly more symbolic, the most symbolic 1%. I know that this budget can't stand its absolute size, structure, etc., some hundreds of millions, but this is really a dibidus, so to speak, went below the need and below the situation. We have had so many initiatives here in Parliament according to wage cuts, some costs etc., it is not mentioned anywhere. Also, I'm interested, and here's a competent man here and he'll be able to explain to me, the explanation is that a significant drop in income from indirect and direct taxes is expected. Then it would be logical for the spending party to reduce this budget to the level of expected revenues you claim will be less. So you had another reason to do rebalancing. However, no matter what, I'm not opening that story, it was especially necessary to analyse the budget implementation report in six months and see the percentages of realisation, so ask for money. The worst possible variant was resorted to a linear reduction of 1% except for the three exceptions where the proposings remembered, however, that management or OSA had also been killed and that they needed funds, etc. So I'm not going to support an emergency procedure request, although I'm not convinced that something special is going to happen in these 10 days, some better solution is going to be found, but at least let's express our relationship to the way and what Niko was talking about, that we're simply not that flow water heater, but that we're people who are reading, who are thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22759	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22760	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I am well-known to support Mirsad Lozančić of the predecessors, this will also be the prefix of the gentleman in front of Đugum, normally all, the esteemed colleague of Prodanović and all the distinguished colleagues who spoke before me, that I do not repeat. Those in the Bureau knew that today was a regular session of the House of Representatives and remembers those for the extraordinary session of the Presidency yesterday, and two months have passed since the flood. And yesterday they need an emergency session, like they never had regular sessions. And what's that? Transferring the burden that tonight the media also say that the press is writing – I only singled these thieves out 7 million from the budget, 950 million as it is, 35 instead of putting all the resources, taken away from the goods by the judicial verdicts on bid, cars seized on bid. And we, or they had yesterday, and we get these reports today, and 10 days ago, our delegation was preparing when they're going to be at the Donor Conference, they knew exactly who they were going to be, because Europe is doing it under normal circumstances, there's no 4-5 hours before the session is held to take down the responsibility to move on to us. Well, this is really, what Mr. Lozančić said, insulting the mind if he's still here, and it's normal, all here are respected colleagues smart and will never assume the responsibility of the Presidency and this javelin they're doing to us. So what were they doing for two months in regular sessions? Were they keeping an eye on him? Well, here's to commend the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so they've already shared almost the vouchers, hello, they're doing a month of two how they're going to do it, and the Presidency is having an emergency session yesterday, and we're talking about a state of emergency from the flood. And they never thought of doing anything normal to help this people, even if they adopted this. And I won't vote in favour of an emergency procedure, or of a reduced procedure, or of a regular one, because this is underestimation of the people. What will they do for 7 million marks? What can I do? I can't go anywhere without counting right now they're going to say here's the entity mentioning it, here's any one in BiH. What can I do, when every night we have television support for some five-member family who's in danger, and they won't intervene with the Presidency from their incomes. If I could vote that conclusion, I would suggest it this way - all proceeds to end up suspending the presidency because of public service and irresponsible work and underestimating the intelligence of this people. To take away all funds by the end of the term of office and transfer them to this fund. And then, so we don't stay outside the presidency, and we're the only ones who pay back our burden with a ball, to cut some income to us and to the Council of Ministers. And what I was saying in the parliamentary question, which was essentially, that the Council of Ministers has reduced the number of agencies, so from those where they were stimulated, they took the money, not from the Institute of the Missing, where we're still looking for 20 years after the war, they're all looking for and they're forgetting their family members, and that's our priority left for future generations, and now 7 million needs to be singled out. I don't know when these strangers see if they're laughing at us. It takes a state to allocate 100m euros, to help us through a donation or a loan, it doesn't matter, on favourable terms, and we in total at BiH level to single out 7m. I don't know if these people, and it's no wonder that that Japanese ambassador did this, but the Balkans aren't Japanc, so he needs to be clear that it's not possible how he thinks it is, because everything here is impossible. What he thinks is possible here is all impossible. Or what we don't think is possible in Japan, it's impossible for us. A million combinations. So, I don't want to take responsibility for myself, and I'm sorry for the people who have suffered a really big accident because I'm in an apartment that hasn't suffered any accident and I'm fine with it, but when I see those unfortunate people with 5 or 10 family members that have nothing, no parquets, no walls, and I don't even know the roof, and now just out of these seven million that they've singled out and suggested, there's going to come at least 5 marks. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So it's insulting these people, underestimating them, it's such a ride I don't know what name I'd call. As they recall, I guess someone tipped them off that today is Parliament's session, and they're never here, only when it was an inouguration I saw them in the front row, so you're chairing when you greet them finely say they're invited to this session. Well, there's no proposal on behalf of the Presidency either. Is anyone there? When he says wait, man, this is initially 7 million, so maybe we'll get 70. How? Let me ask them, I have no one to ask. And then I'm going to ask the esteemed finance colleagues, who, of course, prepared this because in the Bureau, they have no place to take anything down and who to take away, so don't take responsibility for the presidency and put someone's shame on us. Well, I'm not going to embarrass myself and vote for this kind of thing, so I'm going to be too free to be criticized by anyone who will, this is too mild a word of laziness, this is nonsense. Seven million out of so much money, and it's well known that seven million can't raise a single economic giant who's been killed, where everything's been destroyed, where workers don't get paid anymore. And what good will this do them if only they were given. But he wants the one in the Nuts, he wants the one in the Shams, he wants the one in Doboj, and how to split this, seven million. 36 I don't give a shit, if I keep going, I don't know what I'm gonna do anymore. _________(?) Sit down, sit down. The easiest thing to do is sit down, sit down, but you'll take this, fortunately, this is your chairman's signature, but he doesn't know what he signed, and he's against this. Since you're throwing me out of my place so I can answer you right now. So, whatever the procedure, whether in 5 days, whether or not they can increase this item to one 70 million, which would somehow be about our material and financial possibilities, and this 7 million to no longer insult anyone, and especially not to overpower us the burden of their own responsibilities and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22762	I won't warn anyone about the Rules of Procedure, I think the alphabet was long learned in the Rules of Procedure, so I'll leave you to the conscience that you're doing it. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22763	I thank the chairman. I fully understand the disdain and resignation of the esteemed and dear colleague Jovičić. However, I would like to warn you, the way we talk about the BiH presidency here and the use of the term "javezluk". I won't be angry you can tell Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Komšić anything, but don't forget that there is also a Serbian member of the presidency, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, who comes from the SNSD. And I have no intention of protecting Mr. Radmanović, but I respect his electoral legitimacy and the will of the citizens of RS who we trusted four years ago. You can say he's irresponsible, you can say he's not doing well, he's cheating, but please don't use that termology at least according to him. I will remind you, dear colleague, yes, I am surprised, I think that, at least humanly speaking, that neither the other members of the Presidency nor Mr Izetbegović, nor Mr Komšić, would have refused any amendments if Mr Radmanović had invested them on this proposal that had come. And here I welcome this self-criticity within the SNSD where you are ready, here you are finally and if we want to say the awakening of democracy in the SNSD, to criticise both your member and party official, and to criticize Mr Nikola Špirić, who also comes from the SNSD and who wrote this draft. So I think it took a little synchronization a long time ago. We certainly won't support this emergency procedure, because we think this is really mockery and the citizens of the RS. And when we talk about donor funds, we certainly need them, but there are a lot of those donations that are of a credit character, and yet someone has to return it, they will bring back those citizens and the RS and the Federation, that is, the whole of BiH. We are also in credit debt these days, while on the other hand, so I saw recently Minister Špirić's statement in the memos -- these institutions refused to cut their budgets when they were asked to take an opinion. So should we ask them? Maybe some of them were ready to ask for a budget increase. Well, I guess it's the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers who make the decisions. 37 They will cut them off, and they will not ask them. They know how much they have left to fulfil their legal obligations. What about capital investments? From year to year, we transfer neutral assets for capital investments. Is it more important to build some buildings, is it more important to waste ourselves, or is it more important to help people who have lost their roof over their heads? So me, the SDS won't support emergency procedures. We'll certainly have our amendments to this, and I welcome this criticism. I'm just asking you, Mr. Jovičić, to keep an eye on the dictionary, if anything, for the sake of a Serbian member of the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22764	Thank you. All right, let's take it in a row, according to our conscience. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22765	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the thing, since the Presidency has been mentioned a lot, I'm going to talk to everyone in that tone about a short replica. But before I say it, the Bošnjak in us say that up to the cadium is as smart as after when we'd have money today. If by any chance this was the adoption of the 2014 budget and the SDA proposed 100 million for flooded areas, you would all vote or vote against the amendment from the post. But now this is just before the election, what happened happened, and now there's a different way to approach it. The SDA was eventually pushed out of power because it always warned, always warned that the BiH state's small budget, could not meet all needs. We should've said, yeah, there's going to be rain, so what happened is going to happen and then you say we're prophets. But here today it's true that we lack money and we can't shut down all the holes, but here we are talking about the state budget and we forget that, which is a millionth of a millionth of a millionth of a billionth of a billionth of a billionth of a billionth of a budget. Therefore, we need to put our finger on it a little bit too. But I want to say about the responsibility of those who made the budget that they don't have money today and I can't talk like this. It's always a little bit big from the kid, that's what old people say, and sometimes it should be reminded of. However, what Mrs Pandurević said, created this budget, Mr Špirić, the finance minister, adopted and sent the Council of Ministers to the presidency. But Mr Bakir Izetbegović, a member of the Bureau, has also been sent to the Bureau for 2014 through amendments, and we have re-invoked him back here in three. How does a member of the presidency have the courage and strength to increase the BiH state budget? What are we talking about here today? So we have to have some principle in life when we talk about these things, and not today, we didn't need money yesterday and today we need money, the day after tomorrow is the election, and let's take this opportunity to apologize to get as much support as we can for the voters. So I would ask you, all those who continue to direct the story towards the Presidency, you know all the procedures as to how and in what way the budget is created and who adopts it, who proposes it, where that budget is adopted and finally we are responsible for not increasing it and not saying it – so there may be some elemental disaster. I remember we proposed the means to launch the helicopter and talked about the elemental disasters. I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22766	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet, replica. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22767	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I answered the line for two reasons. First, because a number of opinions have been expressed here that reflect the lack of understanding of the nature of the BiH institutions' budget, and secondly because some of the truths have been made. Well, I'll just start in a row. First, this situation requires that all levels of public money authorities take appropriate measures to respond adequately to this situation at least within the limits of solidarity. The BiH institutions' budget is not social or developmental, it is administrative. So here's only money for the functioning of institutions. So when we made the budget, we had a problem adopting it for a million or two, now we're going to go for a radical change of seven million and something more that means a terrible change in the funding of institutions, a relatively big change. Secondly, the amount of 7 million is projected to 6 months this year, which means that at an annual level we can consider to be 14 million, which is therefore an extremely great effort both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency have taken to give an appropriate answer. Third, let us appeal that similar things are done in those who have about 92% of the public money in BiH so that they take appropriate measures. This 950 million administrative budget is around 8% of BiH's total public spending. Therefore, my dear colleague Jovičić, whom I highly appreciate and sympathise, do not talk about 70 million KM figures which, when it comes to this budget, is an administrative one-imaginary sum. We can speak that at entity level, we can speak at canton level, etc. So, I believe that a huge effort has been made and we will support the emergency decision-making process at the SDP Club, on the emergency procedure on this proposal to amend the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22768	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22769	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just repeated what I did and confirmed what my colleagues spoke before me and listed their names. Secondly, he was fully aware and he was never my voice attack on the presidency, because this presidency wasn't preparing, it was just a matter of work. They got this and they just forwarded it to us. So, to be fully understood, I have nothing against the presidency. Dear colleague Pandurević, of course, I respect all my colleagues here in Parliament, in the first part, as disagrees with mine and everything later confirms what I said. And at the end of the alibi, she defends, a Serbian member of the presidency, as she is from the SNSD, from the SDS. Now that's an absurdity bigger than this seven million. It is invaluable, to defend a member of the SNSD predsjednštvo, and a distinguished colleague who did not have any performances here without being hooked up by the SNSD, and the Government of the RS, and the institutions of the RS, etc. 39 Since I know little about the economy, I respect Professor Domazet, but is it here, Professor, as you well know, that the radical measures of the Council of Ministers could not increase the excise luxury goods, planes. So five BiH citizens have their own planes, professors, yachts, taxation, all kinds of luxury, an increase in alcohol, everything, there's money, not 7 million of those 70 million I said. There's one here, I'll call it a group, that's what strangers say casta, living an enormous life like they're in the Bahamas, so much money, and it's about pure thieves who don't have days of work, who stole this poor girl and nobody's going to deal with them to bring them maximum taxes. Why doesn't he have a suggestion? Tax right now. This is not my conversation with you because I respect you, this is just one of the initiatives where the money could have been collected. That's what I asked for at the excise. Why didn't the excises increase to luxury goods, but another blow to the poor? They could have. So turn to all of you colleagues where you live, not far away, within a mile you'll recognize five thieves who live near you who don't have a job day, have huge businesses and property. Why didn't the Council of Ministers tax them? Is there a chance? That is the essence of our accident and therefore this is an insult to all BiH citizens with 7 million. That's what I was talking about, not whether the Presidency is fully aware that they are not, I don't know if they read as I did, they got this from our other institutions and passed it on to us just to transfer their responsibilities to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22770	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22771	I've got a few things to replicate, although I wouldn't recommend that some people talk about the discussion of their fellow Jovičić because they've changed times and I'm afraid that he's right and that many will understand it only later. I need to say a few things, it's one thing, I don't know why there aren't those who need to be there, I know that Mr. Špirić announced himself this morning that he was absent and that he was justifiably absent, that he had... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I agree, I didn't mean to be respectful, but the official proposal should be Mr. Izetbegović, right? He is officially the one carrying the document and we, this Parliament has long agreed to this kind of humiliation. Unfortunately, no one has managed to cope with the situation that we have, with the full respect of the people who understand this, who are there, who know but do not decide, do not decide. They're here to help us out, and that's their range. How we got into this situation, but it's important to say two things, that the Council of Ministers was proposed, that is, this figure was 15 million and that it was rejected. That's one thing. It wasn't exactly the beginning of such a small number. And what I need to say is, a reaction to the story should I do for the budget of BiH couples, I would love my colleague Sokolović, here I am sorry he is not here, what kind of salary ratio at BiH level is about the donor conference and about the conclusion of this House and do you think that's okay? Maybe it used to be one way or another, today we think it's absolutely wrong and we're going to ask if it's possible today, what about the House of Representatives' conclusion that the Council of 40 ministers makes a new Law of Salaries? And to see what savings that would be, would they be only 1%, according to this House's decision? I don't think it'd be 1%, if it was much more. That conclusion has been ignored. And Mr Sokolović cannot say that at BiH level there is no money on the salary of 5,000 marks. It can't, it's not right. Here, he can come out here to Sarajevo and ask any citizens if he thinks he still needs that kind of money BiH. You can't say that the Commission for concessions that spends half a million marks and doesn't do anything, that it's a shortcut from __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22775	Time. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22776	There are many who took part in this. There's a lot of people who've taken a break in that lease and are blocking it from happening here, 30 million. It's not developmental, it's not social. No one can convince me, we asked for credit funds to be allocated to buy spaces and that we could free these funds and eventually get to poor three million and with a story, instead of someone saying that they support it, he says no, no, and that's what BiH needs. You don't need that money, you don't need that money for sure. Some others may be needed for other purposes, but they certainly do not need them. I had a need to insist on these two conclusions and it is not excluded that the SNSD will not seek a break that according to these two conclusions, the people present here today tell us how much money this is in our debates.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22777	Since I got a warning that we don't have a quorum I'm giving a break until 3:00 to try to secure the quorum. At 14:50, I'd like to ask the presidents of the clubs to build an extended college. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, please take your seats, try to continue to work in a way that, after this part of the agenda, they reduce 41 discussions to five minutes, and the replicas to two minutes, to ensure that the whole agenda is adopted today. Dear counterpart Dragan Vrankić has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22779	Thank you very much. Here, I'm going to make a short contribution to this particular one of yours, the need for a restriction. Amendments to the Law on, in fact or as we say rebalancing, this is one message for me, a message that can be viewed with two aspects. This haste procedure is basically one message that it's about a really alarming need, an emergency thing, and if there could have been another word that's more striking, urgent, express, haste, then it should have been done, in fact, it should have been done a long time ago. And that's good. On the other hand, I think all the other messages are really bad. It is a bad message that we only single out 7 million marks for one such urgent thing and for one major negative, elemental disaster in BiH. The other thing that's equally unacceptable for us or for me, when we want to do this like this, then we see, and we're all less witnesses in one way or another, we've been in these benches, that every year we have 30 to 50 million funds left untapped. We are now not a standing up to be consolidated and to practically find a little more resources and to defacto send a message to those who really need to help us. Respecting all levels of government and our circumstances, I think this is a very bad message to international actors who need to help this country that we are only able to give 7 million and 100 thousand marks. The second, very bad message is that it has been proposed that these funds, according to criteria that have not yet been adopted, will be allocated to entities and Brcko District. This is another bad message and confirmation, those who want to help us say – no, you can't implement it, we will implement it on behalf of you, so once again we gave them the right to behave as they behave. Because the Council of Ministers as an executive authority, I think we should have enough capacity and have enough capacity to implement those funds that the Council of Ministers has just set out, and I think in one way it gives rise to itself. What I think is also not good here, when it comes to entities, I'm going to say about the Federation, it's not good that when the Fund was set up in the Federation for Aid, that all Croatian MPs in Parliament were against, their proposals were not accepted, and now the same thing, means by that revote we have to allocate these funds, so give, is it, to this Fund, where here we have our own position on which we are not transparent, that these funds continue to be used. And unfortunately, what I don't think is good, and I don't know if it can be avoided at all, is that in this process or this business we have a lot of pre-election activity. I don't think that's supposed to be, this is a people's pain that would absolutely have to be excluded from these activities and really help as much as possible. What I think we forgot about this job, which is to be, to have that kind of approach, and the approach should be called priority, so we need to recognize what the priority is. If at this point it's a priority that we need to help people, then there must be more resources. And I'm not exactly in favor of the only pay solution, even though they dominate this entire budget, and it has to be found in that, through that approach that can be done. And finally, what we've said a lot of times here, when the budget is adopted because of the state's dignity and ourselves, we have to be so wide that we have to secure in the budget such capacity that it has a normally adequate and efficient space for just such processes as this. And then it's called a budget reserve or a reserve, so when you have it, it's very easy to intervene, but it's all on the hood. And what I still want to point out is that, here I am not for this quick, hasty procedure. I think we're paid to do this job and if we need to sit down within 7 and 10 days 42, we have enough capacity and space, regardless of what vacations are, that one more quality approach we make to the budget, and I'm just going to remind you that when our budget comes to these benches, everything is possible. And those who have short minds will remember that we adopted the budget at midnight without having any paper on the table when it comes to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22780	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22781	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to join my predecessors. I think that today we should finish this part of the story, as people often say, and make a decision on some accelerated procedure, and ask the Council of Ministers to consider possibilities and find additional resources by the next session. I think that would be one compromise solution and that would be kind of justified for us, if the public didn't criticise us in terms of, here, they approved some minimum funds, etc. To ask, therefore, the Council of Ministers to find additional funds somewhere up to 50 million marks. As for the relationship that you give it to, etc., whether it will implement the Council of Ministers itself, I don't think it matters, I don't think it matters. Someone's saying small funds. They are at the state level mostly for administrative costs. The budget is not developmental, it's a fact, but in one Germany at the federal level is spent somewhere 12% of the German budget. ...used by states, German states and local units. Therefore, we are not some exception as it wishes to be shown in every variant, that BiH is some exception to the constitutional justice system, according to this, etc. There are countries that function in a similar way only that these countries are negotiated faster, i.e. I think that one political consciousness and culture is at a higher level than we are, unfortunately. As far as relations with the executive government are concerned, yes, he is, that relationship has been limping all the time. But it's not the executive authority's fault, it's this Parliament's fault. I've spoken on many occasions, I don't want to say it again. Look out, there are people in the Council of Ministers who are in charge of a large part of this House. Parliament was not independent in decision-making, mostly. Especially when it comes to important things. So I believe that the future composition of Parliament will not function in such a way that it will be able to make decisions easier with negotiation, not wait for the leaders to give their permits. It is a kind of democracy, but I think there is a way, a mode of making decisions easier and that Parliament, which is the main goal, is more functional than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22782	Thank you. Replica, the first deputy chairman, respected colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22783	Two things, so I thought I'd replicate before this break, but I didn't forget. I can't agree with some discussions, and it seems to me that there was the most explicit colleague of Domazet, that these 7 million and 100 thousand marks are a limit to the capacity of this Budget and this state, 43 paraphrasing when it says that this is the administrative budget. So I haven't forgotten, and I hope neither have you, that we in the Budget allocated about 20 or over 20 million marks to buy space in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar, etc., etc. We also all remember well that every year at least a third of these funds remain unused, etc., etc., and no one remembered that out of those 20 and a few million squires a few million for those who had lost their roof. And no one can convince me that this 7 million is the limit of this country. And the other thing, that in the debates and the discussions, so to speak outside of this room, with some colleagues, let no one be offended, I will use one Serbian word, exercise, so to speak, one position – let's adopt this today, let's finish this today, let's not disturb our comody and not come, let's not interrupt our vacation. So, that's not the real relationship to those whom these funds apply to, or to our responsibilities. So, I'm not gonna support an emergency procedure. The shortened procedure allows us to correct this budget to one decent amount, and that the Council of Ministers will respond to our appeal until the next session, so that if they thought they would have already reacted, because we said all these things that we said today, a month and a half and two days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22784	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22785	Thank you, Chairman. A little when I announced the draft budget, i.e. the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law, means the budget of the BiH institutions, I must say that I am a little disappointed and the positions that the applicant has stated here where the funds should be removed for the needs of the flooded areas of BiH. I belong to a group of those fellow MPs who say they should be more generous, when it comes to helping the population who died in the floods, and that 7,139.000 KM is a shameful figure that we should vote here today, either in one or both readings. So I can't support a proposal like this. I am absolutely in agreement, and here is the final discussion of my colleague, Božo Ljubić, who cited several places and ways where more significant funds could be taken. We are never in this House, no matter what quality discussions we have, the debate, which we have had quality proposals, but it remained here between us. On the basis of these parliamentary issues, we could also make quality decisions to be implemented by the Council of Ministers, or parliamentary majority. Remember the parliamentary issue of counterpart Niko Lozančić, which he commented on, where all BiH institutions provided an answer to his question about how much space they have in the lease and how much they pay for the square. So you'll remember there in the same town, even in the same place, same number 10, in Wilson's promenade, some BiH institutions pay 22 KM per square metre, some 29.5 and the same employer, is it. We took that into account, and we didn't do anything about it, and it remained still, that's how it is today, so there are huge differences, some places are paid at 45 KM, from some of the lowest 8 or 9. In the second month, when the BiH citizens reacted in the way they reacted, we raced here how to reduce, reduce, regulate, bring in a reasonable one, and you, chairman, have proposed amendments to the law to regulate pay coefficients, etc. I've been discussing it the way, and we can do it now if we want to, but we won't, 44 through the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, where we tried three meetings to make those Commissions. We haven't had a quorum once. At one point the quorum obstructs the SDA, which advocates the people and proposes the laws, that we should cut down and reduce the sheets, and I don't know whether, and all the benefits we have, at the second moment we have SDP initiatives, and then they don't come to the Commission, so at the third moment SNSD, there's no SNSD. We generally don't have a quorum of three Commissions, where we could regulate relationships, and when it comes to... and when it comes to the use of vehicles, phones. We've talked about it hundreds of times here, diverse, and we've done nothing about it. To convince me of what I see in the State budget we can't single out 50 million marks for the flooded, so that's whether, you don't need to convince us, when we have clear indicators that we have a lot of money, that we're the most destructive state. You mentioned here, but unfortunately we avoid such discussions, the BiH Administrative Institutions Budget said. We will ask the institution what it has done. You mentioned the concession committee. We'll call them here, what they did. Well remember, I'll mention it again here, I wasn't at the debate the last time, I wasn't in Parliament, the report, you remember the report on the work of the Derk who have enormous receipts. We take it into consideration and nothing. But we won't touch them there, they're our political option, our political party, etc. So this is a shameful suggestion. And it's still a very bad message, which was said by a respected colleague here and the financier, Dragan Vrankić, is a bad message to the countries that were, as they say, broad-minded to help BiH, and we do not want to help ourselves. And even when we say that this is implementation through lower levels of government, which is not trusted by individual embassies, and you saw a very clear statement from the ambassador of Japan who said -- we don't trust BiH institutions, we don't trust entity authorities, we want to see a plan and invest funds there. And we don't have a plan. I was in the debate yesterday, I apologized I broke the time, I was in the debate, here's if the BiH institutions, all those who did the list of victims, that is, the damage. You know, when it comes to the loss of the cattle stock, the numbers range from 900 to 15 grand. I don't know a cow, a heifer, a bull, up to 15 grand. I mean it's different information, it's a very bad message. And here, I'll be on the side of those colleagues who won't support a shortened procedure or this amount. I think it should be at least five times more, but let's sit down for this budget, so we'll find very quickly, not just with these items where our members of the Presidency have found, or found, but with other items where we're going to end this very quickly and that amount will be much, much greater than proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22786	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22787	Well, it's very short. With the full respect of what counterpart Jurišić said, it is not accurate information that the SNSD is obstructing the work of the Administrative Commission, because on several occasions, it knows exactly when it is called upon and for whom it has been postponed. We were asked only on the day when a session of the highest party leadership was scheduled, in which we both played by chance and by Mr. Živković, we said that we couldn't. And before that, and later and now, from this evening forward at any time of day and time, as far as the Administrative Commission is concerned. But that's the consequence of 45 facts that you haven't talked about who's blocking everything in the House of Peoples the law that we've promoted here and were his advocates, who's blocked the constitutional amendment in the House of Peoples so there's no law and everything else that's blocked there. And it's not excluded that this budget isn't blocked there either. As a result, people from the House of Nations do not allow one brutal way to adopt those decisions. It's theirs now, but it means, as far as we're concerned, a public call for the Administrative, here from tonight on out at any time of day, time and space, as far as we're concerned, and the decision on the Administrative Commission is concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22788	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22789	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I want to say my opinion, so I can help us here at Parliament and the club, in which direction we can plead. First of all, the finding that 7 million is very little, and that's what we've all realized here is that it does everything below 1% of the total budget, and we don't think that's enough. But when I researched and questioned how it happened, the finance gentlemen said it was barely over. There is no agreement for greater separation for various reasons. So I'm afraid if we don't accept today and this proposal today that the citizens who died in these floods will get nothing. A new session, at first, etc., I think that the time will pass, just as we make the decision, will pass the construction season and the mass of these people will not be able to use those funds to return and move back into their facilities. But it may be closest to the proposal, and before I say that those who accuse the Presidency here that the Presidency is wrong, do not prepare this Presidency, it proposes and prepares the Ministry of Finance rather than the Presidency. Therefore, it is not necessary to say that it is the people who are to blame that this has not been brought before. I am closest to the proposal, and the position of the SNSD will be busy at the Club, that this is going into procedure today, and that with an additional conclusion, it is said that an additional 30 million is being allocated on the basis of grants from grenades that will not be realised in this year, and we know that in certain ministries there are these grants, such as the Refugee Ministry, that there is no way that this year, and the capital investment funds, which we know for sure will not be realised in this year. So an additional 30 million to be found, to propose such a proposal by the next meeting of the Council of Ministers. Perhaps it would be one of the better and better solutions in part of the unused funds and those that will not be used in this year. But, I say, the SNSD MPs' position will be taken, and that's how we'll behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22790	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22791	Thank you. 46 I just want to say that, regardless of who is guilty and whether anyone is guilty, the Presidency or anyone, whoever makes this decision will be guilty of the citizens. Is that us? We are the ones who cast our vote and vote for it. I must say that I am disappointed after an extended college that three parties will support, will be the majority to accept such a... It's human disappointment, disappointment and an inadequate attitude towards the citizens. The easiest thing to do is not come here, it's the easiest thing to do is not hear this discussion and say I'm pulling right away and giving in the procedure of the second proposal, it's the easiest thing to do is to raise your hands, accept 7 million and be, I say, on the side of those who say you will, or you won't, and not have enough feelings, not have enough insight into all the needs of the citizens for what they have. Two and a half months will wait for this to come to the table and we don't have time for seven days to, at least in seven days, do something quality and improve this part. Where's our responsibility? When we're in charge of this country, then we don't ask the citizens, but we impose on these citizens on them and the question is, how much is an absolute citizen informed? When citizens need to collect what they have right, and today I mentioned this buški Lake where it is lost safely at an annual level of about 7 million marks, and for 3 years I have been talking here in Parliament about the Bus Lake where the minimum part is obtained, where citizens need to get 7 million marks for compensation and the use of a hydroaccumulation lake. For two years, I've been saying that I'm sure 50 to 100 million a year can be swept up on drugs inside BiH. We're not able to do that either, to reduce this burden on the citizens. And thirdly, until two years later, we didn't get an absolute analysis of where 550 million were spent to build health facilities... he didn't ask anyone, in fact, where, no matter how much, no prices went. So, we owe the citizens we can, we can challenge their right to charge the part that they can or to squander the part that they pay themselves, and when they need to be given part of the budget to the threatened, and I repeat it again is 1/4 to 1/3 of the people who are threatened in BiH, give them 7 million, that's embarrassing, that's humiliating. And I think it should be in this, and it's our suggestion that this is going to be reconsidered, if first reading is to be done today, that we go to a second reading with amendments and that this amount is at least 5% of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22792	Thank you. No more reports, and I'm closing the hearing. I remind my colleagues and colleagues that we have a brief discussion on the 5th and the replicas for 2 minutes. Next is point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Framework Law on facilitating the employment of persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Niko Lozančić, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, children's rights, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 07.04.2014 with an urgent request for consideration. After the House has not adopted an emergency procedure application as well as a proposal for a shortened procedure, the draft law shall be considered in accordance with the basic legislative procedure. The Constitutional Foundation's Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 01.07.2014. The responsible Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and 47 ethics The opinion on principles was delivered on 17 July. The opinion is negative, the Commission did not support the principles of the bill. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22794	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope you'll allow me to speak as a legislator in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and then possibly, if necessary, and for...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22795	You know the Rules of Procedure well.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22796	That's in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22797	Only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22798	Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, you today have one, as I have said several times these days, a very likable bill unlike some who come to us in the procedure, a proposal that many have already declared to be likable to them, so don't think I gave him that epithet. So, this Law refers to young people in BiH who, according to official statistics and the Agency for Labour and Employment in BiH, have over 300 thousand unemployed or in percentages over 50% of the total number of unemployed in BiH. They like this bill. This bill, to remind you, provides for the exemption of employers from paying any taxes and contributions from salaries and wages, i.e. simplifiedly predicts that young people are paid net wages without paying any contributions, and that those from 28 to 35 years of age are reduced by 50%. I also spoke in preparation for this Law after it was published on Parliament's pages and with most of those called employers in BiH. And they like this bill. I must say that in previous discussions there were certain dilemmas, but here I am glad that the Constitutional Commission has nevertheless established that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law. And to be honest, I didn't expect that the commission that has in its name the concepts of human rights, which in its name has young people, which in its name has ethics, that the Committee that deals with all these issues, youth issues, ethics issues, human rights issues, for a wonderful miracle to them this Law will not be likable. But if I weren't to make a mistake in my soul, not to be incorrect to my colleagues, most colleagues also pleaded within that commission that the law was nice to them. However, because of the decision-making methods in the Committee and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have no objections, 5 colleagues and colleagues were for the principles of this Law, 2 colleagues and colleagues, two were not for the principles of this Law. It's interesting to me because some of them have also said that the proposals in this Law are nice to them both as people, as politicians, and as parents, but for some other reasons I can't support the principles of this. 48 I know there was an earlier debate, so I have to, here's a chance just to remind you, since this law, unlike the budget, has been for three months, three and a half months in the procedure, so many may have forgotten the content... that has been given. I'm not. There have been comments that this would have a significant impact on the reduction of public funds, which is absolutely not true, because those to whom the law applies today do not pay any taxes and contribute because they do not have from where they do not have... because they are not employed. Only if the state pays health insurance contributions to them from those of the others it collects. So they don't have a chance to earn anything and they don't pay anything, only here is that this contribution of health insurance, paid through funds, the Employment Service, they produce as a cost. So, if we hired them and started paying them wages, they would automatically increase spending in BiH, which would also increase VAT-based revenues. It is not true, then, that income would be reduced, but even increased to a certain extent. I have to say, uh, why am I still trying this law, what one colleague said, and as a parent, and as a man, and as a politician, and like, I don't know what else, trying to figure out if there's anyone who can be against this bill? This Law, though, is not intended for children of political and other officials because these children are mostly taken care of. They take their dads and moms by the hand and they get accepted regardless of the years, regardless of the experience, regardless of the expertise, and interestingly, mostly in prestigious public enterprises where wages are much better than in the real sector and in public institutions, in public institutions, you all know about these cases. So I'm trying to, uh, try to find the reasons in that fact -- maybe people don't feel that troublesome enough because they -- they've already solved it. But we... institutions are not only to take care of our children, so we have a commitment to other children in this country, we have a obligation and a moral, and human, and parental, and political, and whatever you want, that and children whose dads and moms are not political officials, we have a duty and a moral, and human, and parental, and political, and that we allow them to at least a few years of work experience to be acquired before they get years to retire. I expect you will support the bill's proposal, or you will be against the Commission's negative opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22799	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22800	Mr. Chairman. So, here I'm just going to take a few of those atmospheres out of this Joint Commission. So, it's true that all of us who were at the session when we were discussing each other were stating that this is a good proposal, that this is something we need and that we should have this in BiH, but then we're stuck on our -- jurisdiction, attitudes of the lower ones, this, as it is called, entity, canton, etc. I came forward for a reason to say that, therefore, we had a good debate, we had a good debate, we only lacked one vote that we could discuss here today and that we could enter the first, in the first reading, adopt this Law. So, I would ask you today to reject this negative opinion and give more space to some agreement, to some agreement, and I believe that in one small, more quality contact with entities, a quality solution that should actually be explained that this is about framework law, and that everything that is the jurisdiction of lower levels in BiH will be preserved and that it will be regulated in the best possible way, and that... when we solve this in the first reading, when we enter into the next, as it is called, in the next step, that we can solve that part in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22801	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22802	Here, my colleague Šepić helped me a little bit, because I had an intention, discussing the Opinion, because we are practically discussing the Opinion, so he helped me a little bit, and he tried to explain why some of the members of the Commission were against this Law, because in the explanation here in the Commission's report, it said that the members of the Commission who voted against the proposal at the session themselves would give an argument, and then we could discuss these arguments. I can only guess from what Mr. Šepić was talking about, my colleague Šepić said that the disputed jurisdiction, etc., but I have the belief that the promoter knows perfectly what is whose jurisdiction and therefore he started with the framework law. And it is certain that there is a possibility in this article that determines certain rates etc. It could also be arranged in some ways only to create frameworks and leave it to entities that, according to their own policies, they regulate these things. So I think we should return this opinion today and try to give some guidance in some way. So, I, in some ways, suggest that the Proposer open the space, so in these parts where it is fixed, where the rates, or percentages of release, etc., are fixed, to leave the box and decide whether entities decide to do so. I have not heard any other arguments which were the reason to vote against this law. We had a conference here in early July where, the recommendation was and the calls to act in this direction absolutely very clear and concrete. And finally, read it, I believe that you have read it, but here's who's not by accident, who skipped, and the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration reminds us in a very brief way what Europe is doing on this plan in the direction of youth employment. Here, to conclude, so we will absolutely be against the Commission's negative opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22803	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22804	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is all kind of rainy for me. This is about a very strange situation. Why, somehow, before this election, one such legal proposal again. Don't be mad. I have to mention it. We started to deal with it as a state since the end of those unfortunate war events. And then there was a job for young people, and then there was a lot of them. Those who were supposed to be employed, yet not, are now over 40 years old, and are no longer young, yet they have no business. 50 I'm worried about another situation. The latest statistics for BiH have been officially reported to all BiH employment institutions for around 560,000 unemployed. More than 50% of them are young. Now I ask you, regardless of the nice ideas, on the nice suggestions, on the nice desires, reality is something else, and reality is in this – you can promise employers whatever you want and whatever you want, give them the benefits that you think they need to hire young people. But the problem is crucial in all of BiH, not just for young people, where to hire this huge army of young experts, where? The companies are closing today. Instead of new employment, you have a growing number of strikes, instead of even more companies, you have closed and sold-out companies. So where do you people promise these young people they'll get a job, no matter why... after all, why? Where are you going to hire over 250,000 young people, where? Don't let people get involved with that sort of thing. And if it's for political elections, and it's too much, really too much. And it's time to end it. Let's leave this for some quieter times and those who will remain, I know that many will stay in these chairs where they are sitting, let them think very carefully at the beginning whether they really need to create conditions for our youth coming every year, one generation of young people, minors, turns into minors, ends in secondary education and higher education every year. And again, I ask the crucial question – where? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22805	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22806	Thank you, Chairman. I have read this law several times since it has already been read on the benches, article by article and I think that the idea and intention of the motionor, Mr. Niko Lozančić, is very correct and has come from the depths of the soul,... this Law, which, unfortunately, at the end of the term of this House. Maybe this should've come a long time ago, so maybe we could have a little bit of a different conversation about this. I think that in any case this is an extraordinary proposal, this is something that will allow all those working in the real sector to employ young and professional people without fear of having to make huge contributions for them, and these contributions again to individual administrations – state, entity, cantonal, city, municipal, local communities, etc. Here perhaps some would interpret this Law a little differently than it says through these articles. I have a very negative example of overemployment of young people, whether they are professional or not, but it doesn't matter, it's the Western Herzegovina County where the current government has employed in the last 4 years 211 or rather taken care of 211 young or some other people. From a budget of around 65 million or 67, 74.16% of the total salary budget and the remuneration of those employees is allocated. I was the head of the government of that county in 2006-2010, and then we allocated 57.6% for salaries and fees and salaries and fees were higher than they are today. Very strange, so they were bigger than they are today. Then the current government wonders that it's damaged by the Federation, that it's been cut off from the state, is it? It's not about any damage, it's about incompetence, which, in some ways, has taken away a lot of people's promises on the burden of taxpayers and on the burden of employers. And that's why I'm saying I believe it's an honest intention and from the soul of the proposer of this law who wants at all costs, here's what I'm saying to employers and all those who do business and private, who don't depend exclusively on various budgets, that they can somehow and more freely someone, that the state, the institutions of power, will stand behind it. 51 I therefore believe that this should be returned and not supported by this negative opinion of this committee of parliament and that this framework law should be left alive, without entering, means not entering what are the competences and competences of which. But this can be one real frame, an excellent framework for some at lower levels to start thinking a little differently, because too many and too much money to be used where it shouldn't be. In this case, what I just said about this excessive human care has been spent 17 million KM in these four years. If we had hired, that we had helped the real sector by each employee of 50,000 marks, we could have hired 350 people in the real sector, but hired to give the employer a boost of 50,000 marks per employee. But here, we didn't do it, and I'm saying we need to think this through, and we need to give this a little bit of support anyway. Because you can't talk about young people, what a colleague, a respected colleague, Bašić, said, where you can hire such an army. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the state with the latest census, which means 3 million and 780 thousand people, so back out of it about 10%, it means three and a half million people, just at Munich level or something even smaller than Munich, is it one city, and we can't employ that much. If we take the parameters, Mr. Bašić,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22807	♪ The time of the zvonko ♪
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22808	Here's just another second, the parameters of how many different things we import, right? Here, in the first six months we've imported 65 million brand of beer, by the end of the year we'll be introducing 150 million marks of water and mineral water, importing one 250 million marks... and so on. It's just that we cut it in half, and here's the big army that's gonna get a job. But we don't want to, do we, always say... benches are too strong import lobbys,...interests. So we're not being honest, and we're not being fair to this unsecured population of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22809	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let me start right off with why I was on the Commission against the proposal for this law. The initiative itself and the idea is noble and no one has a normal man who would be against this. To quote one sentence from the presentation of the esteemed colleague Jurišić – not entering jurisdiction. And that's why I was against this kind of proposal because this is mostly the thing that's regulated at entity level, because there you have, I'll just remind you, in RS, let's say a special law, you have a lot of laws, but a special law for hiring children of dead fighters, and then the best students, and there's a number of other categories. So, all these laws already in office at the level of the RS would be, regardless of what the proposal here is about the framework law, they would be put in second place on the basis of a proposal from Article 9 of this Law, a respected colleague of Lozančić, which says that the provisions of other laws and regulations in BiH that are contrary to the provisions of this Act will not apply to cases under this Act. So, not only this Article 9, he led me to be against it, but if I was on the Commission's proposal and I didn't dream of being against it, I say the noble ideas of hiring young people. And even if this law applied to employment in BiH institutions, he would never have entered into force because 52 are not employed under any law here, it is employed under the law of the Amridge, the Daidge, aunts, aunts, some relatives, and work throughout the family. So I'm going to remind a little bit of how they are called here, and I've said that several times in Parliament, in communism – buddy, in this new parliamentaryism – respected, sir, ma'am, and it's all changed in some new bonton that, I don't know if anyone in their mind will fall to print it, and there's a reason you can hear it here in the break -- auntie, whether we're going to have coffee, aunty that you were late this morning, whether you were at the market, how is Amija, how are you going to go home early, daija how's the lady, what's going on with grandma, did Dad get well, etc., etc. So, even in the institutions where we sit, we can't arrange for any law to be applied. And while we are in session at least 10 workers have been admitted without any law and competition in any BiH institution, which are far from this place, because these institutions have been deployed, and we have talked about a huge lease. And they don't care what the price of the rent is, they just care if there's a chair and what to get into that chair. What do they care how many states they'll single out? And no law on employment will regulate their employment. So, to be brief and to be absolutely clear why I was, that not responsibility as something today transferred was from the RS, so we're some kind of remethylative factor and we don't want to hire young people. If I didn't, I'd have two sons without a job, so I guess I'd be worried about them, but this law won't help them. It won't help them either, no matter what their father was a politician so far. Listen to some politician, who respected me, and at the Palace he didn't respect, not at BiH level, that someone respected me, just for work. Therefore, to return, the law as a law itself, a proposal, 11 members, are all there in line with the framework proposal. When I called, and I'm not used to calling, some of them from the RS to ask about the Law, I say give your opinion, they won't write any texts, because the text will stay somewhere, but says to me on the phone – don't celebrate. Listen, don't Slavo. Transfer responsibility to me, and he won't say his name as he's called, not to send me a written letter to say -- this is not in line with entity regulations, employment is an entity thing, we have our own Employment Office. Well, of course he won't write it because that Employment Service never hired anyone. That's why there's a nice notice there - for the unemployed strictly forbidden. Listen to the unemployed, so they don't come to work there, so who else is coming? Now, that's the absurdity of all these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22811	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22812	I thank the chairman. It's a little hard to talk after Mr. Jovičić's inspired man, although with most of the things he said, I agree, and I'm sorry that he's just now realizing that the Employment Service is not hiring anyone, but that it's done through some other addresses and other places. I was one of those who voted against this law. I'm afraid of, apart from what this law requires, the whole change, I think a dead letter on paper is like a law on, entity laws on taxes and contributions, labour laws, etc. I'm surprised that Mr. Lozačnić did not make such concrete amendments and additions to the law, let's say HDZ, suggested in the Federation Parliament, so let's see what kind of reaction would be there. Except for the fact that it's getting into these entity responsibilities I don't think even the financial effects of this law here, says implementing this 53 law does not require additional financial resources. Well, I think that we would be in a serious problem, because Mr. Honorable Mr. Lijanović on our commission said – any employer, private when he has a law like this will fire all those beautiful over 30 years and hire these people under 30, will not pay anyone any contributions. And then what are we going to fill the budget register with? The word is, maybe the proposing's intentions and I want to believe that not only pre-election marketing, were honest, but I think the path was quite different, that the way was to see how much it really is, how much it's possible to do. It is impossible to release fully, but we can give some relief perhaps, but it should have been tried again through parliaments that are the address for it, these are entity parliaments, changes to the laws on taxes and contributions. I'm telling you one example, the other day, one month ago, I actually had a conversation with disabled associations in Zvornik, three private companies in Zvornik got 150,000 marks for hiring persons with disabilities. And you know how busy they are? Zero, all three companies were shut down in the meantime, disappeared, took the money and disappeared. So this, too, I think that we would have had that most fictitious logins again, the signing-up of existing workers, those who work no longer work, they'd have fictitiously signed up for some up to 30 years. What would we have? We'd have a budget deficit, we'd have had if we couldn't do what we're trying to do, even these 7.5 million we couldn't single out of the flood budget, not even from the entity budgets, we'd have a complete failure of the system in fact. So this is really unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22813	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22814	I thank you, and I warmly welcome you all. I'm just going to explain for a little while why I've been restrained at the Committee. The reason is because we certainly need to make it easier for employment, not only young people, but also others, because in this society, even young people are least threatened because they are full of strength and energy and can go elsewhere to look for jobs, but we can see that even these people who are already 10, 15 years old are left out of work, so they don't need much separation. And the basic reason why I can't accept it, I couldn't accept this is to encourage employment, I have opinions and opinions that we need to separate when it comes to the public sector and the real sector. I think in the public sector, i.e. in the administration, the whole state or public enterprises, there is still a need to put more burden on them, even burden the wages, and charge them in the real sector to make a balance and not to account for the deficits in those budgets that are being filled out of it. And that's why I've been restrained and I can't support these principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22815	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 54 Well, many have suggested that I do not speak, but I think that the bill itself is such that the proposal is such that it draws attention, that it causes respect, and that is why I have reported to give an SDP assessment to this Law, even though we have delivered our opinion in the previous phase of the debate on this Law. Many predecessors have highlighted some of the weak parts of this Law. I can say that the law rests on one element which is an element of incentive, but a very passive incentive. So, here, money is not given to those who will use benefits, but are released from tax obligations. It's a very, very wide area of abuse and the predecessors have already talked about possible influences in that domain. But what's the most important problem here is a violation of one law of economics, and that's the law, gentlemen of the U.S.A. I just got the word so,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22817	I'm sorry, I was supposed to protect the speaker, but here's a longer SDA club...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22818	one principle, the principles of the competition. In the same business, two different companies will have very different conditions. If one has already formed workers, the other will employ new workers under this Law. So it's a harsh violation of one principle. Secondly, there's no analysis of the situation in this area. The same serious problem is the problem of the sustainability of existing jobs. And this problem is simply visible to each and every one of us in that many companies are being blocked, they're going into bankruptcy, they're failing, they're firing workers. And our approach is practically facing only one isolated problem. In other words, we don't have one consistent approach here, not to say yet that the operation of this Law is indefinitely time-consistent. How much we keep workers under these conditions is undefined. Therefore, this is a major, major uncertainty in terms of or effects on the labour market, as regards public income effects, etc. Of course, this approach with many can cause great sympathy, but this essentially leads to the unsustainability of jobs, and that is a key problem. We need to move towards solving essential problems, and that is to say first, political stability, macroeconomic stability, the investment climate, and to increase the demand for jobs and then to come to a key issue, which is reforms in the field of labour costs. Work in BiH is expensive, burdened with high costs, it needs to be reduced. How do you do that? That's a question we have to put on the agenda. So whether it's via VAT, VAT increases on the account of labour costs cuts, whether it's for the introduction of some new costs, etc., it's a question that this Parliament would have to deal with anyway. And my opinion as economists, as well as our club, is whether, given both political and social aspects and the impact on the labour market, we cannot accept this law. Therefore, not for administrative and legal reasons in terms of jurisdiction, etc. why Parliament could not pass one framework law, but it is about the content and consequences that it entails, the consequences of unsustainable employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22820	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22821	I thank the Honorable President. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who took the debate, uh, took the right to discuss this bill. I thank all 55 of those who have supported the principles of this Law and have pleaded against the negative opinion of the committee responsible. And here, before the debate is concluded to comment on a few of those, I have already commented on some, to comment on some of the, some of the dilemmas that are highlighted as an argument to reject this law. Why before the election? So, always pre-election conditions. And by that logic we should never do anything. I don't agree with those who would sit for a hundred years in the benches of any government institution and constantly act like one, don't touch anything, it's not the time, tomorrow, slowly where you're at, etc. I don't agree with people like that. And the result of my approach is that I offer, I propose solutions both before and after the elections, immediately after which the home is established is already a pre-election situation, and I'm acting from election to election, here's the third term. So, I'm working without a burden on whether there's going to be a election tomorrow or five years from now. I'm sorry that all those in charge of solving this haven't offered any solution. So we don't have any solution except that they spend 50 million dollars a year on employment and we've heard the argument that they're being abused. So the way that it works now, giving money to a similar, uh, there's abuses, and I know about it, which is why I didn't suggest it. And we don't have any effect in increasing the rate, and nobody's worried about it, not experts or nonexperts, I guess that's normal because we have a nice little bank of pigs that, here in front of the elections, but less transparency than this law, we share who we think of and how much we think of it. I'm against it. I suggest that employers, not being promised here, and on the note don't promise the young, if anyone saw a promise here then it's up to him, I don't think I can get into anyone's mental set, there's no promise that there'll be one employee here, or that there'll be 300 thousand employees. Has anyone seen it in an explanation? I just said that we have, in an explanation, that we have over 300 thousand young unemployed and that no previous way of encouraging, of spending money, that we take from those who work, has yielded results. Let's give another model a chance. And here you give the employers a chance. Whom will they receive, will they receive anyone? If they accept this idea, this proposal was justified, if they don't receive anyone, what's the harm? Who's too bad no one's getting in again? Well, certainly no one accepts anyone. Only today they have a reason, today there's an argument, they say – so you're looking at a salary of 70%, people can't stand it. Why do employers, first of all, in a crisis, deprive themselves of workers? Because it's their most expensive item, so it's very simple. And I say this, I don't sit here in Parliament, when I'm not in a session, I don't know, I talk to people, I communicate with people in my constituency, I ask them what their problems are, I listen to them. I'm no expert on all these areas. So people tell me both life problems and I, as their representative, have an obligation that on their behalf, because they can't come here, I suggest solutions that they think are good. And I will repeat, a matter of time... law, this law can be put out of force in a month, every law is valid until it is put out of force. When it enters into force for 3 months, a month, two, five years, a hundred years, and it can always be put out of force, so there is no fear if Bog doesn't let this law start producing negative effects on the market, on the economy, on financial stability. Here's the only means that, from which up to 28 people have been released, are pension funds. So, the health funds are still filling up, because the payment obligation is now for this category of Employment Service, and now, and it continues to be for these people up to 28 years. But we have, we have heard it, I've done it several times... and we don't worry about it, we have in the public sector debtors of those same obligations that don't pay 200, 300 million, and that's not our problem. 56 So, I expect this one, respecting what the law says, writes do not add to it anything that does not say and interpret what is not written in either explanation or in the law, and are certain percentages. This law is in regular procedure, whoever thinks he can fix it in any way give him a chance, so fix the amendment. So don't throw it away in advance, whether it's a good percentage, whether it's small, is tall, I'm the promoter of this law just until I bring it into the office. Since then, especially when he's in a regular procedure, what's he gonna do, whether or not he's gonna make an amendment, which I'd like to fix so much that he's giving ten times as much effect as I thought he's gonna give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22822	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22823	You wouldn't want to be a classic replica of my neighbor and friend Niki Lozančić, we just didn't understand each other. I wanted you all to understand the point of what I was saying, and the point is that from war to this day, we haven't found a way to encourage the creation of new jobs. In this case, it's only about young people, and I've covered everything. Mrs. Aleksandra gave me a creamworth so I could answer her for what I know better than she does. I know very well that encourages people with disabilities and I know their failure, on the fingers of one hand you can find people with disabilities who have jobs today, and so much money has been betrayed. You understand what I'm saying? So I kept saying that where. Neither of us MPs, nor at other lower levels of government such as entity, canton, or even municipal councils, were decidently working on a long-term programme of expansion of employment and employment opportunities. Look, you have, Mr. Lozančić said two things and the other predecessors, you have an official one, as it is said in the people, state institutions and state firms, and of course what is now new to us older ones who lived in the socialist system, private companies. No privateer who has any amount of resources to work will risk his capital by receiving the workforce without having any capital to bring it to him. That's the point, he wants to hire, let him expand his factory, that if he has a ten-slave range, he wants to have an assorted range of 20 different types of goods he produces. That's why he needs... but that's why it needs to be made possible. And no one's suggesting it, no one's suggesting it. We can bring whatever laws we want, the merciful, the human, what is said parenting and any out of grace, feelings or anything to help these young people, but again I ask – and where should we hire them? That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22824	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22825	Thank you, Chairman. It seems to me that when it comes to the discussion of support for this law, she went a little wrong, so here she is, from a colleague of Bašić, so here's the esteemed Mr. Ante Domazet. When we talk about this employment so that political circumstances must be considered, macroeconomic, social, 57 I guarantee that now in BiH 100 thousand people are working on black, I guarantee. Because I come from the real sector, I don't care about this salary, I'm in favor of us being abolished right now, to meet now, and to get our salaries lifted, but I don't have equal treatment in society with the activity that I'm doing because there are some obligations that shouldn't be paid. Also here, a colleague, this distinguished professor, has no equal treatment in this society. And by this law I would receive three more employees, believe me. I have unfair competition, and there people and these young people get a worse favor than what it is that belongs to them legally. Speaking of which, here's today only one segment we're going to take, there's always talk that there are a lot of people in BiH who don't have health insurance. So I ask you who paid for the hospital, why don't you give me one man who paid for the hospital in Banja Luka, in Sarajevo, in Mostar, come on, give me one. They're gone, they're gone. Tell me him, I'll pay him, here, show him to me and I'll pay him. Which, in that plight, when something happens to them, everyone finds a way to provide health insurance. And I've secured at least five of them, and I report them for a month, if, I log him out and sign up for the Employment Service. So we're harassing people, which we're not telling him that he can apply with a certain obligation like this or something, here. I, I, this is how he says if we can or can't. The institutions of BiH, canton, Federation, public enterprises, they are the largest protagonists and crisis drivers here, because they are obliged to suppliers, performers, etc., etc., is it. From there comes this whole problem, and not here to make it possible, I say jurisdiction are on one side, but this law has a spirit, and this law makes sense, and this law would give effect, I can practically show it. I am the biggest economist because I have succeeded in my work, from many colleagues, from my many colleagues and economists there who,...the economists in BiH, have no crisis, which is a hundred percent if they come out every day, neither do I, from the university at least 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22826	Thank you. A colleague of Boško Tomić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22827	It's not a classic replica, but here's to at least a few of the things that were mentioned here, so maybe we can clear it up. Only 530,000 unemployed at BiH level are the data that says 43% is an administrative rate. However, the actual rate of survey that other experts have at their disposal is about 30% because it is assumed that a large number of people working on black and unreported are. And that percentage of 30 is extremely high when it is assumed that there is no more than 10% in Europe. Where it's over 10% it's an alarming state and it's an extremely high unemployment rate. But this part and this area are exclusively bound to entities. For this reason, in the past 5 years, more than 7,000 incentives have been given to individuals with high professional training who have worked their traineeship. To not only be that they got the money for that year after three years of analysis they saw certain effects turned out to be over 60% of them staying at work. Which means it's one of the most successful things. Another thing that's very good, there is, I don't know if there's a Federation level, but there's a Professional Rehabilitation Fund in the RS, that anyone who hires a disabled person by the end of his working life is refunding and repurchase, the contributions he pays, the employer, means to every disabled person who gets a job. And on that basis, they stand out, they allocate significant assets depending on the company's receipt, if she received a disabled person, then she's a smaller percentage, and if she hasn't received, then she's giving up a higher percentage, and in that way trying to solve these problems. 58 And as far as this health insurance is concerned, as a rule no one has without health insurance, people over 65 are insured, children under 18, employed by work, unemployed at the Employment Service, pensioners. Therefore, there is no category that is not health-secured unless it will not report to the Employment Service or otherwise loses its rights. In this direction we should work with these proposals, go to entities, entities and solve. I'm just saying, I'm sorry I took the time to say -- they're not seducing places where people are employed, they're intervening in employment, employers are hiring, and we as institutions have to create an environment where they're going to be employed. I can't hire people from the Bureau, I can't make up any new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22828	Thank you. Is there anyone else in need? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 07.05. I would remind you that at the 67th session, held in 28.05, no negative opinion of the committee responsible was adopted, and the commission was tasked with in accordance with Article 107(3). The Rules of Procedure make up a new opinion. In 1707, the draft law sent a new opinion, which is also negative. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22833	I appreciate the chairman. I, here, do not have any authority on behalf of the Commission to speak, but as a member of the Commission, since the President of the Commission is currently absent, I will just remind the Commission that, when agreeing with the two different texts, the Commission has also taken into account the restrictions that were in front of the BiH institutions when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excise. I will also remind you of two amendments, namely the various adopted texts, due to two different amendments to the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Commission agreed that in this situation, the least damage to BiH would be to reject both amendments adopted, so in two homes in a different text and to return to the original text of the Council of Ministers. At the same time, even during the debate, the need to approach and new amendments to the Act on Excises that would encourage, or stimulate domestic production and move more towards what was the intensity of this Act and the demands of the businessmen, and this was also the protection of domestic production. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22834	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22835	Thank you. I am of the opinion that this Joint Commission has reduced the efforts of both home and home to create a better environment for those to whom this Law applies. But now if we get this, it's going to get worse, so I think this is a good thing to accept, and then it's going to change and supplement as soon as possible to create a better environment for those to whom this law applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22836	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22837	... this Law does not essentially fix anything compared to the existing situation and this is the Law as an excellent indicator that import lobbys in BiH are stronger than all those who think anything is going to do good for the country's economy. Given the fact that I, and most likely the HDZ Club, will not support this report, so this law should fall. And those of you who think you should, I agree that you need to make a quick change, let them approach the right law immediately, that we really have what... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22838	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22839	I will first of all inform you, I apologize for not being at the very beginning of the agenda, about the way, first of all looking for a solution, when it comes to this legislative project itself. I must tell you that, mainly the members of the Commission from the House of Representatives and the members of the Commission from the House of Peoples have tried to find a solution that in some ways could go through parliamentary procedure for a simple reason, which, if a solution of the House of Representatives was accepted, would certainly be something that would not have been accepted in the House of Peoples, because it was shown at the end when the vote on the basic text itself was voted. And also when it comes to the amendment adopted by the House of Peoples, there was support from a number of Commission members, but such a solution could also be difficult to gain support in both Houses. As far as the report itself is concerned, I assume that you have already learned that the Commission has set out a proposal not to support the amendment neither the House of Representatives nor the House of Nations, and that a practical compromise solution, voted by five members of the Commission, was one member of the Commission with 61 abstention, with a view first of all to obtain support from this Act. Definitely, this is, here's a little bit of a weak solution. It is certainly not something that will stimulate domestic production, since much more space for domestic economy should be found to stimulate domestic production. That doesn't mean you don't have to approach the new law. When it comes to this attitude of colleagues of Lozančić on these issues relating to, say, non-alcoholic beverages, I must tell you that Europe does not treat non-alcoholic beverages as excise goods. So the issue of excise duties is something that needs to be further broader and, with a wider scope, prepared by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I am also willing to support that initiative concerning this, to ask for a new legislative project that will respect the fact that we also have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement but also CEFTA's agreement, and we certainly need to stimulate domestic producers. What we don't need to give up, which is my recommendation to all MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to start with, to open this issue. Do not refuse, however small a percentage this is, it is important to open the procedure and access to certain sublegal acts that, when these excises are agreed on in the future, will be the assumption that laws can be passed that will significantly stimulate domestic economy among other things. And I am also not convinced, personally, that this legal project can significantly stimulate domestic businesses and that there is a need for a new law. But if we wanted a solution, I don't think it was possible to propose it by the Commission, and I think it was rationally done by the Commission, it was not possible to propose a solution adopted in the House of Representatives or in the House of Peoples because, above all, political relations between one House and another, political relations, attitudes, where, let's say, if we adopted an approach made by the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives would remain in its approach, we wouldn't come to a solution. If we are looking for a compromise, the compromise is that proposal proposed by the Council of Ministers in its proposal. What is also the fact that the representatives of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, in my opinion, had one of the best possible proposals, which was a excise duty that would be, on beer would be 0.30, which in some ways would be a more favourable solution. And since it was not an object that the Commission could agree on, because it would be practically a fourth solution, it would not be a solution offered by the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, we have opted for this which is only possible at this moment. Therefore, my call to all of us to open the procedure by adopting this legislative solution offered by the Council of Ministers, of course with the intention of calling on those who are in the House of Representatives or Peoples tomorrow, and finally by the Council of Ministers, to approach the creation of a law that will respect the circumstances in which we will make the new Act of Accises. That's my recommendation. If I need this report on the alignment of the text of the law, let me read it eventually, because I am in charge of the Commission's behalf, but I don't think there's any need, since you all have it on the table. You have at the end of the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives, amendments adopted in the House of Peoples and the Commission's proposal to reject and accept the basic text sent by the Council of Ministers in the procedure. It's the least bad solution so far. Surely it's not a solution expected by businessmen. Here, that's how I would have concluded what I was about to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22840	Thank you. Okay, I'll refrain from discussing, and there's no colleague. 62 Let's move on, let's move on to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Management of Work Contracts and Contracts on Temporary and Secondary Jobs in BiH Institutions", the Office's material for the Audit of BiH Institutions The report was delivered in the procedure on 03.06.2014. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its Opinion on the Report on 23.07. I'm opening a debate. I suggest we put the tenth item of the agenda together and ask our colleagues from the audit if they need to take a word? Ad. Ten. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Telecommunication Solutions in BiH Institutions", material of BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22846	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I am pleased that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has respected the initiative, put it in the process and allowed the working group to present materials and documents that, as you have already pointed out, have been partially and adopted. Avoiding the use of natively sensitive language is one of the obstacles that women often face in an effort to strengthen their role and positions in public space and in public life. This leads to the fact that native language is both a language and a political issue. Linguistic, and I underline that, languages in the official use in BiH are destined, i.e. they know forms for male, female and middle gender. None of these breeds are generic to refer to all persons, and it does not involve all three breeds. A working group established as part of the Commission on Gender Equality was co-operated by external associates, respected experts from the field of language used in BiH, and in collaboration with the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, an agreement was signed by our Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and we from FIGAP used the funds necessary for the work of the working group. Our associates were professors of Bosnian and Croatian language, Senahid Halilović and Prof. Dr. Josip Baotić, a regular professor at the Faculty of Philosophy in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Serbian language was co-operated with us by Dr. Biljana Panić-Babić-Babić of the Department of Serbian Language and Literature of the Faculty of Philology at the University of Banja Luka. For a sociological and cultural review, we asked for the cooperation of Prof. Dr. Enver Kazaz, a regular professor and doctor Dr. Nenad Veličković of the Faculty of Philosophy in Sarajevo, from the Department of Literature of the People of BiH. 64 All expert reviews are provided with our materials. Let me just set it up. Prof. Enver Kazaz, in his review of this project, states – the very lexis in the document and instructions from the scientific uskolingvist views are very justified, and the new cultural reality in them is well pictured. The native sensitive language thus appears as a form which is transmitted from culture to a vertical and horizontal operation of an institution which is also the main legislative body of the total country and state. This brings together the symbolic capital of culture and the main social authority in the joint effort of humanization of the common society. Dr. Crescent. Biljana Babić says – the richness of our language allows for the achievement of language-based correctness, which also achieves language precision and thus better communication. Let me remind you that the basis for this proposal and for this initiative also provide general principles for the gender sensitive use of languages that prohibit such a kind of discrimination based on the legal framework in BiH and in the laws on the prohibition of discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. The best European practices have also recognised this. In France, as early as 1998, the Prime Minister announced a district that invites ministers to use women's names for calling and functions. In 1993, the Swiss government decided that the administration must use language without sexism. Since 2001, there has been a Ministerial Agreement in Austria on natively sensitive use of language. In Germany, in accordance with the federal law on equality between women and men since 2001, there is a obligation to respect the natively sensitive language in legislation and official correspondence. Examples from the region are listed in our material. The latest information suggests that even military structures in the countries of the region have decided that the native sensitive language must be used even in the military service. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe's recommendation on the elimination of sexism in the language states – it is recommended that Member States' governments promote the use of a language that will maintain the principle of equality between women and men and take all measures they consider appropriate, to encourage the use, as far as possible, of non-sexual language, and to take into account the presence, status and role of women in society, as the current linguistic practice does, when it comes to men, in order to harmonise the terminology in legislation, public administration and education with gender equality principles and encourage the use of non-sexual language in the media. Let me thank the members and members of the working group, all external partners, colleagues and colleagues from the Commission for gender equality and the competent committees who supported this project. And I'll finish with Professor Dr. Nenad Veličković, who says – the habit of marking men and women is a bad habit. It has been acquired for centuries in the society of male visibility and female invisibility. She had an alibi in a public space where men spoke, worked and decided. And today it seems justified, but her lawyers have no other arguments than inert. I thank Mr. Chairman, and I hope that, after the initiative adopted in 2012, we will adopt this important document before the end of this term and make it possible to remove discrimination in the language absolutely unacceptable in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22847	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22848	It is simply that I have noticed that fellow MPs have not paid much attention, and I have seen that you are very closely this legislative area, and should indeed begin with this legislation that 65 will allow gender equality. But some things take real time. We need to create legal assumptions, and we need to wait for time. I'll give you one example. Let's say for example. Teacher, she was a schoolteacher's wife. She wasn't a teacher how she is a teacher today, was she? Today, the teacher is just one fine term and many are proud of teachers, and she was a teacher’s wife at the time. So for some concepts when it comes to gender equality, it should wait for a certain time to pass. It is also very difficult to accept the fact that gender equality is involved, for example. Fighter. How would you say that in a female? I don't know, maybe a fighter or something. It seems to me that it is quite hard and that it will not be easily accepted by the general population. Maybe another rougher expression, like a lying cop. If we go to the notion of a lying cop, it's a matter of shape, you know. So it's all very interesting, all of this takes some time. Thank you very much for not moving on. The theme is really interesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22849	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22850	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I thank Mr Bojić for noticing at the beginning of his presentation and that I am an individual and that the Committee for Gender Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has put forth a lot of effort and effort and that we have prepared this document very seriously. Why, Mr. Bojić, women can be cleaning women, housewives, housewives, fortune tellers, and they can't be ministers, presidents, combatants and generals? I ask you why certain concepts in this language are always found what you are talking about, what we are very well used to and quickly enter our ears, and what should bring equality and what women should do to be equal, visible and real partners in public and political life in this country, you say it will be difficult to get into the ear. I hope that you will be one of those who will help us and show that men do not feel the fear of the presence of women in political and public life, that men accept and feel women as partners and as someone who can be a minister, a good minister, a member of the BiH Presidency, the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22851	Thank you. I'm concluding the debate so this doesn't go too far. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Consideration of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of the National Parliaments delegation of the South East European Group of States in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation – Proposer: MEP Mirza Kušljugić (Member of the PSBiH delegation in the PSOSCE) We put this item in the session today. Your material is divided. Meanwhile, the Foreign Affairs Commission's opinion has also come up, which has reached business conditions to consider this material. 66 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Before we move to the 15th item of the agenda, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 15 to 21 of the agenda, because it is about giving consent to the ratification of materials. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. With 25 for, without against and abstentions, the House decided to bring together the debate on points 15 to 21, including 21. Ad. 15. - 21. Granting consent for ratification of agreements and contracts
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22856	I thank the Honorable President. Let me just say a little bit about the very proposal for these famous changes and additions that, here's the new parliamentary majority decided to accept without changing one point and the decimal point. So, you have thus accepted that for one, over 1/3 of the endangered population in BiH, it is at 4 billion KM damages quite enough for the state of 950 million to single out 7 million.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22857	kolega Loznačić, we have accepted that this is being considered by an emergency procedure, does not mean that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22858	You accepted without the ability to change, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22859	We'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22860	Here, I appeal to the possibility that this could be rejected by an urgent procedure and given the opportunity to deliver a fairer proposal to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22861	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22862	Not to repeat what I said earlier in my discussion, but in case it is accepted, after the parliamentary majority has declared itself, in this part of the SDA that it will accept this law by emergency procedure, in writing we will submit an SBB proposal to vote on those 5 per cent, which I said, from the budget that the Council of Ministers will set aside for the purposes of flooded areas in the next period. Now we deliver in writing your...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22863	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2014 pursuant to Article 127. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. 68 For 22, v. 14, abstention 2. I realize we've passed this law. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Boško Tomić's MP. – I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers prepare for the first next session a proposal to allocate an additional 20 million KM from grants and capital investments from the Budget of BiH for 2014 which will not be realised in this year. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 17, against 7 abstentions 10. With enough entity majority, I find that we have adopted this conclusion. Moving to point 4. – Proposal for a framework law on facilitating the employment of persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Niko Lozančić, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22864	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22865	Business intervention, distinguished colleague Mirsad Đugum.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22866	... a written form of SBB's proposal to be voted here at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, i.e. to vote on our proposal to be 5% of the Budget. Can we orally now vote on our proposal to single out 5% of Budget for flooded areas or take a break while we deliver in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22867	You see, it's not usual to pause in the course of the vote. So you've been able to deliver this proposal during the discussion and the entire session's duration to us here in writing. You can only deliver it next time we're in session as a proposal and vote on it. I can't see the reason now, because there's nothing to vote on here, the law has been passed. [[Common discussion]] Okay. My colleagues, please concentrate. I believe everything goes as businessly as possible. The vote just means point 4. – Proposal for a framework law on facilitating the employment of persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Niko Lozančić, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. We're voting on the opinion of the Joint Commission which is negative. A kolega of Lozančija wanted to say business about this law. 69 NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22869	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22870	Okay. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 20, against 17, abstention 1. There's not enough entity support from the Federation. Jerko
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22871	LJANOVIĆ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22872	At the request of counterpart Lijanović and belonging club, we are voting again on the opinion of the Joint Commission, which is negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22873	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22874	Just a little bit, even though it means there's no 10 Federation support again. There is no need to open parliamentary or business intervention now, but if you want me to give you a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22875	I would just like to say, therefore, that colleague Mladen Ivanković could not on behalf of the club, is not the club president, ask for a repeat... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22876	Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that anyone has the right to request a re-election on behalf of the Club? Let's show me the business order. Do you want to move on with the Rules of Procedure? _________(?) We won't. You won't, okay. Now we're going to the second round of voting on whether or not you're in favour of or against the opinion of the Joint Commission. Please prepare for the vote. 70 you can vote now. For 20, against 17, there were no abstentions. There's no 2/3 of any antenna. A negative opinion by the Joint Commission is not supported and is returning to the Commission. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22887	73 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-24-0.u22888	Come on, Šefik, there wasn't a general majority. Well, you don't go to the second round without the general majority, what's wrong with you. For 38, no offense and no abstentions. I realize we've adopted this decision. Moving to point 13. – Consider Instructions on the use of natively sensitive language in PSBiH with annexes: Individual instructions with examples and tables of functions, titles, titles, titles and occupations in the PSBiH Secretariat, material of the Commission for Gender Equality (realization of the Ismeta Dervoz Initiative adopted at the 26th session of the House, held on 19.04.2014). Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 35, it wasn't, abstention 2. I konstatovati we've adopted this manual. Point 14. – Consideration of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of the National Parliaments delegation of the South East European Group of States to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation – Proposer: MP Mirza Kušljugić (Member of the PSBiH delegation to the PSOSCE). Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 35, it wasn't, abstention 1. I konstatuj that we have given consent to the Memorandum of Understanding. I would like to put the motion to vote on points 15 to 21 of the package. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 38, no offense and no abstentions. I find that we have decided to vote in the package on points 15 to 21. Point 15. - 21. – Giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 38, no offense and no abstentions. I agree that we have agreed on the ratification of the contract and the agreement from 15 to 21st points of the agenda. I'm closing the 70th session of the House of Representatives. I would like to congratulate you by performing Ramadani on all those who celebrate, Musliman in BiH, this holiday. I note that the next House session was planned on September 04th. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 5:40 p.m.
