ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4558	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 40th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 envoys, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 4 from the Serbian people. Ambassador Sulejman Tihić, for legitimate reasons, is not able, as well as Mr Ognjen Tadić, to attend today's session. For the 40th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. A request from the BiH Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-32/14 of 23.07.2014; 4. Report from the Interim Joint Commission on the achievement of the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 5. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Telecommunicational solutions in BiH institutions", delivered by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1692/14, of 03.06.2014; 6. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of contracts for works and contracts on temporary and occasional transactions in BiH institutions", delivered by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-691/14, of 03.06.2014; 7. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted by the PSBiH House of Representatives, No: 02-02-4706/14, of 07.07.2014; 8. Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, issue: 01,02-34-1-828/14 of 17.07.2014; 2 9. Giving consent to the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of National Parliaments of the South-Eastern European Group at the Paramentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, Proposer: Dragan Čović (Member of the PSBiH delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly), issue: 01.04/3,03/11-05-1-134/14 of 23.07.2014; 10. Approval to ratify the arms trade agreement, No: 01,02-05-2-788/14, of 09.07.2014; 11. Approval to ratify the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition, No: 01,02-05-2-789/14, of 09.07.2014; 12. Giving consent to ratifying Treaty No 1 on the Amendment to the Guarantee Treaty (which refers to the Loan Treaty for the way of Banja Luka-Doboj, Phase 1 of the project), signed 26.04. 2012 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, number: 01,02-05-2-792/14, of 10.07.2014; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar on the regulation of employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the State of Qatar, No 01,02-05-2-804/14, of 14.07.2014; 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the status of bilateral contracts, No 01,02-05-2-805/14, of 14.07.2014; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the GEF Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, issue 01,02-05-2-806/14, of 14.07.2014; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH Donation Treaty, represented by the BiH Ministry of Defence (Primary of Donation), and Switzerland, represented by the Swiss Embassy (Donor), for the donation of 79forks “Steinbock” and their transport from Switzerland to BiH, number: 01.02-05-2-832/14 of 17.07.2014; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement (A Emergency Flood Recovery Project) between BiH and the International Development Association, issue: 01,02-05-2-914/14 of 24.07.2014. Is anyone answering for a word? Is there any change or addition to the proposed agenda, which the College adopted? Thank you, no, I don't see any interest in reporting. We're closing the debate. Since there are no amendments and the amendments to the agenda have been adopted and it is not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The crossing of the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I don't see the application, I don't see any interest in the application. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. 3 We vote on the 39th session of our House. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 – for 13, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. There's a general, entity majority. I find that the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Peoples have been adopted. We're moving on to the two agendas today, Ad. 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4561	Good afternoon, all of you, dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected Council of Ministers Chairmans with ministers and MPs and distinguished guests, I welcome you all. I refer my question to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Hercegbossan County, which is related to the recent statements made in the drawing up of the 2014 General Elections list, where a member of the BiH presidency as party president said that a certain person had been made a candidate for the presidency member and sent serious threats, and that it had to leave BiH. This statement, as well as many media inscriptions in connection with this, would actually have to be concerned by each individual, and in a special way an institution that cares about both the protection and security of every citizen. So I ask the Ministry of Interior of Hercegbosan County – What has it done and what is it that it intends to do in this case in order to enlighten events, and all in the interest of protecting and ensuring the life of every single person living in BiH? I ask that all of this be informed to the public so that these things are not speculated for daily political purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4562	Thank you, colleague Krišto. kolegica Kapetanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have three questions. First I will repeat the question I asked on the next (?) I also consider the Council of Ministers' extremely inconclusive move not to answer such an important question since it is the security of returnees in the RS entity. 4 I ask officials, i.e. I address the institutions of the RS entity – What do they do to prevent the violation of the rights of returnees, endangering their security and the apparent encouragement of extreme individuals who commit serious crimes against the lives and property of returnees? Second question – What has the Ministry of Security of the State of BiH and the entity ministry at RS level done to illuminate the brutal murder of Ahmet Hasanović, returnees to Kozluk in the municipality of Zvornik and attacks on two Croatian returnees Nikol and Marica Crepulj in the village of Ratanje? Why didn't the institution of today's authority deliver an answer that's already being set up from here in this room? My third question, we have talked many times here about the home affairs of the Council of Ministers when it comes to the lease of business space, and we have all come together to the conclusion that BiH institutions are a very large sum of money, illogically large ones for the purchase of business premises, i.e. to pay the rent. Is it true that even after that debate in Parliament where conclusions have been made to approach a more rational approach, so when buying, or buying space, is it true that the government of Canton Sarajevo sold space to the Council of Ministers at the price of 2,000 KM per m2, and that the Council of Ministers rejected this proposal and that it was ultimately opted for a variant, an expensive version of 5,300 KM per m2, which we will all admit together here that it is very luxurious and that it is very much? Why did the Council of Ministers reject the government of Canton Sarajevo's very favourable offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4564	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. A colleague of Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4565	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I again point out the border crossing between Doljani and Gablea Polje. Believe it or not, the Borders Commission has been unable to meet for two months to discuss this problem of crossing the border to the south, you know that the tourist season is in progress and that over an hour is waiting at the Doljani border crossing. You can imagine, people living in the border area, who have to cross the border several times. The second border crossing of Gabela Polje – Metkovic, which is not approved as an international border crossing, is closed, which is also technically equipped to be an international crossing. I cannot believe that the Commission for the Borders of BiH and Croatia, and I have information that it is not a problem in part of the Commission from Croatia, but a problem in our Commission. These are huge damages, economic damage, because at the border crossing right next to the Gabela Polje border crossing, there is a shopping mall that is closing this day because the border crossing is not international. Who is in the interest of closing 50 jobs and creating crowds at the Doljani border crossing? The also problematic border crossing of Biač, that the border crossing is correctly marked that people who once pass, go on vacation, can go to the border 5 of Biač, not create crowds at the Doljani border crossing. My envoy's question is: Will the Border Commission meet as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4566	Thank you, colleague Krešić. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers. Given the recent, somewhat shocking appearances of very significant international officials, the ambassador of Japan, otherwise a country that has greatly helped rebuild and develop BiH with both its entities and Mr. Peter Sorensen, that there are serious public doubts that the funds collected through the assistance of many state, international organisations, and individuals, will be potentially the subject of abuse through their implementation and that they will even take over themselves and the task of monitoring the implementation of the programme, thus showing a great mistrust with the BiH authorities. And given these findings that should be objectively disturbing us, I am asking the Council of Ministers – whether the Council of Ministers is working or intending to work on a project to restore and eliminate the consequences of the catastrophic floods that would mean that this project, the plan, include mechanisms that would prevent the use of these funds from being used, as has often happened to us in many projects before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4568	Thank you, fellow Simić. Comrade Vrdoljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4569	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I would like the same thing about border crossings, counterpart Krešić points out very often, but I think this too deserves to be asked a question, and the question would be asked by the Directorate for indirect taxation. In fact, the fact is that our border crossings all look sad. The reasons, I'm talking about border crossings in Herzegovina, except for Bijac, which was made this way, is the last cry of technique, there are justifiable reasons, namely one part of these border crossings is completely unconditional for a hundred reasons I can justify. However, there is one border crossing that has been made entirely according to the requirements of the profession, it is the border crossing of Kamensko, however, which is so deserted that it is for... About 4 million marks have been spent for the border crossing from international donations. They now, when you run past him, there's no vertical signalling, but the cops on those tapes that aren't in use, they park their private cars, and then you can't get over him, but you have to go where it's free. The clock has, works, shows date, if I'm not mistaken, 27.06.2008. All the arrows, the ones upstairs, they're not working on that signal. So, he's bossing these crossings of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Why is it so, there the tiles are those gardens placed in a circle, the grass broke out, it's now the height of the grass one foot, no one even that grass that, between the tiles on the concrete. It is one sad look when you come to Croatia, now a new border crossing that looks like something, all of it works, is more modern than in Croatia, however. However, I ask the question, there is also a space for forwarders, there is a place for customs from Lebanon and the Danube Customs Administration, that is to say, to move to that border crossing to complete customs duty at the border crossing, but that for 10 years already that border crossing has been completed, it is not working but all the burdens must go to Duvno, i.e. Tomislavgrad or Livno, to be decorated there instead of in this space which is made for it and that glares empty. So, the question is – When, or will it, why has it not so far moved these customs stations of Tomislavgrad and Livno to the Kamensko border crossing, will they do so when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4570	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. There are no more applications. Thank you very much. In anticipation of the answer to all our envoys' questions, we move to the next point, item three. Just one brief note, without wanting to suggest anything and reduce the quality of the debate. Our wish at the College was to try to work today so that we can do the juma, until the religious ceremony to finish this session if we succeed, so here, I ask everyone to contribute to such an act if possible, if not. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Request of the BiH Presidency to consider draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-32/14 of 23.07.2014 You received a request from the BiH presidency to discuss the bill. The House of Representatives shall, in a hurry procedure, comply with Article 122. At the 70th session held yesterday, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives accepted a request to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions. I'm opening a debate. So we'll discuss the urgency of the procedure first. I don't see any charges for the hearing, I don't see any interest in the application. Thank you very much. We are voting on the procedure, so whether or not the draft law will be considered by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. At present 13 - for 12 and 1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general and ethnic majority. I find this request accepted. Thank you very much. 7 I am opening a debate on the bill. Who's answering for a word? I can't see the report. It's of interest. Comrade Raguž, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4572	I thank you, Mr. President, for your warm welcome. In this proposal that we have received in Article 3a, which you are actually adding, in accordance with Article 3(3), is set out in paragraph 3. – That the funds referred to in this paragraph of 7139.000 KM will be made available to the governments of entities and the Government of the Brcko District in accordance with the allocation criteria set out by the BiH Council of Ministers by a special decision. So I'm just curious whether these criteria are established, when and when will this special decision be made, because it is very important for the support of this Law and for a transparent relationship with all areas affected by the floods? So if we can get an answer, I think it would be useful, by the Council of Ministers, I think that would further, mean to strengthen our support for this law in this way that it was proposed by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4573	Thank you very much. kolega Ivanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4574	I think yesterday in public it was said enough that this amount of funds is small, and I also share that opinion and, starting with that, of that thing, I think it's really too small an amount, I won't be for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4575	Thank you, fellow Ivanic. Word has a colleague, Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4576	Well, here's an esteemed colleague just for a little while, because we said we wouldn't discuss this too much, but, of course, we all contribute, since we talked about this whole thing at the College. There are a lot of reasons why we should be against this law, but I will personally vote for only one reason, since yesterday the House of Representatives adopted this and if we are against today, we don't have that 7 million in division and time passes, those who are flooded, for whom we've all been so heartily in favour for the past few months, have stayed aside waiting for our agreements. So that's the only reason why I'm going to raise my hand today so that even these seven million by the criteria they're going to do, who's going to do it on behalf of the Council of Ministers, they're still going to be at the disposition of people who are flooded. Thank you very much. I don't see the debate anymore, I don't see any interest in the debate. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. 8 We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014, following a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 - for 11, v. 1, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 abstention. RS – 3 for, 1 against. We have a general and entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2014 has been adopted. Thank you very much. We're going to the fourth item of today's agenda, Ad. 4. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on the achievement of the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at the 37th session, held on 29 April, passed the Law amending and supplementing the Taxation Act in BiH with one repair. At the 57th session of 20.11. last year, the House of Representatives adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Excise Taxation Act with an amendment. Since the Law was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples appointed the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law where they were colleagues Krišto, colleagues Košarac and colleagues Bradarić. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the law at the meeting held on 23 July of this year has reached agreement under the same text of the law and has drawn up a report on which we are to be heard. The Joint Commission has rejected both amendments and is proposing to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt this Report and adopt the single text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excise Taxation in BiH in the text in which the Committee proposes it. At the 70th session held on 24 July, the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of the same text. I give my word to my colleague Krišto if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4578	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4579	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There is no registration, no interest in the application, colleague Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4580	Ladies and gentlemen. I have a need to comment on what has been done by the Committee for the Consensation of Texts, various texts of the Law adopted in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. It is clear, and what the president said, that the texts are different, one amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, 9 others was adopted in the House of Peoples and the Committee instead of agreeing to these different texts, rejects one and the other amendment, and I don't think that the Committee has done its job properly. So today, we need to make a statement about the fundamental law, I will support this fundamental law only because it is less evil than it is to bring down the law completely. So, instead of agreeing to these two different texts and in some way prefers domestic production, the Commission did, they couldn't agree, so they also rejected the amendment from the House of Peoples and the amendments from the House of Representatives. And I think that as soon as possible, should this convocation at the next session or the next one, that this law should be corrected. So I'm just going to vote for closure because it's less evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4581	Thank you. There's no more discussion, I can't even see the application. kolegica Kapetanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4582	I'll be very brief. I will repeat what I said in the debate and the submission of amendments. It is incomprehensible that we who represent BiH citizens, and therefore workers working in the domestic industry, are not interested in protecting 500 jobs and are not interested in protecting the domestic brewery industry. It's just incomprehensible. The arguments that existed by the European Commission that we are thus opposing the EU and the European Commission's views, I have said it last time, and I want to say now, are not binding on BiH because it still has no candidate status or EU member status, and I recall that Slovenia and Croatia, which are EU members, are EU requirements, when it comes to domestic beer production, do not respect even though they are EU members. I don't know, I'm sorry about why this kind of thing happened on the Conformity Commission of those two amendments. On the other hand, I regret the fact that we who are full of BiH's mouth, domestic production, our workers, our home brand, are unable to protect these people who produce our home brand, us as users. And I can't understand that we've brought ourselves into this situation that one very well-intentioned amendment, both one and the other that ultimately intended to win a good result, that the Commission couldn't agree. So, I'm just as Mr. Krešić said, just for the reasons that he stated I'll support the law, but I think as soon as possible, the law has to be completely changed. And I don't think it's right for the European chemistry to train its strictness in BiH, and it is not in the condition that EU members Croatia and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4583	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. We're closing the debate, thank you very much. We are voting on the report of the Interim Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of the same text of the Law. Please initiate procedure, thank you. Thank you. At present 13 - for 12 and 1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 abstention. RS – 4 for. We have a general, entity majority. 10 I establish the Report of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on the achievement of the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Excise Taxation Act in BiH was adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving to the point of five today's agenda, Ad. 5. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Telecommunicational solutions in BiH institutions", delivered by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-692/14, of 03.06.2014. You have received the Report from the Committee on Finance and Budget adopted by this Report, the Commission adopted the following conclusion, and proposes to the House to adopt it: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the Council of Ministers and Institutions of BiH, which are covered by the Impact Review Report, to report within 6 months to the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly on the planned and undertaken activities in the implementation of the recommendations from the Report, and to inform the Office for Auditing the Institutions of BiH. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at the 70th session yesterday. I'll give the word to the Reporter if there's any need. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. I don't have a report, I don't see any interest in the application, we're closing the hearing. Thank you very much. We vote on the Report with the recommendations contained in the Report. Thank you. Attending 13 – for 13, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. I agree on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Telecommunication solutions in BiH institutions" with recommendations contained in the report was adopted. Now please initiate the voting procedure for the conclusion I read, the conclusion of the commission. Thank you. Attending 13 – all for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I am finding the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples has been adopted. We're going to the six-day agenda, Ad. Six. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of contracts for works and contracts on temporary and occasional transactions in BiH institutions", delivered by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-691/14, from 03.06.2014.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4586	So very briefly, and I really think that these reports of impact revisions that we've been getting lately are very correct done, and I really think there's one, one document that needs to be read very carefully, I just hope it doesn't stay a dead letter on paper. Somewhere there are suggestions made from them, based on them, and that they will be applied. I have to, I really think it's done correctly, indifferently, without any fuss, without anything very, very essential to me quality and well, and I think it's really serious documents and that the Office deserves, the Office for Auditing that in this sense a little bit here and commend them.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4587	I join myself, not to take a special word, to praise what the Office of Audit and our commission do with them. There are no more applications, I don't see any interest in the application. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We vote on the Report with the recommendations contained in the Report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. 13 Present – 13 for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I agree on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of work contracts and contracts on temporary and occasional transactions in BiH institutions" with recommendations contained in the report was adopted. And now please initiate voting procedure for the conclusion of the Finance and Budget Committee. Thank you. 13 Present – 13 for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I am finding the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples has been adopted. 12 We move to the next, seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, delivered by the PSBiH House of Representatives, No: 02-02-4706/14, of 07.07.2014. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Commission has adopted the proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH institutions, and is proposing to the House to accept this act, vote and finally decide on it in one vote, because it is a single act that is being discussed and adopted at the same time. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4589	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4590	Thank you very much. I'll give the word to the proposer if there's any need. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I don't see the application, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in line with the proposal of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. 13 present – all for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I find amendments and additions to the Single Rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions have been adopted. Thank you. We're moving on to the eight-day agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, issue: 01,02-34-1-828/14 of 17.07.2014. The Joint Commission has delivered to us, it has in fact established a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH and has decided to refer to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. The House of Representatives adopted a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH at the 70th session of 24/07. You have received a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision establishing the BiH Council of National Minorities to be declared today. 13 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We're voting on a motion for a decision. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 – all for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I agree that we adopted a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH. Thank you. We're going to the point of today's nine agenda, Ad. Nine. Giving consent to the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of the National Parliaments of the South-Eastern European Group of States in the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, Proposer: Dragan Čović as a member of the PSBiH delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 01,04/3,03/11-05-1-134/14 of 23.07.2014.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4593	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4594	Thank you very much, as in the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest. We're closing the debate. Thank you. We are voting in favour of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of the delegation of the national parliaments of the South East European Group of States in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 – all for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation of the National Parliaments of the South East European Group of States at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation. Thank you. On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement to ratify agreements, protocols and contracts. I propose that we bring together the debate and the declaration of consent to ratify the agreement, the protocol, the contract referred to in points 10 to 17, including point 17. 14 I am opening a debate on a motion to unify these points. Thank you very much. I don't see any complaints, I don't see any interest in the debate. We're closing the debate. Please initiate voting procedure related to this proposal. Thank you. Attending 13 – all for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority, proposal adopted. You have received reports from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. I give my word to my colleague Hodžić if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4595	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-25-0.u4596	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. Thank you. We vote on giving consent to the memorandum and giving consent to ratifying agreements, protocols, contracts referred to in points 10 to 17, including item 17 of the agenda. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 – all for, Federation of BiH – 9 all for, RS – 4 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I agree that we agreed to ratify the agreement, protocol and contract referred to in points 10 to 17, including point 17. We've exhausted the agenda and I'm closing today's session. I'm going to ask the members of the Finance and Budget Committee just to stay here in the hall to discuss these audit activities, so we can keep working. Thank you. Session completed at 11:58 p.m.
