ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22421	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 69th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the Bureau, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as well as international organisations and embassies who regularly follow our work and media representatives. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, the Personal Data Protection Agency, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session, were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by Parliament Azra Hadžiahmetović, Milica Marković and Zijad Jagodić. According to the information service, 29 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following points are added to the agenda: point 17. Consideration of Magdalena Papić's resignation as a elected member of the Office to discuss complaints between recognised management law experts from the Federation of BiH. Point 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2012 Funding Agreement on preparatory activities for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in conflict areas in the Western Balkans between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission (centralised governance). Point 20. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Swedish Trast Fund's Grant Agreement – Project for the Protection of Water Quality in Bosnia and Herzegovina: Water and sewerage in Mostar (TF099534) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Point 21. Giving consent to ratification of the grant treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Komunal Čapljina d.o.o. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to investment grants from the European Union for the Capljina Watering Project. The previous agenda was removed from point 6. Proposal for a framework law on facilitating the employment of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Niko Lozančić, (first reading). Point 16. Consider Instructions on the use of natively sensitive language in PSBiH with annexes: Individual instructions with examples and tables of functions, titles, calls and interests in the PSBiH Secretariat, material of the Commission for Gender Equality, 2 (realization of the Ismeta Dervoz initiative adopted at the 26th session of the House, held on 19.04.2012). So these points 6 and 16 were downloaded at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. Point 8 has been re-formed, in accordance with Article 104a) of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure, since the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics for the second time has requested an extension of the time limit for the delivery of opinions, and point 8 reads as in the proposal. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear counterpart Denis Bećirović, second deputy chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22422	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. So I called today's 3rd and 4th points of the agenda. I just want to say a few sentences and make one proposal for this agenda. We are all witnessing that, compared to when this initiative was launched by the SBB Club, so far, there have been completely new circumstances throughout the country. I don't think we as MPs can, and we don't have the right to ignore, ignore, and especially not underestimate. Given that, I mean, we have a whole new context in the country. After May 14th, Bosnia and Herzegovina hit an unprecedented flood of catastrophic proportions. They have changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in this country, in some parts even changed the relief. I think the biggest and most obstacles task of all the executive and legislative authorities at this point is to mobilise all resources with the aim of helping citizens. So that's the context. Secondly, what we all know very well is the timing, it's only almost three months until the election. We all know the procedures very well. And today, if there is any vote, we know what the majority needs, there may be a later vote, plus a session of the House of Peoples. We know very well that for a month we have procedures, proposals, etc., and it is evident that we cannot finish this job within the scheduled deadline of the election. I believe that no one is intended to decapitate executive and legislative authority in the next three months, especially in light of the preparation of these donor conferences. And the third, no less important thing than the previous two, is the fact that, in the event of a change, either the defence minister or the foreign minister will not be removed only by the minister. It is clear that in this case it comes, we will not say until the shift, but to the resignation of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Deputy Minister of Security, and Minister of Transport and Communications. In the Joint College, Mr Tihić we know he has health problems, we will have no more Bošnjak, etc. Do we really want to get into that position? I have an understanding for my colleagues from the SBB, those at the time they launched this initiative were not these circumstances. Circumstances have changed and I think, and we can only do this now on the agenda, that the only rational approach for the SBB club to pull these points off the agenda, because otherwise we are entering an adventure that can have very negative consequences, not only here in Parliament, but also for the whole country. 3 With that in mind and the need to really think about it one more time, I am looking for a 15-minute break, and I expect the SBB Club to understand the complexity of the current situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22423	At the request of the SDP Club, 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. Does anyone from the SDP Club need to explain the break? There isn't. My colleague Mirsad Đugum answered for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22425	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Based on SDP's request, the SDP MPs' club that was brought out yesterday at the College, and is now being presented at this House of Representatives session, I would like to give a few brief answers to the argument and then give the conclusion. The argument that's been made in this section that it's very important because of a donor conference in my opinion absolutely doesn't stand. The donor conference is the highest responsibility of the Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Bevanda. If the SDP in this section is thought to save the country at a donor conference, then there is a possibility because it is a donor conference on 16th of July and we know that the shift process absolutely cannot be carried out by then. So, there are opportunities for action and work at the donor conference, but there is also the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is in charge of the main part. I would like to ask another question - why the SDP did not go with the SDP security minister proposal during this period and would automatically eliminate these processes that are now being set up as an argument. Warnings that point out that in the event of the replacement of one of the SDP ministers leaving all ministers, I think they are irresponsible to their voters, to the citizens, but in one hand and to the form of blackmail of this Parliament. We certainly won't agree to that, and everyone will vote as they choose within their own parties. There are 42 MPs here who will give their opinion, their position or their vote on it. It is not right for a single Parliament's policy or the Council of Ministers' policies to be personalised. If that's politics, then I think we're going all wrong. Our position of the SBB MPs' Club, if the SDP MPs' Club knew yesterday that today we would suggest that the agenda item 3 be removed from the agenda and item 4 remains and we should vote on point 4, so that our final proposal is and we propose that the 3rd agenda – the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, the replacement of BiH Defence Minister Zekerijah Osmić, be removed from the agenda and that item 4. remain on the agenda. And that within this time frame, in the next SDP session, it proposes its security minister to be elected and again the Council of Ministers could work in the same capacity as now, where two Bošnjak would be again. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22426	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22427	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I warmly welcome you all. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations, I think that the lapus was colleagues with Đuguma, so it won't be the ministers who leave the SDP but will leave the Council of Ministers. And that's the political attitude that you're all familiar with. We tried to point out at the beginning of the session the potential consequences of this political acrobatics of the SBB. And, people have the right to also have their own political position on this matter and to commit themselves however they want, with us having the obligation to indicate what their initiative might bear as a consequence. The SBB has the right to political maturity, and no one can take that away from them. This is an initiative to replace the foreign minister, and we said this was not an initiative to replace the foreign minister but rather an impotent political attempt to run an election campaign. And what's proof of that? The meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission held an hour ago, which was attended by the Foreign Ministry report on the work of the Council of Ministers, where the head of the SBB Club supported the work of the Minister and the Foreign Ministry. So, an hour ago, the SBB supported the work of the foreign minister and the foreign ministry at the same session where it sought his shift. What do I mean? That this has nothing to do with the minister or the foreign ministry, but that this is a pre-election initiative. And all right, it's mandatory to do the agenda, we'll treat her like one, we'll respect it and let's do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22428	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22429	The SBB Club's position to support the Council of Ministers' report, and that is clear, I was, in the circumstances in which it was working. And the SBB, this objection to support or work of anything, essentially we fully support the work, the Council of Ministers' work report. So we'll vote on point 13. A report on the work of the Council of Ministers. This objection is absolutely not in the context of this shift. And this was a lapus, and ultimately it wasn't a lapus. Lapsus is what I said the SDP ministers would leave the SDP. It is true that they will leave, according to the information we have received, they will leave the Council of Ministers, but those who do not leave the Council of Ministers will leave the SDP, a clear message. Impotence in this initiative can be taken to the impotentity of 12 months of stalemate in the formation of the Council of Ministers because of certain positions. I'm saying this is the personalization of politics. If the personalization of politics is the one represented by the SDP then it is a clear message... So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22430	Thank you. 5 Replica, the second vice-president, respected counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22431	I just want to explain a few things that I've been talking about, and I'm only talking about facts. The fact is, and we must all agree, that this initiative is now delayed in July. There were opportunities for this to be on the agenda and mid-June, but we know well what kind of calendar of activities we are, and for such a calendar of activities they voted, together with all other clubs, and representatives of the SBB. So, there's a missed opportunity. I wasn't talking about controversial and debateable things. I was just talking about some indisputable and clear facts. And no one here has denied that the fact that the country is now in a completely different context after the flood, that the fact that we have such a time frame in which it is impossible to carry out all these shifts and get to the election of new ministers, knowing all the procedures that follow. And thirdly, of course, no serious political party would allow itself to be pierced by someone inside ministers or other officials as mature apples. That, that luxury, nobody gives it to themselves. So there's no blackmail here, the key word here is not blackmail, the key word is taking responsibility. As legalists, of course, we will respect every decision, but someone who enters that adventure must be willing to take responsibility. And finally, let me finish, given that my proposal was for the SBB Club to withdraw points 3 and 4 and that the SBB club pulled point 3. I can say that 50% of my proposal was respected after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22432	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22433	We are constructive and well-intentioned, so absolutely, I say, you knew about it last night... that we would withdraw one point, that we would not make arguments that we were going to question the functioning of the Council of Ministers, that there would be no Bošnjak, which is why the Council of Ministers has not spoken of this initiative and given its position, which was spoken by the Secretary of the Council of Ministers, that simply the Council of Ministers cannot discuss this and give its position to the Parliamentary Assembly for the reason that we are in a situation that there is not a single Bošnjak in the Council of Ministers. With full responsibility, both political and moral, and the one to stand before all of us, we made it clear to you last night that we would pull point 3. But it is also unclear why the SDP has not so far proposed a security minister from its ranks, why it has remained in this process to put itself in a position and this shift. If you propose a Security Minister, the Council of Ministers will function again in the same configuration. Responsibilities, don't speak for anyone who's taking shifts or shift initiatives right now that he's responsible. The government is responsible. We've had the functioning of 12, 13 months that we don't have an absolute council of ministers because of certain calculations. After that, we had three months of one shift, a change of parliamentary majority. So after, four again, five months of changing the second parliamentary majority. So after four, five months of re-change of the third parliamentary majority of 6 which is now well-questioned. Let us place responsibility on those who carry the process and who are responsible in this part for the functioning of the government, and especially the executive authorities who need to care for everyone, so to say, the standard of life of the BiH citizen, is maximumly focused on this Parliament to adopt legal solutions and laws that will allow for simply one, one passing, more active participation of politics and all parties in a better, faster, clearer and more quality process of BiH's movement on the way to the EU, to strengthen standards, employment and all that is in the interests of citizens, because we are here for citizens, and citizens have chosen us. Politics that are based on... any blackmail, any personalization is not good, no matter who did them. There's no one who can pull a positive... And we made it clear why we submitted the initiative – that's what the citizens were looking for. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22434	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs are discussing the agenda. Let's get back to that debate, there'll be time for arguments when we get to the agenda point, whether we take one off and leave the other one, so I'm asking you to refrain now... debate the agenda of the delivery of the arguments for or against the shift. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22435	Here, there's no need, you're saying what I was going to say, that it's time to go back to discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22436	Thank you. My colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22437	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I fully understand this message, but of course it's about the agenda, I don't intend to interfere with this pre-election brotherly argument that's obviously in sight. He will only show something that has so often been that neither the big political parties that are full of the state's mouth are putting a party issue in front of it and a leader. And that's why it's because we're doing it because they don't even know what they want from the state or what they want with the state. But then. I wanted to say something else, something that doesn't allow us to be in a position, because of course we have to participate in this, that it's a little vague. And I was confused at the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting, and I did not support the Foreign Ministry's report and the least I expected from the promoter of this shift point not to support the Foreign Ministry's report. It's not a personal relationship with Zlatko Lagumdžija, you can do it on Facebook or there, I don't know, he's the foreign minister, there are procedures. This is where his responsibility as foreign minister is sought. I guess it makes sense that you take down his report first and then ask for a shift. But for the purpose of my hand, I'm confused with the fact that I support the Foreign Ministry's report and after a few dozen minutes, ask for the minister's shift. Only if you don't have the math and if this is the support of Ana Trišić-Babić-Babić as deputies, so in such a way that it... I don't see another, 7 but it really works a little bit like this, I'm saying it for a reason that, in an untimely time, in a pre-election time, what we have, we're dealing with these and very, very illogical things. I had to react to this because it was real this morning and I don't know what to do with this development either.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22438	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, I don't know how many of you there are, but I believe you're here. I, as one of the applicants of this initiative or the Club of the SBB in this House, must agree with the position of my party because we are a political organisation as well as everyone else sitting here. And the argument to withdraw one of the agenda points is mine, our president explained it nicely. Deeply intimate, as a man, as a soldier, as a retired officer of my armija, I remain on what I said when I put up with the initiative, but politics is like that and there are things that need to be resonated and respected for all of us. Apropo's next item of the agenda that should remain is all political... gentlemen that you've made as an argument for Mr. Minister's defense and I simply reject them as such. And again, to say the logic of common sense, you need to understand one thing – anyone who submits a parliamentary initiative in this House is just an initiative. In other words, we are not replacing Mr Lagumdžija but replacing him or not replacing this Parliament through discussions and ultimately through the vote. Parliament will decide that, gentlemen, not the SBB. We're just the bearers of that initiative. And I think the distortion of the thesis, which you here do very easily, leads to conflict. Let things develop, because this is a serious institution, Parliament has the right to discuss every initiative and has the right to make its own decision. What she'll be isn't dependent on the SBB. Don't forget there are 13 representatives of different political parties here, not just the SBB. So much for all that, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22440	Thank you. No more reports, and I'm closing the hearing. Let me explain the elastic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that I am implementing, which is that without voting, it could accept the SBB Club's proposal to take one item of the agenda off the agenda even though all procedures have passed to the agenda. I rely on the points of the Rules of Procedure concerning legislative projects that the motioner has until the end of the debate the right to withdraw the legislative project. And so we can interpret this point from the agenda without voting. I also received consent in the College to interpret this Rules of Procedure, so I would not put your proposal to the vote to remove the agenda point, but to find that the Proposer has withdrawn the agenda. If it's all right with you and no one's got much opposition to such an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure? 8 Let me read now, I find that the 69th session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 68th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Review of Bosnia and Herzegovina Foreign Ministers' Council for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers/replacement of Foreign Ministers Zlatko Lagumdžija – applicants: SBBBiH MPs, issue: 01-50-1-15-66/14, since 14.05.2014; 4. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-28/14, since 12.06.2014; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer: Ambassador Niko Lozančić, Law No: 01-02-14/14, of 07.04.2014 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on indirect taxation – Proposer: Ambassador Niko Lozančić, Law No: 01-02-115/14, of 07.04.2014 (first reading); 7. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Human Rights Supplements Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-20/14, of 07.05.2014 or the suspension of the legislative procedure; 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-27/14, of 27.05.2014 (first reading); 9. Commission Report to the College on Efforts of Understanding on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Home of the People of the Parlametary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-60/13, of 30.04.2014; 10. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on the Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-5/14, of 05.02.2014; 11. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Possibilities for effective work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-690/14, since 03.06.2014; 12. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2013, issue: 01,02-50-19-660/14, since 26.05.2014; 13. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01.02-37-703/14, since 09.06.2014; 14. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, issue: 01-02-4706/14, since 11.06.2014; 15. A review of Parliamentarians Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić's initiative from the 67th session of the House of Representatives held on 28.05.2014, which reads: On the basis of Article 8. Businesses of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, we launch an initiative that reads: Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives – recommends the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to promote inter-entity coordination with the aim of effective management modulation and syronisation of activities in the protection against floods in the Sava River Basin", number: 01-50-1-665/14, since 28.05.2014; 16. Consideration of Magdalena Papić's resignation in the elected office of a member of the Office to discuss complaints between recognised management law experts from the Federation of BiH, act No: 01,02-34-1-745/14, of 26.06.2014; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina L/D 17892013, issue: 01,02-05-2-707/14, since 11/06.2014; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement with respect to preparatory activities for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in conflict areas in the Western Balkans for 2012 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission (centralised management), issue: 01.02-05-2-752/14, since 30.06.2014, 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amending of the Swedish Trust Fund Grant Agreement – Project for the Protection of Water Quality in Bosnia and Herzegovina: Water and sewerage in Mostar (TF099534) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-751/14 since 30.06.2014; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the grant treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Komunal Čapljina d.o.o. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to investment grants from the European Union for the project Water Supply of Capljina, issue: 01,02-05-2-750/14, since 30.06.2014; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment 4 to the Agreement on the financing of the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBiH) – Housing Credit Programme, the Small and Medium Enterprises Credit Programme, between the Council of Ministers of BiH and KfW, Frankfurt na Majna, issue: 01.02-05-2-704/14, since 10.06.2014. We're moving on to the realization of the adopted agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 68th session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? No, I'm closing the argument. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. MP questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22443	Here, Chairman, this is more of a request than a business intervention, since we have a very serious agenda point, which is next, and this is the Council of Ministers' Reconstruction Initiative, I appeal to my colleagues, ask them to submit the questions in writing, and leave any comments for the next session that we have scheduled in 15 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22444	Thank you. Does Parliament agree to submit parliamentary questions in writing and comments on the answers to finish or do you have any other suggestions? If you agree then please just sign up those who have comments on the answers received, and those who want to ask questions in writing, so that they will have the opportunity to answer in the next sessions, to comment. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, you had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22445	I wanted to comment on this proposal. So, in principle, I agree absolutely on both parliamentary issues and comments, as far as I'm concerned, by the end of the term we can simply give up, because it simply lost its meaning and parliamentary questions and answers, etc. However, I came forward for the importance, it was said that because of the importance of the agenda, I thought it was the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. As far as these reconstructions are concerned, 11 compositions, it's become so common that it doesn't matter to anyone at all anymore. There, that's my comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22446	Thank you. Dear counterpart Šefik Džaferović, also a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22447	Mr. Chairman. There's one thing I should say here today at the session, I'm afraid it won't be too late when it comes to the next session, so just give me a minute. So, I know it's not even a parliamentary question, it's not even an answer to the parliamentary question, it's about the rules of procedure of our homes. The House of Representatives adopted the Rules of Procedure new, the House of Peoples adopted the Rules of Procedure, they will come into force and apply from the next elections. There is one provision concerning both homes, which is treated in different ways in two Rules of Procedure. It's about authentic interpretation. We've adopted that solution. As far as I know, according to information from the Secretariat of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the House of Peoples has adopted the Rules of Procedure and deleted the institute. This issue must be resolved in this House's assembly, and I ask you as a College, and one here and another House to initiate mechanisms and to synchronise this matter, because that provision is a common provision for both homes. Of course, in other things, if it concerns the joint work of both houses of the BiH Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22448	Thank you. A kolega, Džaferović, was supposed to be one of the points of the Joint College, but for the third time we have failed to organise the Joint College. That is, the only reason why this question has not yet been put on the agenda of the College to resolve it. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić, comment on the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've asked two parliamentary questions, this one I've got one answer. I thank the City of Sarajevo for fulfilling its promise, and perhaps that is exactly what encouraged my question to be fulfilled. And as for Mr. Sredoje Nović's response and his resolute ministry, it's rainy. You have noticed that at each joint session of both Houses of Parliament I... ask the same question – How much is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and what are the results. I never got an answer, not even this time. So it's the usual thing for me to do for this ministry, and Mr. Nović Sredoje was very good at this time taking care of people with disabilities, but thank Bog he'll be gone soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22450	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22451	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have a comment on one less important issue compared to these important points of the agenda, and I have asked several times when will the Federation Government ensure that public companies in its ownership pay taxes and contributions that have passed over 200 million KM for several years? I thank the Federation government for the third, fourth time providing me with an answer to the same question, and that's where all my gratitude ends. They wrote to me here that five, six years of consolidation, reconstruction of public enterprises, consolidation of mines, etc. It's famous, I mean, so, and I didn't even ask that. I asked when they'd pay particular contributions to pension and health insurance? Three mines that do not pay contributions and health insurance, operate and exist in the area of the Zenic-Doboj canton and thanks to that fact, and they are the biggest bonds of health insurance contributions, the Cantonal Hospital in Zenica is in complete collapse. And when happiness, neither the Public Company of Elektroprivreda, nor its governance structure, nor the prime minister and ministers who decide on it, they live on the premises of that canton and they don't care that we don't have any elementary conditions to treat ourselves. I unfortunately live on the premises of that canton, unfortunately and of joy, but I'm sorry that you seem to have to have from your Prime Minister's canton to pay taxes and contributions to your canton and your hospital, and then you can treat yourself. If you don't happen to have a government saying that without a complete process, etc., the mine, there's nothing to pay taxes or contributions. If that's the principle that taxes and contributions are not paid because of the floods, because these days everyone is taking something out on floods, and that's interesting that we've already ruled out the floods from our(?) Interests so that today we won't discuss them unless we need them to explain some other topics. And I expected that, unfortunately I expected, the same thing that, I don't know anymore, I won't ask any more questions on this subject, because I don't know who to ask the question anymore. But I will call, in this country there are institutions in charge of law enforcement to sanction those who obviously do not want to comply with the laws and who question the health of the people in the territory for whom they are responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22452	Thank you. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Review of Bosnia and Herzegovina Foreign Ministers' Council Reconstruction Initiative/replacement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija - submissions: MPs from the SBBBiH Club This initiative was submitted in 1405 in accordance with Article 143. Rules of Procedure. The initiative is in accordance with Article 143(3). Rules of Procedure forwarded to the Council of Ministers, MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Ministers adopted the initiative on 19th, and we have not received an opinion on the initiative until today. The motions of the Initiative today submitted a proposal to replace BiH Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija, who I hope is divided into benches. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22454	I just want to state the reasons for the initiative. The initiative is the requirements of the citizens of February 07th, and let's not fall in exchange for the thesis of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what about the Council of Ministers' report or anything else. We are talking about citizens' demands here, and citizens clearly asked for it in February and we, as state representatives or parliamentarians, submitted this initiative on the basis of citizens' demands. The changes are wanted because of the overall poor economic and social status within the Federation, as well as in BiH. These shifts were clear, visible in the media, and electronic and written, and absolutely let's not mix or extract any other stuff in this process. It was our responsibility to turn this initiative into an initiative and deliver it to Parliament. The MPs are there to vote on any initiatives, proposals, as they will. There's absolutely no tension, there's no need to raise them, but there's a certain part of responsibility. And I just want to say so much about this initiative. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22455	Thank you. You didn't want to do it, did you? Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22456	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22457	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22458	Well, here's the shortest I can say about the HDZ Club's position on this Council of Ministers Reconstruction Initiative. Our position, we are convinced, is principled and is identical, is based on the same principles on which our views were based and on the occasion of the debate on the previous reconstructions of the Council of Ministers. We think that in front of the political reasons for proposing such initiatives in the past and the current ones should be the interests of the peoples and the citizens of BiH and a much more responsible relationship, a much more constructive relationship with this country and everyone living in it. In this regard, we think that any initiative for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, which is, of course, legitimate, would have to meet two simple preconditions for it to be constructive rather than destructive. The first is to ensure that, after the reconstruction, the Council of Ministers has a clear parliamentary majority behind it that will enable it to work normally in the interests of the people and the citizens of BiH. Another elemental assumption or prerequisite is to ensure adequate national legitimacy, depending on which members of the Council of Ministers and possibly their replacements are covered by a certain reconstruction. I repeat, we think it would be good if previous reconstructions had been more taken into account the need to place concrete interests of the people and citizens of BiH in the first place instead of political reasons. Accordingly, HDZ will also behave responsibly in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22459	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22460	It seems that the debate on this matter has already been held in the context of the debate on the agenda, so I will follow that practice, or I will refrain from a broader discussion, just a very brief statement of our position which remains the same as before. So we simply feel that this is not our job or our responsibility as an opposition party. But I want to point out that the electoral winners, therefore the electoral winners, are responsible and their first job is to establish a government, ensure the stability of the government and that the government is doing its job. So obviously, the electoral winners failed to perform that basic function. Of course, this raises the question of how much such things can be done in the overall political context in BiH and who can do them in the first place. I understand some things and I experienced them myself, but the key thing that bothered me in 2010 is the story of the programme coalition, the story of a new spirit, etc. So, the simple political context was such, and it is now such that it is very difficult to make a correct parliamentary majority that ensures the stability of the government, or the Council of Ministers, for the simple reason that we have entirely different diametric policy options, attitudes, goals of key political factors in this country. And finally, through the discussion I saw that many are fenced around these transfers etc., I will remind you that you were all a bit of composers in this mandate, so SDS, and SBB, and SDA, composing, and now everyone is washing their hands. So, the BiH Party was the only one with counterpart Nermin Purić and somewhat Mr. Jurišić, and therefore four of these men were not involved in composing these 4 years. So those who have debated and spoken bear part of the responsibility for this situation we have had with the Council of Ministers for the past 3.5 years. We will, of course, talk about the Report, etc., but only one thing if you remember when we had a heated debate here about the establishment of the Council of Ministers, etc., when we said that we would remember the 2006-2010 mandate for good, here are the facts to this day in that term of 182 laws, one constitutional amendment, and this mandate 92 laws. Twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22461	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22462	Thank you. Well, my replica refers to this discussion by Mr. Belkić. I have nothing special to add or challenge, but I want to point to another dimension of this discussion of his, because he was talking about something the promoter didn't ask for. That this is a unique country proves this and today's explanation, because the promoter says the following – Mr Lagumdžija is good as the foreign minister, we support the Council of Ministers' report and we support the Foreign Ministry's report, but we don't like him privately, a group of people don't like him on the street and we've decided to replace him. That's our message today. I can understand that, too, but this House of Representatives is not in charge of Mr Lagumdžija's shift as a pet or a non-loving group of citizens, but as foreign minister. And we've replaced all the people we've replaced so far on the grounds that they didn't do well in their institutions. But to support the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' report by the motions of this initiative and in an explanation to ask that a group, which is also legal, legitimate, does not like, is a little bit unserious towards this House and I think a little incorrectly. And that's why this is a unique example and a unique case. Instead of saying this about what Belkić started, but that's why I said he didn't attach to the proposal because the promoter doesn't ask for it, he thinks he worked well as foreign minister and that the Foreign Ministry's report is good, but change him because some of us have told us that. And we expected to get into the story of what he was in charge of in this Council of Ministers and to discuss whether there was a reason for that. I'm just saying that this is another contribution that these countries don't have, that this is the only way for us to discuss officials and with such reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22463	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22464	I must say, I'm confused with the discussion of a distinguished colleague of Kalabić. I expected the SNSD today to welcome this roundup for one reason, on August 24th was an initiative to replace Minister Lagumdžija where the SNSD fully explained the initiative and all arguments stand and the SDS supports it. Then this point did not come to the agenda, and SNSD's Club explained this by currently, here I have this letter from SNSD, that there is currently no majority of the Federation for the Change of Minister Lagumdžija and it is said – the SNSD remains with the Initiative and the position that Zlatko Lagumdžija should be removed and what will happen when the majority who is ready to support and implement this initiative takes place on this issue. So, colleagues, we don't care what the SBB thinks, we have most of the Federation, here's what we do most of the RS and what you promised we did. I don't know only maybe you changed your attitude if in the meantime Zlatko Lagumdžija gave consent to the South Stream or maybe you're accusing him of blocking the State Property Act, and we want him to leave OHR. Maybe that's where he gave his consent. Maybe we've worked it out. Have we decided not to place people loyal to Zlatko Lagumdžija in Serbian positions but loyal, let them be both SNSD and Ana Trišić Babić. Unfortunately, we're not that either. Is Nermin Nikšić, and he was accused by Prime Minister Cvijanović, and the SDP stopped blocking the coordination mechanism? If they did, then I support Zlatko Lagumdžija has changed since then and should remain. I mean, just let us know what happened in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22465	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22466	Since there's obviously nothing since the discussion, then we'll have a discussion on the replicas. This initiative, which was submitted on a daily basis, what an absurdity, when BiH hit huge floods, is looking for a shift, i.e. up until a few minutes ago, has asked for the replacement of two ministers who, of course, with the engagement of all others, have made a major contribution to saving people and also to activities on the reconstruction of the country that are still under way. But it's not the only absurd, there's a lot of them. But the champion of absurds is what happened this morning. So, the report on the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the Council of Ministers' Work Report is supported by the head of the SBB Club, an hour before we vote on the initiative to replace the same minister they proposed and an hour earlier supported it. So that I don't understand, maybe I don't understand politics, but this is just so unusual. 16 This is, therefore, a pre-election initiative, and I will be free to say very unseriously and poorly prepared. If it is a goal, and it may be through the discussion of those who have so far discussed and those who have not and have made statements in the media, not to replace the minister of foreign affairs but the president of the SDP, then it is another indicator of not knowing the system of functioning of the government, the Constitution, the law, etc. To help you, the SDP president is not elected by or replaced by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the SDP president is elected at the SDP Congress. So you made a mistake. You join the SDP and see if you're gonna be a delegate, you're not gonna be a delegate, so you come to Congress and you suggest, so maybe it goes away, maybe it doesn't pass, but it doesn't work here. And it's amazing that the Foreign Minister's replacement initiative has come down to the story of everything but the foreign minister and the work of the foreign ministry. And the only thing that looks like this to me is revenge, revenge for something. And they say those who understand it well, and I have read a lot about it, that in all religions present in BiH revenge is strictly forbidden. However, it is not the commitment of Parliament or parliamentarians, but that is what I am saying. And finally, after the time is up, I fully agree with my colleague Franjičević's discussion, which pointed out the inconclusiveness of this initiative which could be translated into this, let's break down the Council of Ministers, which I don't know later, we'll see. So, I suggest we finish this discussion, vote, we have very important points on the agenda today, one of the most important Council of Ministers reports that the SBB Club has also supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22467	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22468	Please, for the third time I want to make it clear that you are not going completely to another field where you have usually or obviously prepared the topics of conversation. The SBB's request is addressed with a clear argument, and the argument is citizens' demands in February, and that's an argument. The SBB will support the Council of Ministers' report, that is clear. Why are you going back to the whole second front? Revenge. How do you think revenge is, in what way? If it's revenge, it's revenge for the citizens who asked for it, not for the SBB or anyone else. We were clear on the first part, when we submitted the Initiative, told what the reason was. Explain then or give an argument for what is stated in the Initiative. And it didn't start when the floods started, and the day the floods began after our session, that is, the next day and the day before. What difference does religion have now, what does floods have in this part, what does the Council of Ministers report have, what does the Foreign Minister's report have if we talk about the citizens' request?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22469	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22470	Well, I don't believe that my esteemed, inexperienced young colleague understands, although I am convinced that you are experienced enough I don't think that one term is enough for this kind of experience in the BiH Parliament, I am just saying the opposite to convince you that even the promoters don't want Mr. Lagumdžija's shift, that I suppose it's clear to you that we insist on bringing 17 to the field where you can talk about it, but here you see and they've changed their minds and simply don't want to participate, but it's very interesting what you're doing. You do not attend a session of the Foreign Affairs Commission and for a long time support Mr Lagumdžija in his work and his reports. Is this connected to your staff and your boss who was there and that these people stayed on the case, which is our big grudge to Mr. Lagumdžija, who got through to that guy, but you didn't come in this morning and you kept avoiding taking down any of his reports, that's something else. I interpret it so that as the strongest member of the proboscis coalition you welcomed in East Sarajevo Mr. Izetbegović and Doboj with your proboscis chiefs, but you took the task of destroying the strongest in that coalition, Mr. Lagumdžija, whom I do not think he will be an important factor in the future. And here, you've now taken on that most invaluable to train this new proboscis future. So, in your political daily life, you welcome Mr. Bakir Izetbegović in these proboscis environments, and now you've come up with something like you, but this morning, when you were supposed to, I didn't support Mr. Lagumdzija's report, you should know that. And I expected you to come to the Commission's meeting not to support it either. You didn't come to Mr. Lagumdžija's public hearing and you didn't ask him what you said you were going to ask him. It's just saying that masks are falling in here, and I just wanted to caricate, to say that this is all about this pre-election time that even the promoters aren't serious because I wanted to say this never happened to us that the minister was changing because he was doing his job well and we don't love him personally. Don't do that, I don't think it's okay. And on the policies of these and those and other things, we'll have time and I wish you good luck in fortifying that proboscis coalition. And I know you're not gonna say anything against the other two partners but you're hitting on this weakest one right now, which is in the most awkward position and which you obviously don't want for a partner. And it's not controversial, but it's transparent, too transparent and visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22471	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22472	Ladies and gentlemen. I actually want... my denominator who says that the demonstrations of February 7th asked for the shift of the Zlatko Lagumdžija. I don't really know which way and which way you've checked it, and if it's actually only for the purpose of... for you as a party note of the SBB, so you think it's a crown argument for the replacement of Minister Lagumdžija. So, nowhere and no one has ever individually asked for a shift, he asked for a shift of this and that, but Mr. Lagumdžija never mentioned anyone in those demonstrations. How serious your offers, or your Initiative, are, are seen from the fact that you are actually launching an initiative to replace two ministers, and then you realize that perhaps the Council will not, and you did not know it as well, will not be able to function, that it may not even be possible for Parliament to function, so then Osmić may not have made a mistake that Eto Dodik did not warn about the Protocol, although of course it is not his job, but there is Lagumdžija. So, if there was a SDP report that, that is, a SBB pardon, avaz who says someone was looking for Lagumdžija's shift or that says Mirsad Mešić took some money from some loan that doesn't exist, then we actually know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22473	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22474	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Kalabić, President Bosić is out of the country and therefore he is not here yesterday or today and is not in the session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Out of the country, so what will you do when no one calls you again and when you're in the position of isolation. If the Serbian policy is to support Zlatko Lagumdžija today, you also support his interview with Washington Post-u last year, which speaks of 300,000 victims in BiH, means what Haris Silajdžić once said, or what he said at a seminar in Brussels on March 31st of this year, or when that performance with red chairs was made here in Sarajevo, and then staged at the MIP, or perhaps you support the celebration of March 1st and 25th in the DKP network. Now, if that's Serbian politics, I congratulate you on it, Mr. Kalabić. I'd say it's anti-Serbian and not proboscis, it's a drill policy, Mr. Kalabić. It's the new face of the SNSD. And that reminds me yesterday, here you are, last night I met the head of Srebrenica, Mr. Duraković at the reception, and says man – Radomir Pavlović ruled together with the SDA for 14 years in Srebrenica when the SDS was banned and under OHR sanctions. And he says -- there's no bigger drill in Srebrenica than Radomir Pavlović. That's what I heard last night from Ćamil Duraković. And I think he's right, Ćamil Duraković quite correctly defined the policy led by the SNSD. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22476	My fellow Members and fellow Members, please, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22477	Dear Chairman, dear friends. I'm glad sometimes when a business colleague like Kalabić no longer has the right to reply, but here comes my turn. Dear fellow Pandurević, you are worse for us in the RS than for Lagumdžija and all the prodigal parties what you do. What does Pavlović, Srebrenica, Duraković have to do with Mr Lagumdžija's shift? Nothing. But here, I'm just asking a basic question, whatever the proposal is for a minister's shift, people have another session and a month, what do we get with a shift or a resignation? If someone's making sure, God Bog there's fires tomorrow instead of floods and today, listen to the reason, the shift of Lagumdžija and the floods or the stay. What do floods have to do with fires? The decapitated Council of Ministers and we will not meet once or once, and who assumes responsibility to help the people, as distinguished counterpart Franjičević said ten times on behalf of citizens and peoples. What citizens and people? Oh, this is on behalf of the media who can't wait, this is what they're most interested in. There they were being replaced like on a moving tape who would make a statement and the most important question whether or not they would be removed by Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here won't be removed. So what do we do now? I'm sorry, he wants to be replaced. And then what, worse. You're planning a shift, we've got another month of effective work to do, and now it's important if it's being removed. And you're not wondering what kind of policy it was being run, not one session and not one 19 cyclist race, but going back to some years, which I don't want to talk about, and here I don't want to replicate some other presentation of a respected colleague, who I really appreciate, Bašić. An honorary officer, an honorary officer or whatever it is called, or a soldier of the Army. He's an MP like me. Now I'm supposed to mention some other categories and get into some new polemics that are immaterial, with no meaning whatsoever. An officer of honor. What army? The one who fought against my people, against my army. Now I'd get into a new controversy, but I won't. Guys, I'm begging you and calling as friends we have another month of effective work. Let's bring this to an end as a human, so that at least we can show in the end that there's no misunderstanding, that we won't achieve anything by that, no matter what person would be proposed for a shift or appointment. Who will be appointed, in what place, in a month? No one will. And let these people finish this term, and fight in the election campaign, who will come, who will not. My kolegica Pandurević, you intend to do more Srebrenica and Duraković, and I don't know this other SNSD. Your main goal is to take down the SNSD through the Zlatko Lagumdžija. You're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22478	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22479	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Well, I mean, we run this pre-election story unnecessarily, but it's the most vivid of all by the opposition. Here, distinguished colleague Aleksandra Pandurević spoke earlier about what the foreign minister did, and we did not react. I, I think it may be in a certain sense interesting to the media, but I don't believe it. So I don't believe that the number of personnel that analyzes Mr. Lagumdžija's statements in a certain sense are authentically conveying that story, first of all. Another relationship which, therefore, we don't like a lot of things in this story, but I have to say that at a time when your staff were at the Foreign Ministry, they sent out invitations to mark and on March 1st and 25th, they gave orders even to open books of mourning, not to mention everything. Don't make copies of each other now to show them. You're talking about, defending yourself from proboscis politics and at the same time saying that the president went outside to negotiate that we're not invited, and at the same time here you're creating additional gaps and you're jointly organizing this cycling race from East Sarajevo to Sarajevo... marking a significant date, even in eastern Sarajevo and Visegrad. When you talk about Srebrenica and the coalition, I tell you right now, don't tell you the talks where you most passionately defended Radojica Ratkovac, registered, therefore fictitiously registered candidate for the head of the Srebrenica Municipality, who received 1,500 votes, seeking protection and sanctioning of responsible people in the RS government because he should get a concession on some natural wealth in Srebrenica. So don't talk to the public now that this is one way or another. So much for that principle and the story, which anyone stands for.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22480	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22481	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. Two things I want to try to indicate here. We often talk about principle. Some of the colleagues, counterpart Franjičević, and also counterpart Pandurević and others spoke about the principle of work and parties. I cannot recognise the principle of any party in the BiH Parliament for a long time. Because if I were to interpret it with a way that the SDP ignores the interests of the Croatian people in continuity, we'd only mention the election of a member of the Presidency, I think this would be a good time to get that part back. But don't talk about principle, like the SDS is not in principle to be in power and sit with Mr Lagumdžija when they're in power, and when they're kicked out of power, then they say it's not principled to sit with that man in power. So, parties here in BiH at the level of the BiH Parliament are not agreeing from mandate to mandate, not from session to session, but from point to point. We here, in the interest of individual or party, are determined from a certain point to a certain point of the agenda or some of the issues that are relevant to individual matters. The second thing was that until the SDS personnel shift, it was customary for the party's president to refer a request to the Council of Ministers for the replacement of one of the ministers from his party. We have since Mr Šarović's shift, and the other members of the SDS, introduced, in my opinion, an unfairly neglected possibility to launch activities from Parliament, to have one of the ministers shifted to the Council of Ministers. But so far, we've shown that such a powerful weapon we don't know how to use. And if there's something wrong with this Parliament, it's that the world has shown us that nuclear weapons shouldn't have everyone in their hands. And in the political sense of changing the Council of Ministers is the nuclear weapon that this Parliament has here, and it uses just like that, it takes it out of its pocket when it needs it. And that is why my invitation was at last session of Mr. Bevanda – resign, let it be the Council of Ministers in the technical mandate. Why should we discuss all this because nothing will change until the end of the term of office. Well, the worse the situation is that Mr. Lagumdžija is being replaced and left without ministers, without being able to work at all, but to be in the technical mandate by the end of the year, because there is certainly no congregation majority. We cannot find a congregation majority for any proposal coming from the Council of Ministers. So why lie to ourselves that the ministers from one party or another are here at the Council of Ministers... do not support them by the parliamentary majority here. So let's try to get back to what we can still do by the end of this term, so of course we're here and elected. Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22482	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm replicating to one thesis that there are no principles here. I disagree with you that there are no principles. Another thing is the principles, whether they are positive, whether they are affirmative or destructive, but the principles have been established in the last few years in the functioning of both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The first principle is that it should certainly prevent the Council of Ministers from functioning normally. So he was originally established, so regardless of his personal composition. The second principle is that they proposed to replace ministers from the SDA not because the argument was not in the sense that they were doing bad work, do you remember that, but was sanctioned by the SDA against ministers who were doing well. The third time, also when the SDS minister was replaced, I didn't hear the argument that 21 ministers were doing something bad, but the SDS had to be thrown out. The fourth time we changed Minister Radončić, I didn't hear the argument that he was working badly, but should have been politically sanctioned because of certain political conflicts. And we haven't heard any arguments here today for the foreign minister either. We heard about the SDP president today. I agree with those arguments. So if we were to decide today, if we had a mandate to decide on the SDP's replacement, I would vote yes. But the foreign minister, we don't have a mandate, we change, we have a mandate, we don't have a mandate to change. So these principles are established and it's the only principle that works here, and everything else is questionable. I agree with you, we haven't had parliamentary majority in a long time, we're agreeing... from case to case. And, another principle – we prefer to deal with, indeed, this, by entertaining the public, rather than solving the problem of the same public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22483	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22484	Your Honor, the president. Very short. I was talking about principle when it comes to trying to reconstruct or this reconstruction, the previous reconstructions of the Council of Ministers. And I absolutely agree, of course, that there are important political problems caused by the action of the SDP, so probably a good part by Mr Lagumdžija, as president of that party, which would in some other circumstances refer to a completely different relationship. However, my opinion, my party's opinion, is that these important political problems cannot be solved in a way that is blocked, de facto that the work of the Council of Ministers is blocked and that all peoples and all BiH citizens, including my people, would have even more problems and even more difficulties. And certainly in some reasoned debate to find a significant number of arguments for Mr Lagumdžija's replacement, and perhaps some other members of the Council of Ministers, taking care of their work, their actions. I don't, of course, want to open a debate about that kind of argument right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22485	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22486	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues, colleagues. Well, that, I had to go back and read what the agenda was. So I see an initiative to reconstruct the Council of Ministers through the replacement of the foreign minister, which means reconstruction. We want to rebuild in three months before the elections, we want one small opposition party with four MPs to convince the others that this is the time for reconstruction. Many of the suggestions that came from the SBB are problematic. To be justified, not to be by heart, but by argument, so far every initiative, bill of law,...this, today, comes a proposal, tomorrow comes a correction. That's for every case that's been coming from 22 SBBs. None of them went through without any change that happened the next day. The SBB probably saw that the SDA would not support the shift of Minister Osmić, and then more quickly refurbished, expecting to get most of it and at least manage to get rid of the foreign minister. There are many reasons why SNSD would easily vote and vote easily on both sides, but can we do that now, three months when many decisions need to be made. Or should I say what Mr. Radončić, to quote him, say, we from the RS must choose which is least evil, it seems to me that when he chose his partners, he said to watch what was least wrong with him. Now it's literally what's least evil. If your intention had been after your minister's shift and then you went out with these initiatives, she would have been much more convincing. Maybe they'd believe you that, uh, there's a point to it... there's a time. And if you're looking for a reconstruction right before the elections, it's known to be an election campaign issue. It is especially known that it is a question in the Federation because it should be the first among Bošnjak and that battle should be fought. Especially today, we need to talk about when cameras are recording and we need to get votes we didn't count on. This is an ideal opportunity for one of the most likely last sessions to talk about it. So, they're not you, we recognize your intentions, that they are not quite clear and clean, because otherwise, the small opposition party has the capacity and possibilities of how many of its MPs. If you cared about something being done, you'd be talking to someone else, because you know you need the number of votes or maybe you talked to your colleagues from the SDS, I don't know, so you got their support five and then you took responsibility to go along with the SDA, and I don't know who else, you get that desired goal. I hope that will not be the case, and especially will not the SDA that cares so much about BiH, that it will not allow it to return, because the next election issue, after the election of the new Council of Ministers, will be who knows when and who knows how long it will take. So I think it's time to go back to what we're supposed to do here and free the session of election campaigns and do it somewhere else, hoping that when they're in the next session, they'll be in a new session, they'll be more careful when they propose or give initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22487	Thank you. Dear colleague Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members and members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests. So, here's from the SDA club no one's going to discuss it. I, as head of the club, am obliged to give an explanation of our position today on the proposed agenda point and I will do so very briefly. So here on the matter of principle, the question of will, desire, desire, reason, I don't need to speak at all when I just return to this term from 2010 to today. So, all of us in this room have seen and tried, experienced, so from sentences who makes a better offer, who's the preferred partner, to the informality of the Council of Ministers 16 months after the election. So here's this mandate finally what we can't stop is time, so time passes, this mandate passes. Someone said the locusts ate this year. But here, the SDA Club today will support this initiative for Mr Lagumdžija's replacement from the foreign minister's post for its own reasons. So, this closes one round of these shifts and these reconstructions, after 23 we formed the Council of Ministers, and I remind you of Mr Sulejman Tihić's proposal, who as SDA president called the leaders and made a specific draft programme for which we gathered and finally 16 months after the election received the Council of Ministers. The first of course that came out of the Council of Ministers is the SDA and its ministers without any reason about some poor work of ministers, but actually, as someone here today said, as punishment or a message to the SDA, of course on Mr Lagumžija's initiative. And after that came all this that came. Do we speak today of Mr Lagumdžija as a successful foreign minister, when his vice-president as SDP president, as a member of the presidency, as his head of foreign policy, is they cooperating, as they have been working together for the past year and a half, as Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Komšić, who sat in the same party yesterday, today represent foreign affairs from the aspect of the BiH state as a member of the presidency and foreign minister, is therefore questionable and disputable. We will not, therefore, have reasons for this, and the U.S.A. will today support this initiative, and with a desire that this mandate and this year we had in this period 2010-2014 will never be repeated either in the executive or in the legislative authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22489	Thank you. The second deputy chairman, counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22490	I have to say that this whole debate on this agenda, it just gave me the right that for a reason at the beginning of this session, I went out for this pay phone and suggested that both of these shifts be withdrawn. All that was said in the meantime is only in favor that it was indeed today's most rational proposal. However, our people say, whoever admits a mistake is half forgiven. Well, come on, here's a motion for the Secretary of Defense's replacement, so at least we're not discussing it today. A lot has been heard today in the debate, and if it is to be tried by reason as a crown reason, it is stated that one part of the citizens is seeking the replacement of the foreign minister. That's a very clear thing. We live in representative democracy. The will of citizens in representative democracy is not interpreted individually by any political party. He can only interpret as many votes as he gets. The country's citizens expressed their opinion in 2010 on state authority, 2012 in local elections and will do so in three months 2014. As legalists, we need to respect the will of citizens, and we cannot interpret the will of all citizens in this country. I listened very carefully to my colleague Sarajlić on behalf of the SDA Club. I thought it would offer some more serious arguments, but you played a short memory card with your colleague Sarajlić, which is not exactly a strong argument, and this is about the next one. So here we have as a point a proposal to replace the deputy prime minister and foreign minister, and I'll tell you it's not a newspaper. We were in the last session when you were the biggest political party to have the same item on the agenda – the replacement of the prime minister and, at the time, whether or not the Minister of Security. In this case today, a little bit more logical. The proposal comes from the opposition party, and in the past session, the same case was in a way that the SDA as a positioning party proposed to replace its minister and deputy prime minister. And don't let us tell you what was the explanation back then. 24 So it would be good if we had all these arguments in mind, to try to bring this debate as soon as possible, and to begin the debate under the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22491	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22492	Chairman, we've come to an end, so I'm going to respect that fact and very briefly. So, I only have to look back with two sentences on my colleague's discussion, head of the SDA Club. So, as we're used to him he spoke briefly and vaguely, but that's not even news. However, what Parliament may not know, and should know, is that on this morning's commission when discussing the work of the Council of Ministers, and in particular on the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the Commission has been responsible for this, both the SDA supported both the work of the Minister and the Ministry's report. Just so we know here before we vote, so we know what we're voting on. Are we voting on a real initiative or are we voting on pre-election outwitting? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22493	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22494	To my dear colleague, the esteemed Magazinović, so clear, loud and always precise. So, the SDA is a free party, a democratic party, and we can also vote past the club's position and support, etc., various initiatives. At least you saw from colleagues Jagodić, who unfortunately is not present here today, which is a wide range of initiatives, proposals, etc. Here, I said I won't elaborate on SDA's reasons, the SDA, in front of the U.S.A. today, I'm going to talk to you, not as if it wasn't an act of democracy, that I can't talk to other colleagues, because in this term we have a lot of these discussions and principles that you've talked about and the offer that you've talked about, and how it all started. Here, let's just remember that, and we won't be replicating anyone anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22495	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22496	Here, because of the correctness towards Mr. Kalabić, and I know that there are no more replicas, to replicate something to him, so he can answer me, because he's having a discussion. What's first is that nothing here matters anymore. And you're right. Our work, the Council of Ministers' work will be evaluated in three months. What we can't forbid anyone to have an attitude. And we don't want to convince ourselves of that attitude. Everyone came with some attitude. I would ask Mr. Kalabić to apologize publicly to the citizens of eastern Sarajevo for saying it was a probative place. It doesn't matter, I won't be a politician, 25 you could say I'm a proboscis politician,... but it's not right for the people of eastern Sarajevo to call them a proboscis place.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22497	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22498	Who I don't know before. Is that okay? I also thank you for this correctness of my colleagues, Babalja. I'm not taking the movie back. No matter what I say, I don't think that East Sara's probative site is. If I was wrong in the discussion, I probably thought that the people who run it were running a proboscis policy. That should be an exact statement, and I think that's the place that gave shelter to those people who are currently running the proboscis policy. And of course it's not and it won't be a probative place, regardless of the efforts of that group of people to run that kind of policy. So, I allow if it was a lapse, that's not true, but this other one is true and I'm behind this. I volunteered because I tried my replica at first just to point out some kind of senselessness and unpreciseness or principle, however, it went in another direction, because I was just about to say that today would not talk, and we would have something to say about the Foreign Ministry. When it comes to principledness with all speakers, I agree that this is a very difficult subject and it is dangerous to talk here about any principle and almost everyone is right when they talked about it from their positions. The only colleague of Lozančić is, he said it was, but not entirely, when you look at the reasons for all the shifts so far. At least the arguments were held to the resistors that these people led. This is today the first time that the portfolio is given support and politics led by the minister, but they do not like the minister. At least there's an explanation that says that the minister didn't do it, too. Is that true about that, and I don't know either, I agree that the motives, the reasons and neither do I, but at least get into... Now we've come into a situation so we don't even formally stick to each other anymore, but we've crossed over here. And that's what we wanted to point out. Others didn't understand today that even the promoters today didn't want a shift and they just saw the nonsense of this whole story. What has been positive in all of this is the SBB's position to withdraw an initiative to replace Minister Osmić, that they saw they were wrong. And I'm glad. We've said that before. Mr. Dodik's greeting and move was normal in Banja Luka and I'm glad you understood that today. And so it will be in the future, and so it will be in the future, and I am glad. And Mr. Osmić did the right thing. And in the future, when there are other features to line up in Banja Luka and other uniforms and other hats, that's normal. It's Banja Luka. Like we won't comment on in other places or anything. And I'm glad it's the advantage today that the SBB has given up on you, it's a bad grudge for Minister Osmić. He wasn't wrong, he was right, he even had to join in those activities in Banja Luka, as far as these things are concerned. What, when we leave all these replicas and this story of such and such politics, I completely agree that the criterion will be in the elections, and all of us whether we are speaking or not politically correct or politically profitable each of us probably thinks that's the best way to say it. The citizens will happily give their judgment very quickly and surely there will be confirmation of such decisions here and it is our turn to wait. But what I haven't said through replicas is one key SNSD message, and that's what we've said in the past 26 days, I won't call again for principle, but it would be a dangerous message to use the possibility, then I would have been completely deplaced if we had used the possibility of changing Bosniak ministers from the Council of Ministers and being a Council without Bosniaks. That wouldn't be correct because all the time we've been up here fighting for our equality, because now it would be incorrect to take that equality away from others, because we'd just take advantage of the current political moment and that, that would be a message that it can happen to us tomorrow and that tomorrow and that's how it works with us. We're against it. They criticized us once when we supported representatives of the Croatian people, we only gave it for the reasons of principle. What we're looking for for isn't right for us to take the moment to take it to others. This initiative has left the Council of Ministers without Bosniak ministers, this initiative has left it completely blocked. The opposition parties can understand, the question is, who is the opposition here today and who isn't, they can say they don't care. We still have part of the responsibility, and we do not want it if it is possible in this situation to act politically and correctly according to the obligations that stand before the Council of Ministers, which should be done regardless of the election period. I assume that by the end of the term these people will seriously do that part of the work that is far from public, which is however to the extent that ordinary man and our citizens are concerned and that they would not surely put them in a position to suffer the consequences of this because we would decide anyway today. And about everything we think we've said on several occasions in the past. I didn't get a chance to do replicas, I wanted to confirm what my colleague Pandurević said about Mr. Lagumdžija's statements. There was a statement by Mr. Lagumdžija that did not honor him or his party or his function. And that would be commented, but at the same time, if we are principled by Mr Bakir Izetbegović's statements, he deserves evening teats from the RS that the SDS is giving him. What he deserved and what are those statements, are they acceptable and to the extent that he yells all night at those welcomes and I don't know, with support? So I say when it comes to principle there are two, I don't understand the difference between a party and a tepheric, but I don't think even the hosts in the RS understand. It's important to shake, to go. Here, that's our basic message, when it comes to our attitude towards these initiatives in this time and the motionary himself and his arguments today for putting this point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22499	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22500	To be honest, I'm getting harder and harder to support this teferic and party, and the last few discussions are used by the proboscis term, I suppose, are thought of as Bosnian Herzegovic. And it's used in a way like the synonym of evil, accident, bad things. I don't believe that people who use it that way think of their own country. If I'm right, if I understand correctly how to use proboscis as a term. And I really ask fellow MPs to refrain from such a way of assessing their own country and not bring it into context, it's a shame if someone mentioned it and if we did something together to run a cycling race. So whose interest is that at stake, my dear brothers? People ride bicycles from one municipality to another municipality. I'm really asking you not to go into those schemes. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22501	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22502	Well, my colleague Beriz was just a little faster than I was. I wanted to comment on this last statement by my colleague Babalja. So today, here on this agenda point, we often hear conflict and grudges between the two RS parties because someone had some kind of sovereign move or had a policy that could have meant some probossian state-of-the-art story. I think it would be good for all of us to accept one such approach. When I say I mean all of us in BiH. There is, then, no shame in having one relationship in which we will have access, under which, conditionally speaking, others will accept and welcome us with some joy. I think that, not only is it not a shame, but rather, it is a top-notch approach, as we all need to grow in BiH. And if anywhere there might be a chance of getting close or someone, conditionally speaking, an all-Serbian unity from parties from the RS, then it would be good to do it on this patriotic approach. So, and I don't think that this should just be done by the RS parties, we should do it by all of BiH, and by the Bosniak parties, those who gather mainly Bosniak voters, both Croatian and all who live in BiH, so on that principle, we make one of our approaches. I think it's a good thing for all of us in BiH. Because if we believe that visiting one member of the presidency, elected in one part of BiH, is a problem that he is well welcomed in another part of BiH, I really think we are going in the wrong direction. And so I invite all of you to think carefully about what kind of message we all send to each other in this country. I think it is the strength of each of us to appear in another part of BiH and to be well welcomed. Just as Serbian members of the presidency should have such treatment and such a relationship here in the Federation's space, because I think that's something that should actually be the role of these people, and that should be the policy that we all need to affirm here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22503	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22504	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the esteemed presidency, all present in the O.R. Well, now I'm sitting here listening to everything in order, and when the SDA is talking about the same approach, I can't sit still, I have to say a few things. I expected the gentlemen of the SDS to get up and say it's not okay when, when the SDS minister was replaced, it was a direct television transmission back then, and what's not here today, and that's not a direct transmission, it's not a direct transmission. On the one hand, and on the other hand, Mr. Šepić, you know who then organized that, so why we don't have the same approach today. Why isn't there today, let's say conditionally, that shame to go directly on the state canal? So you were the one who initiated it here and brought it here, so we're talking about access. You're suddenly some pacifists, you're very nice, cultural, and let me, I support, yes, well done, but as long as it suits you. As soon as that doesn't suit you, you're well-known for never having the same approach and always having the opportunity and the situation that suits you. Today it suits you to be something nice and cultural and to have the same 28 approaches, but why say this, here's the same approach you didn't and now you've taken that path. And I expected you gentlemen from the SDS to stand up and say, "So where is this television broadcast today, which I have mentioned many times?" No, you're just worried about how and how SNSD will, when what SNSD said. Gentlemen, so that conditionally said our shame which has been passed on, us from the RS that was passed on then directly on the state channel why don't you today ask it to be here too. Why didn't you, then, stick to, let's say, this equal approach that the SDA stands for? That's why I got up and thank you very much, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22505	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22506	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. Allow me to discuss as President of the Foreign Affairs Commission and at first to say, not for foreign policy, but for foreign affairs like our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so the responsibility for foreign policy management is at the Bureau. And all that implicates the foreign minister is, in fact, the responsibility of the presidency. We have several times in the last three years had a report that we have discussed on the Commission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, once in the presence of the Minister, because it is so explicitly requested by the Commission. And I think that the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as this morning, has been evaluated at the conclusion of 2013. It appears, therefore, that the work of the Minister and the Ministry until 2013 or at the end of 2013 was positive. It is true that there have also been abstentions, principled SNSD has been restrained whenever voted according to the foreign ministry's report. Today we have an initiative, which was submitted on 14 May, based on citizens' demands since 7 February. In the meantime, the foreign ministry, I intend not to say the minister, but the foreign ministry headed by the minister was very active in the recovery of flood damage. We have a donor conference on July 17th, and we have important meetings at the end of August of the month. Of course after the elections, the parliamentary majority that is set up in this House here will be the one who will define, among other things, foreign policy, and these big big issues, such as Euro-Atlantic integration. I hope that whoever did it will be a programming coalition that will be able to agree on key issues that this coalition here could not agree on. I think it is very... to link the responsibility of the foreign minister, the foreign ministry for the difficult socio-economic situation in BiH. As far as the SDP is concerned, we who are here representatives and the president of the SDP, Mr Lagumdžija, are how much responsibility it will bear in the elections. But just to remind you, this Council of Ministers will be working for at least six months in this or some other assembly, so we're not talking about a month or two problems with the work of the Council of Ministers if there's a shift, we're talking about a work problem for at least the next half year. And this is the period when, among other things, we expect that the initiative that has been launched lately towards the EU on a specific approach to BiH that would allow us to continue negotiations and finally open that door that I think we have agreement on, which is European integration, should be materialised. In this regard, I do not see any of the reasons why we on the Commission discussed the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to vote today against the Minister of Foreign Affairs, unless it is an act of political commitment, which is also the right of each of the parties here. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22507	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22508	I thank the chairman. ...is more, since I don't have the right to replica anymore. Dear colleague Bursać complained there was no TV transmission here. I really don't know he's gone, none of us went to turn on the TV and see if he has a camera, he doesn't have, if we're being transmitted, we're giving our views whether he has or doesn't have a camera. I'm glad you rebelled and said BHT conveyed Serbian shame. I'm glad you saw your mistake and that what you did when you replaced Minister Šarović, you consider Serbian shame, such a dose of self-critism really needs to be welcomed. But I'm afraid that today would be a Serbian shame, because all of this tells me that SNSD actually trusts Mr Lagumdžija much more than its deputy minister. Well, maybe I would, too, because Mr. Lagumdžija is much less of a story about NATO and NATO alliance and much less is their promoter than Mrs. Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic. And I assume you don't want her to take over the foreign minister's duties. It is also a shame that Mrs Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic did not blink her eye on the impeachment of Consul Nermin Pećanac when a Serbian member of the presidency launched a vital national interest. It is also a shame that she did not say a word when Mr. Lagumdžija placed Deputy Chief of Mission in the UN as Serbian personnel Dragan Anđelić, war secretary Haris Silajdžić. I can congratulate Mr. Lagumdžija. Perhaps from the point of view of BiH's interest it's not how he runs politics, how he leads foreign policy, affirming only one nation's interests here, but from the point of view of his political party he managed to do so and to affirm the attitudes of a nation, to have foreign policy function as a nation. Our Serbian problem is that our presidency member only sometimes, very rarely responds to it, Deputy Minister never. On the contrary, the other day I read an interview in the magazine "Start" where Mrs. Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic said that she is doing great work with Mr. Lagumdzija, whom she rarely sees, because he says he does everything there and prepares everything for her. Well, I didn't know who the minister was, he or she was, because I congratulate you Mr Lagumdžij if you're coming and everything to prepare Ani Trišić-Babić-Babic. Serbian shame is also that, for example, employment in the MIP cannot be obtained by people who have completed the University of Banja Luka or East Sarajevo, Srbin, I am talking about Serbian personnel. We talk a lot about principle here. I'll remind you when the initiative for Mr. Lagumdžija's shift was launched here last time. 7 August 2012. – The Lagumdžija did not only violate the Constitution, but also committed a crime, thus eliminating the possibility of an agreement for the UN Resolution vote, Milorad Dodik. It's 27.07.2012 again. – the fact that Lagumdžija has unconstitutionally ordered that BiH in the UN supports the resolution on Syria is something that RS cannot overcome. 17.08.2012, again, Milorad Dodik, the formula for the shift of Lagumdžija 13+9+3, does not have him, Lagumdžija, the problem with me but with the Constitution of BiH, has broken the constitutional procedure we will raise the issue of his resolution. August 24, 2012. – today, no later than tomorrow within the SNSD parliamentary group, an initiative for the shift of Zlatko Lagumdžija should be launched. Mr. Lagumdžija must go from there. 28.08.2012. - We're going with Zlatko Lagumdžija's laugh because he broke the Constitution. We will support the initiative within our coordination with the SDS. 31 August 2012, of course all Milorad Dodik – he broke the Constitution, will leave. 05th September 2012, again Milorad Dodik – both SNSD and SDA have their reasons against the behaviour and policy led by the SDP leader. Frankly speaking, I have a silent agreement with Lagumdzija, not with Tihic and the SDA. Looks like that deal's always the way Mr. Lagumdžija says it is. 06.09.2012 - If it doesn't come to Lagumdji's shift, you can count on us to take a step after which he is very visible and very painful. He can't be a Lagumdžija... 30 SPEAKS
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22509	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22510	Read Mr. Dodik, so please I'm right, I'm just asking where the principle and consistency is, I remind you. I know Mrs. Majkić isn't answering you. - Lagumdžija cannot act beyond the Constitution and represent BiH. Either he acts like he's going, he has to or he's going, the Lagumdžija will be replaced he's broken the Constitution. Mr. Lagumdžija can't be a minister anymore because he broke the Constitution if someone knocks down Bosnia and Herzegovina's Lagumdžija. And then he says, 31.10. – The SNSD continues to co-operate through partnership with the SDP. Mr. Lagumdžija, tell us, please, what have you done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22511	You'd just ask your colleague to source, uh, tell us what the paper is, since it's very, very important that you tell us the source, because then from the source we can, uh, when you're quoting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22512	“Respect” magazine September 23rd
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22513	And the "respect" is at stake. Okay, thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22514	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed some, so I'm not allowed to say the facts, so some of those things that you bring up are nonsense. I guess you read that somewhere, maybe you wrote a lot, but as they say, whatever happened to Grandma, it happened to her, and that's how it works. But it doesn't matter. When I thought of Serbian shame, Serbian shame is exactly what you've been doing right now, Serbian shame is here in Sarajevo when you and I are fighting today, you know. We are MPs, and we need to defend the attitudes of the RS here, not to argue among ourselves. I've tried my best to in no way, in any context, to get into the SDS and not in any way freak you out the way you do forever when SNSD personnel are involved. Now, it's a Serbian shame, it's a Serbian disgrace, and you're the pioneer and the greatest winemaker of that Serbian, the leader of Serbian disgrace here in Sarajevo, you're you,...in this context in which I told you. Now, let me tell you. Furthermore, if we had seen our mistake, don't attribute this mistake to us, you've taken down your lions in the RS, and you thought to finance from Sarajevo. And there's... Aleksandra
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22515	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22516	Pray freely, so that's where you recalculated Miss Pandurević, you of the SDS. It couldn't have just been like that, you've been doing what you wanted here, and you've also stayed in the RS to do 31 of what you want. Here it's as if you're shaking as a position, down there to shake like an opposition. Slowly, if we stick to Serbian attitudes and if we're going to do it here in Sarajevo or down in Banja Luka, it's irrelevant, so we have to synchronise the story a little, it can't just go like that. Next, here's a fellow Kalabić mentioning your not coming today. You have the right to instruct an assistant, the Deputy Minister, it's irrelevant, and you're the ones who never come means the working bodies here. Why didn't you come and condemn, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, the work of Mr Lagumdžija? Why were you not to go out today and say, "Mr. Lagumdžija, you are not right? I am against your report. No, you don't show up, you always do it Solomonically, you try to wise up. I'm a member of four committees and I'm going to die to get to all four. The other day at the same time, here I am, and Mr. Lozančić, we flew on two, to get there to defend Serbian interest, to make an effort and to make it... Saša [[Common discussion]] to try, of course not, I didn't mean you when I said Serbian interest, just a little bit, to defend each of our interests, I apologize. It's now, and it's a perfectly natural and legitimate thing, you understand. You can't do that, you can't ever come, you know, you're thinking about everything here, you're imputing us to something we're not right about. That's not how it works, gentlemen. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22518	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22519	I'm sorry I wasted my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22520	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22521	I welcome you ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it's very interesting, it's not a language, it's a real one, but it's a kidnapping. But the President would be extremely correct when someone is called a liar, etc., it would be polite for you, as Parliament speaker, to point out to a dictionary who is not fit for this Parliament. The least you could do was at least do it. Secondly, when it comes to this discussion that we now have, where luck exists, therefore the minimum interest of the RS that we as elected national representatives should represent here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And just to remind you, it was and it existed and as such it worked here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22522	32 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22523	I beg you, President, the chairman you would not have been to warn the People's MP. Look, I've got a problem right now. I'm confused now. I don't know what I was gonna say. I know for sure what I'm trying to say... You see the problem you gentlemen have with SNSD, you're aware of the fact that you'll be going through the upcoming elections, and now you're trying to find the words that...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22524	Please don't throw it away, and let's get back to the agenda. Here you go. BORISLAV
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22525	which you will gain confidence in. It's impossible to know, there's simply no other possibility. The dictionary I've heard here today from Mr. Kalabić it's a disaster, it's out of every sense, it's simply not seen in parliamentary life. What you are trying to do is there is no kind of political strategy, or any kind of political tactics that you are now exhibiting here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. More like gossip than some serious political concept allegedly presented by the RS's largest political party. Where we are fortunate to return, therefore, to the principles that we are, and which we always advocate, and which should be, and you have disturbed them, you have disrupted that part of the approach that the RS should have, so above all, the interests that the RS should present in the Parliamentary Assembly. Not to the harm of anyone but to the benefit of both the RS and all those who want to have an interest in building together what can be done in BiH, what they cannot and may not be, and nothing can be done to harm the RS. I wish we'd acted that way better for the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22526	Wait a minute, please. BORISLAV
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22527	First of all, you have not acted in such a way, because you have just done it, you have done it, and you are the very principle, therefore the political attitudes that you have done, and exactly the part that you yourself have characterized as a political disgrace relating to public transmission when it comes to Mr. Šarović and the shift of man. And well said here someone, when it comes to shifts here, is being replaced by representatives of political parties, not people who, among other things, do certain jobs. Right, Mr. Šarović was only replaced because he was a member of the SDS and because he was successful in running the minister's affairs and for these reasons you chose to replace Mr. Šarović, who, in my opinion, was the best minister in the Council of Ministers. It's definitely...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22528	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22529	For what? You're out of power.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22530	I give you my first warning. I warned you like all other MPs when they passed three minutes of replica. On the other hand, I want to tell you that I couldn't warn anyone because it was circumstantial. And never directly when someone offends any 33 MPs I refrain from warning him. So, indirectly when spoken rather than directly, that's another thing. BORISLAV
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22531	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22532	I don't think you have any real objection, but you've had to say something, and I'll accept any well-intentioned, and when you say that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and I've done it before, I'm going to put it here to vote on your remarks. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, just in case I made sure, I signed up for the replica and the discussion. But this today shows, dear colleague Bojiću, I will begin by you, that you are today transferring political debate and field, not only today but all the time based on SNSD's behaviour in Sarajevo. Do you have one comment on any MPs, especially the club, what did we from the SNSD do against the RS as you wish to present it? So I spoke to you at several previous sessions – it wasn't the SNSD with anyone in the Sarajevo coalition that formed the Council of Ministers, but in the partner relationship of necessity, because we didn't want to be a remethyling factor. SNSD's eight MPs, with us Professor Kunić as the ninth in the Club, you 4, and we do peace, no one would give it to you alive, we give you the post of Minister, the SNSD, to give you the place of two committee presidents in Parliament, very important, and the SNSD that has more, twice as many MPs take one. And you against that authority but you won't resign, you know what the president of the commission is, you have the right to drive, logs, phone, everything. It does not occur to you personally to resign when you complain and cry for Mirko Šarović today. Let it go, it's a finished story, run it in some next election, so if it passes. And you from the topic that's very important to you, it's completely irrelevant to me, I've already said in the last part, we've had a month, and now we've been around, under the supposed signs, I don't know what term I'm going to use, but here, on Zlatko Lagumdžija, I'm not going to tell the minister, not the friend, not the SDP, not the probian, not the probian, nothing, the Zlatko Lagumdžija, the different ties from me. And you've come to him for days, and you think you're going to do something about it. A month from now, not even the bride is getting married, and Đoković is waiting to win Wimbledon and get married at svet Stefan, if he loses, he will go there, but he is waiting, and they have been preparing for several years. And you in the month today want to solve everything, and the problem of Mirko Šarović, and the problem of Dodik, you never started a discussion here and ended up not mentioning Dodik. And if he were a member of Parliament, then you would have replaced him with one session, and you would have sent others back. And we would never actually return it, you don't decide, but you're going to do it, go back to what's the subject, and I have a discussion. Thank you very much, so they don't warn me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22534	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22535	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 34 So here we are today discussing the item of the agenda that bears the title – the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. And in fact, from all we could hear the least about it, in fact, it's been me since the initiative itself, and even through the debate, an attempt to keep track of political relations in BiH in the last four years. I'll brief my position on this initiative. Every time so far, and this seems to me to be the fourth in a row or even the fifth maybe initiative for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, when it was true about initiatives that could have led in some way to improvements or at least when it came to initiatives that did not contain indications that they would be worse, we supported those reconstructions, even when it came to the SDA replacement proposal and when it came to the SDS replacement proposal. We have always had proposals that guaranteed a sufficient parliamentary majority to continue the work of the Council of Ministers and we supported those initiatives by thinking it would be better, at the very least, that it would not be worse. In the previous initiative when it came to the replacement of the Minister of Security, we were against the reason we were aware that it was destroying and, therefore, the last parliamentary majority. And for the same reason, of course, we will be now, and I will, of course, be against this initiative because I don't think it solves anything and it just has a clear indication that it makes the Council of Ministers worse. I will be, I will give my position here, of course it is not commendable either for me who supported the parliamentary majority and which I signed at the end of three years ago and something, when I ended up last term in which I served as minister in the second half of the House of Peoples, I truly thought it couldn't go any worse. However, these four years have shown that they can and have shown the results of the entire government in BiH. And that now, in some ways, I am a little bit of a replica of my colleagues, from my colleague Živković, and everyone else, where he has kind of alluded to representatives of the majority Croatian bloc here in Parliament that this is an opportunity, in a way, to collect accounts with the SDP. I don't think that's the place, nor that the replacement of any minister at this point in the Council of Ministers would help with that billing. I believe that we have not yet reached a consensus here in BiH that will allow a better political climate to solve basic problems in BiH. And all that's been going on in the last four years isn't both anti-Bosnian and anti-Serbian and anti-Croat and anti-Bosnian, and that's why I didn't realize that any of the MPs who negatively contexted the concept of probossan, that he actually meant absolutely anything bad for BiH. On the other hand, those who positively contexted the concept also failed to say that he is in fact the primaryity of the parties from Sarajevo in some way trying to impose as a licensed patriotism of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which he did not end up with. And that's why I think it would be best for us to bring this debate to an end as soon as possible and to approach the plea, and I think that we all know together about what it will be and what the result will be. I think at this point it is the least pity for BiH that this Council of Ministers continues to function in this composition and that it manages to meet at least those routine obligations that stand before the Council of Ministers, because otherwise any other outcome would be only a deterioration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22536	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22537	I thank the Honorable President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. 35 As we were and expected today, thanks to the Initiative to include such a item of the agenda, we have successfully spent time that we could spend on much more useful things. And it's the only success of this initiative and the debate we're having on this initiative. I'll say a few things about this point. So I'm expressing my disagreement with the fact that this is even on the agenda, so I disagree. I don't agree with Mr Lagumdžija either as SDP president or as foreign minister. I do not agree that any warship based on any private approval is sailing into BiH's territorial waters. I don't even agree with the Department of Foreign Affairs' staff policy. I don't agree with the consequences we all suffer because of moves at levels where SDP plays a dominant role. I don't agree with the fact that only after a month and a half we've forgotten those flooded. I don't agree that we're not involved in facilitating the position of our economic operators. I don't agree that the only way out of this is to solve a problem we see in new credits, and we don't know how we're gonna get back. And I don't agree with much more. But I do not agree with any additional, or should I say, the final or total destruction of the Council of Ministers, so it may not be too difficult to say through and through one very serious destruction of the BiH state. And we should, too, because this is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we are chosen here to take care of the interests of BiH and all that is within that BiH and its territory and its organisational units and its peoples and its citizens and everything that marks it. And I'm going to say that I'm very glad, I feel it as a compliment, when someone recognizes that I also defend Serbian interests, I'm glad when someone recognizes that I'm defending Bosniak interests, especially when someone recognizes that I'm defending Croatian interests, and I'm most pleased when they put it all in something called the Bosnian herbic interests, the interests of the BiH state, because our mandate is only to do so here. And all of these wishes, I understand they're human weakness for different kinds of revenge, and here it's been a lot of revenge before, I don't think I'm repeating what I've already said, so these are pure revenge, and here you are to me that I'm going to do this to you. I remember there was an initiative, here for a shift and members of the College because someone in the Federal Parliament had replaced someone there... I am not satisfied even now, I will repeat that because it is a fact, which is a SDP, but I did not, establish an unconstitutional authority in the Federation just to exclude the legitimate interest of the Croatian people. And these are my key reasons for disagreements with the SDP, so key, with all this. However, today, when it is necessary to define between these differences with the SDP, my disagreements with the foreign minister, my disagreements with Mr Lagumdžija, I will choose that at this point, however, it is still too much for the interests of the BiH state than it is for that, here are disagreements with both the person and, I don't know, the duties of the person concerned at this point. So, I'm appealing to try this one, someone said six months, Mr. Kušljugić Bog heard you say it's only six months, so you're a very optimistic man because you're counting on the obvious that the new Council of Ministers will be elected a month after the election. I also wish that, however, will depend on the relationship between political forces, it will depend on who will be the dominant political force and I hope that after the general elections we will not suffer destruction in order to exclude someone at all costs, that we will not wait 16 months to form power again, that we will not be subject to different blackmails, trades, etc., that we will truly understand that at this point, most honestly, at this point, let the citizens of BiH, leave it to them, and that will happen to leave us or not to let them, that they assess the effect both of us and each of us individually. And when happiness doesn't last long, it means only two months or so, so I don't think it's wise to make a sacrifice or a hero out of anyone today or whatever you want. I think that we should enable this Council of Ministers' assembly, if nothing else, of what we haven't made possible over the past four years, means that we can allow it to try to end this 36-year term with such dignity and not bring this country into an additional crisis if we can't already, or we don't know, or we won't solve any of the problems that are ahead of us. So enough trouble so we don't create them again. And that is the key reason, and the club president said, that we will not support this initiative because we think it is harmful to the interests of BiH, not to the interests of any person individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22538	Thank you. Comrade Đugum, I would warn you that you had a discussion, but that you have another replica. You were at the introduction first practically.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22539	Introduction to the reasoning of the Initiative, and there was absolutely no discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22540	I'll let you have another line, but here, I think you can do it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22541	I just want to say that there's absolutely nothing personal going on here, nothing out of revenge. Absolutely during this period, and twice I noted, that if it was wanted to be seen in the interest of the state then the SDP had enough time to propose a SDP security minister and absolutely not to come into such a problem. False information or a statement issued that we did not know absolutely if the two ministers were to be removed to which the situation would take place, but then the Security Minister who could have been elected from the SDP order and met the category needed for the Council of Ministers was to be proposed. For these reasons, we only gave up, not on the initiative, or what is thought to have been done 50% of the demands of the first initiative and the replacement of the defence minister. Absolutely arguments and detachment from the topic and prepared explanations in order to justify someone's work, not working, had no place at this time. This was not a vote on the work of either the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but on a request clearly stated in the explanation. If Mr. Kalabić had a set before a certain time as a folk... "The Jazavac before the Court" and protected the interests of the people, then today protects the interests of the SDP-SNSD coalition. If we want to talk about the report, if we want to talk about agreements when the parliamentary majority and the 2012 Council of Ministers are formed, then we need to analyse what is really done. In May 2013, it was said that we were all going to NATO, pomps, newspapers, television. Then in October. What's that from what's been done in the program work we know, but it's not the subject of this point. We can discuss this later, and the work of the Council of Ministers, and the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the work of the coalition on what it has promised and has called it a programme coalition or a mathematical coalition, whatever you want. I haven't heard a single conversation, not a single discussion in this House in the last 2.5 hours, based on an argument of the reasons for the initiative, and it saddens me. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22542	Thank you. Replica, a respected colleague, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22543	Thank you, Mr. President. I warmly welcome you all. The replica refers to the appointment of the minister of security not to the SDP but to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as personally I, as the president of the People's Party, received a letter for candidacy to make a proposal for the appointment of the minister of security. I have referred the name and last name, I do not know if any of these parties have been directed, and the People's Party has been working for the better because it is both proboscis and pro-herzegovina and pro-Croatian and pro-Serb and pro-Spain, to save the Council of Ministers and for the Council of Ministers to work. So, it's not up to the SDP, it's me thinking of the Council of Ministers chairman, he should make his contribution to fill the Council of Ministers and be in full capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22544	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22545	Thank you, Chairman. Just a few words. This is indeed an irrational kind of work of Parliament, but also an initiative that... To ask questions like this three months before the elections, I think it's declassified, asking questions like this for a year and a half at least that an initiative is being given for shifts in the Council of Ministers. I think simply that mentality is very worrying about us. He's worrying everywhere in the world, and I think we're still advocating in that dimension, especially on the balcony, not just us, but on the copper. So, we're losing this rational vision, a rational substance from our eyesight, and we're talking today, we're wasting our time on lame things, and when the key things are over very quickly, we don't have the guts to engage in debates that matter, and we're very happy to accept destructive debates that don't lead to anything. Indeed, three months to change ministers it works, before the end seems ridiculous. I spoke on several occasions about the Council of Ministers, and I was also not satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers. Which is why the Council of Ministers, it's not about individuals who couldn't fulfill the task, they could, they were serious. I think it is too much of the influence of the leaders on the behaviour of the parties in this Parliament and that they are too dictated that parliamentarians will behave. I was in Parliament last term, I don't think so. Now here I heard in the hallway, which I didn't like either, but this is the worst Parliament in the postwar period. Whether there is something, probably there is, but I must say that we have been often destructive, that we have not had the courage to discuss with the Council of Ministers, not on shifts because it is not an essential issue, and it was a fundamental question whether Parliament is giving a political note, a dimension for fighting organised crime and corruption, which he did not approve of, he did not take it seriously at any point. Of course, these are topics that are very important and that are burning for BiH. I'm glad there are some things in the fight against corruption now, and I really welcome that, especially the prosecution's work in this regard. I hope he has the courage to keep working. When the debate was on, I will mention this, about public procurement, something we wanted to finish as soon as possible, which is one of the fundamental laws in the fight against organised crime and corruption, especially in the countries of transition, and he demanded other content. I expected it to receive adequate content, but apparently the ruling structure was not 38 ready for it. But it should be expected that those who arrive in the next term will likely be taught the weak impulses of this Parliament to work better in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22546	The word has the chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22547	Thank you. Although in the first part of my speech I warned of the work of Parliament, the principle of parties, let me directly address my colleagues from the SDS who called SNSD in this part of their address, and here the story of the replacement of Minister Lagumdžija into party pre-election waters. If I were to quote some magazines that have much more respect than those that the distinguished colleague quoted as saying, as former Minister Fahrudin Radončić said – SDS is the biggest evil for BiH, it is very difficult with fellow SBB colleagues to be in the same machine and support their initiative, if we are talking about principle. If you read in the same or similar newspaper my mayor Obren Petrović's statement, who said the SNSD wants to replace me because I'm running a proboscis policy and because I'm about to join NATO, that's not what the SNSD said, that's what your prominent member, the board member, vice president of the party said. In the Continuity of Doboj, he leads such a policy, and that's the policy of the SDS, which even NATO's SDS policy, you can't just give up your strong personnel and say it, so it has nothing to do with us. We are talking about the principle of SDS policy. When you talk about Deputy Minister Šarović, it is undeniable that he has damaged the interests of the RS because he has proposed, and you have adopted along with him, a law in which he has raised the power of this Parliament, where we have an entity vote, brought to the Council of Ministers where decisions can be made by revote. I'm not talking about decisions made by the chairman of my two deputies. I'm talking about the Council of Ministers. And you didn't leave the government because we forced you out to destroy the Serbian interest in Sarajevo, but because you damaged the interests of the RS. And we recognized your grammar in putting and leading the human policy that also damaged the RS, and your wish was just to position yourself better for the upcoming elections, not to protect the interests of the RS. We're talking about a pre-election campaign where I'd compare your SNSD scare to the election result as if Peljto was challenging Kličko to a duel and he's saying he's going to win. So don't talk about the things you're in and you don't know how many hollows and how small and unprepared for the battle, especially for leading the high policy that's being led here in the BiH Parliament. You don't know what political pressure means to our attempt to replace our colleague Lagumdžija in those statements you've heard. And I will mention, since it is now the end of the term of office, what has been done, to mention the amendment of the Election Law, do you want to mention the amendment to the Law of Conflict of Interest? Do you want to mention the Prosecution Act or the Public Procurement Act where it was first re-delegated to an entity. That the Office of Appeals, so they opened up in Mostar and Banja Luka, brought the citizens closer to what the international community persistently imposed and said we couldn't do, we found partners without talking about unblocked funds that came from Elektroprivreda. You couldn't even recognize what you could do when you're running high politics, because you don't know how to do it. You have to explain it to the people in this election campaign why the SDA is a better partner than the SDP. Because you want with the SDA and you signed agreements to run a BiH-level policy with them, to show that it's better Bakir od Zlatko. Youmorati have to explain it to the people in BiH, unless they won't Obren 39 in Doboj or elsewhere to explain how it's better for the RS to have Bakir as a talker and not Zlatko. Therefore, colleagues from the SDS return to reality, you are too flying in the clouds, you take the right to speak to yourself about the winners in the elections, and not your membership, because membership, but all citizens, have a little longer sense than you think, you underestimate our people and you can't win. Thank you. Dear colleague Boris Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22548	My name is Borislav Bojić, not Boris. So that you're the best in the world should replace you, just that you're flowers, that you're planted, I don't know, in special pots, you need to be changed because the change itself will be... So I'm saying this honestly not about what they're going to have, there's no transmissions, and this can have consequences on the election campaign. That you are the best, that you are ideal, should replace you just because one structure is established that does what is not good on the political scene. That's one sentence about you. As for our political views and statements within the SDS, we are a democratic party. Our political views are determined by the Assembly of the Party which you have had the opportunity to see, which was in Bijeljina and you have seen who were all the distinguished guests at the SDS Assembly and you have seen the power in the SDS and that is what the problem is to you. I'm aware of that, and I see you're quite aware of that fact. After all, the inevitable is that's what's gonna happen. Why speak here in a dictionary... well, logically, what kind of vocabulary you'll be speaking three months before the election. I don't know which dictionary today should be used by someone sitting here in Parliament without using a dictionary that's tied to a pre-election campaign. I'm not convinced, Mr. Živković, that something like that might appear. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22549	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22550	Listen, Kalabić, you are, don't let me qualify you because if I qualify you, it'll be very ugly and horny, and since I already have one warning, you'll probably get another one right away, because I don't think anyone else has been warned in this House. I think I'm one of the people who's extremely correct in the Parliamentary Assembly, but here's the thing about relations with some of the people, not a matter of real approach that should have the chairman when he's doing this job he's doing right now, but he won't be doing it for long. As for high policy, etc., etc., there is therefore no such thing as Mr. Živković, a political concept at the premises of BiH that has shown, among other things, the result of what the SDS has done in the past when it comes to RS and all that we have done on the political scene. You can't compare yourself to the SDS in that sense. So, don't worry about anything, there's enough political capacity in the SDS, and I think we're going to do it through this campaign anyway, not just show, but we're going to have a situation where RS citizens will recognize the SDS as an alternative to the current government. I'm totally convinced of that. And this is how I had to say it for a simple reason because I needed to tell you. And as for further relations here in BiH as they will be built, sure to be built, it would be better to do so in a way that will have 40 political strategies that will be identified as attitudes from the RS and that all representatives, who will be elected from the RS to this House tomorrow, will represent these interests in a way that protect the interests of the RS. And I think that's the best principle you've ever broken and no one else.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22551	It's been a while. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'll try not to fall into a trap like the good number of today's debaters promoting myself and my political party. I felt like I was taking part in a show limited to three minutes, so beat as much as you can, better, etc., to introduce yourself to who's going to show up here better and better and stronger members of their people, as opposed to those who are getting a little bumpy. Here, I'm going to try some arguments to talk about SNSD-led politics, because I've seen a little argument here that speaks of something that should be done. And those who are calling, so here I am, starting with the proposing himself who, if this is the principle of the SBB, then I don't understand something. He says, we propose that the defence minister in his previous proposal, in his previous request for a shift, be replaced by the BiH Defence Minister for abuse of ceremony by the RS president who, in his address, presented the Armed Forces to BiH as an entity army. Let's give it up, but now let's get this Zlatko guy wrapped up there, the same sentence, in the events of 07.02., and all the gatherings of the citizens' prey today have shown mass dissatisfaction with the work of the current government. I'm not sure, I'm not in the defense here, but I don't think there's enough arguments for this kind of thing, and giving up on the other side. There were other arguments, but I'm saying that the policy run by the SNSD is a policy called politics. And it's both professionally and scientifically proven that politics is about dealing with the art, and it's not politics between desires, it has to be between wishes and possibilities. The mass of it is that we would like some things to happen, but the possibilities are quite different. I am the advocate that, above all, we from the RS are here to protect the Dayton Peace Agreement, to protect interests and the RS, and by protecting the interests of the RS, we are certainly protecting BiH. For these reasons, if we take the right to appoint representatives from the order of the Serb people, because we come from the RS, then sometimes it is not correct when we want others or vice versa when others want to make us who it will be, who will represent that people. I suppose it is the legitimacy of each of the chosen peoples and MPs that they choose their own representative and that they decide on them. So today there were many discussions that were even unfounded. We have a lot of objections to the work and the foreign ministry, but we also have other ministries on the work, but if we have already accepted the reports and adopted them then we must say that there are other employees in the ministry and those who belong to other political parties. For these reasons, it is not good that we speak today only as long as the term of office goes on. We all have a mandate here until the end of October, who will be elected will decide the people. Therefore, it is not even correct to say your time has passed, etc., who knows whose time it is and how long it will be, the people will decide. That is why it is not correct at such gatherings, at the largest meeting, or in Parliament, of the largest Parliament in BiH, that we are now setting dates as long as anyone lasts and as long as anyone performs this function. The people will recognize it well. We're wasting a lot of time on parallel things, so we'd better do some other things than we're talking about without arguments about some things, and we can't achieve any effects. If we're going to replace Mr. Lagumdžija today, we're not going to have a chance to appoint another in the next three months. Is that rational for this country, is that okay? So, the elections are going, we don't have to waste time about it, let's just focus on having any more of the laws that 41 need to be passed and let's get to work. Pre-election campaign, she should be banned, she can only last a month, she's been with us for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22553	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22554	You see... I am quite enough time and space, I think Mr. Tomić has given vi this criticism that refers to time, so be very careful about it. And as for the future time in which things will change, and there will be a change I assure you. But as for the political concept of the SNSD, I have to say one sentence which, here's the clagort for it given to me by Mr Tomić, who says fighting for RS is fighting for BiH as well. You have such a kind of political strategy and on the other hand you have a political strategy in which you say we are as a political party committed to the referendum, to the secession of the RS. Now it's hard to recognize really what this really is like as a political concept has a SNSD. That's what I think for someone who would have to, I don't even know how to recognize. I've been doing these questions a little bit, and I've seen that as much as possible to get to know these political messages that I've tried in stenograms, which I've had a chance to read before, find out what SNSD's political strategy is. I have to say that it couldn't be found, because it's more of a smoke bomb drop than there is any kind of political strategy in which you could say some other political attitude. What I'm trying to say, and it doesn't matter what it's going to be criticism and the political party I'm sitting in, is a very small number of ideologically profiled people in political parties, in percentages of 3 to 5%. I don't think it's any better when it comes to SDS, but I have to tell you that you have a disaster. So you're a completely different political profile than what you represent in public when it comes to the policy that you advocate. After all, there's going to be an opportunity to talk politics, now this is on the agenda that it is, but I needed to tell you that there's plenty of time for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22555	Your time is up. Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22556	Thank you very much. Well, look, Mr. Bosić, Bojić, there's little chance you're gonna be instead of Bosić, but here I am trying not to go that way. I'm someone who's a legalist and someone who's been elected here by citizens of the RS and their interests... but I also owe it to respect the Dayton Agreement and the House I'm sitting in. Therefore, I will do nothing that would be contrary to the Constitution, the Dayton Peace Agreement. If you are trying to get out of context as we stand for BiH, as we stand for BiH, for which your predecessors once voted and there was a change of law, we do not stand for it. We stand for BiH in which all three peoples will be equal and in which jurisdiction will not be transferred. And I'm asking you to keep some of these things for pre-election meetings, not here for us to have a debate in this House. Therefore, I am quite responsible for saying that I am someone who primarily protects the interests of those who chose him, they are citizens of the RS, but I respect all that is scheduled for BiH to do until the end. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22557	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22558	Here, first I have to make a little introduction. So I come from East Sarajevo and the election base, here I am in 2010 was from Zvornik to Trebinj. The SDS also had a solid number of votes, over 40,000, 2010. Here I am, my smallness had some over 16,000, but it doesn't matter at all. We ran the policy before 2010 and it was recognized, if this is what you say, you don't say, citizens... what policy is being conducted. In 2012, and I was president of the SDS of that region up in 2012, in those some more than 20 municipalities we got 90%, so I recognized some policy, and among other things I remain president of that region where the SDS has in that proboscis eastern Sarajevo of 31 committees 17, a super-half majority. Now, what's important to say for me personally, first I said that, here I can say modestly that I'm some person who has these voices behind him, that I don't know but I do. And I'm pretty confused, and that's what I'm saying on behalf of those people there because they're all confused about what we're saying, what we do, who cares about this, what, for this, for that, for that. They don't care what we say. And we're proving ourselves to each other about principles, attitudes, about this, about that. You know who's interested in that? No one. Well, principledness, so Mr. Tomić says, my colleague, friend, we agree, a member of the SNSD, argued, we are conflicting, but he also confuses me, so Mr. Tomić says we are leading politics here, we must let the Bosniak people decide on this. So I'm kind of mathematically adding these 7 from SDA, this 4 from SBB, as you say little, 11, these 8. Well, I guess the Bosniak policy is this 11, not this 8, if we're going to support Bosniak politics. But I get it in me so that we can support Bosniak politics, let's support Serbian politics, what's our interest. So today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you're confusing me so we don't know from the SDS Club how we're going to vote. Nice, marked, red tie, partner, man, associate, and here you say, like this, like this, like this. High politics. So you have no idea what high politics is. High politics are citizens of BiH, not a high policy to say of one plus 4 minus 18 plus 38 times 6 divided by 3 two, but immediately say two that we don't waste any more time. We're just political, and what I wanted to say is that I'm, here's confused and I don't know how I'm going to vote. And before the vote, I'm asking for a break to consult on how we're going to vote. Thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22559	Just a little bit, please. I'm asking the SDS Club who asked for a break, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asked to speak, if you'd like to hear his address first, or if we're going to take a break right now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22561	Dear ladies and gentlemen MPs, dear friends, all present. I already said I'd talk, otherwise... I heard that my exposure could be a scale then you wouldn't even sign up, you've already decided. I wouldn't have come forward if I hadn't gotten one very specific question, and before that, I am obliged first to thank you all today who took part in this, to thank all those who have had the patience that fills 50 today since the beginning of this initiative or of the flood, however you wish, for having understood that I never once wanted to speak on the subject that is on the agenda today. And I am obliged to say just a few words about it here in Parliament today, and I have no intention of talking about it anymore than doing what I did the previous 50 days since you submitted this initiative. So, on the question of what you've done, Mr. Lagumdžija, which is given here, by this initiative, I've dealt with what's the biggest problem in this country, and that's certainly not what today's agenda is. I am taking the opportunity to thank the MPs and MPs who came from the SDA and the SBB who were there today, this morning at the Foreign Policy Commission and supported the work, the Foreign Ministry report, which is a great recognition for a large team of people there, and quite naturally then for me. I'm particularly glad that I didn't hear any comments today that would make me think about maybe something like the foreign minister did a bad job, and I thank you honestly for that as well as for your vote which has long been known and what would in any case rather move the stone than convince you of what's the fact. So, in the last 50 days of this initiative I've been dealing with only what happened 50 days ago and that's not this initiative. And I call for the team to be dealt with within the next 100 days until the election, no matter what the result of today's vote is. On the other hand, if, no matter what the result of today's vote, if you after today's vote, you have 22 men who are ready to reconstruct the Council of Ministers tomorrow, we all from the SDP give you our seats, but don't let it wait 24 hours for such a thing, because no one in this country has time, no one. Because in the next 100 days, I'm just inviting you all together, regardless of the results of today's vote, to commit ourselves to what is the biggest problem of this country and this is indeed the disastrous consequences of this flood, 16% of the social product was destroyed in the flood. We are trying to organise a donor conference at which only a one-year budget of BiH institutions is required to rebuild houses, and only to restore jobs that have lost another BiH institution budget. And I call really for the next 100 days to compete in who's going to do this and let the people read... and not to compete in how to talk about what people don't care about, which is what my colleague Babalj was talking about, frankly, I am honestly convinced that no matter how any of us, from me, or anyone who is running, goes through these elections that they will be quieter with themselves, not... make a good result than so much if in these 100 days left in front of us it helps to do something in this country that before winter a good part of what we need to get together and that before winter people will be under their roofs that have lost their roof over their heads and bring back the jobs that have been destroyed and open some new ones during the renovations that are ahead of us. Be assured that it is very important that each of us does nothing but do it in the next 100 days. And to ask what you were doing, so I wasn't answering the questions that were on the agenda here, I was just doing what I just said. I thank you once again for your patience to welcome the day you started today, and in any case, I repeat again regardless of the outcome of today's session and any other session, I invite you to work for the next 100 days on what a huge number of people in this country have been working on for the past 50 44 days, and I have been one of them. The fact that someone might have wanted to slap me, as they say, on the political slap of Bog, the people gave us all a slap on February 7th and so did I. Who's here for the degenecist we'll see, but that's not the theme of today's session of the agenda, I mean in a political sense, in any case, that word. And I thank you again for the support of the Foreign Ministry that we have received from respected representatives from the SDA and the SBB, because you may not be on this... party stand, so it was easier for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22562	Thank you. I'm asking the SDS if they're still for...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22563	Given this time Mr. Lagumdžija is talking about since we don't have time to pause, to work faster and...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22564	So you changed your mind. Okay. But he didn't change his mind about a esteemed HDZ colleague. Is it enough five minutes break for an insider deal, so we don't part ways?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22565	I'm on behalf of the club then looking for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22566	Wait a minute, wait a minute, please. Do you agree that we should come here at two o'clock (14:00), then vote and then take a break at three (15:00)? Do you agree? Thank you. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I hope that all those who wanted to vote have responded and that we should vote. I would like to remind you that we are voting on a decision to replace the BiH foreign minister who delivered during the SBB debate. Do you all have that decision with you, you don't need to read it? The question means who is in favour of the BiH foreign minister's replacement decision. You can prepare for the vote. Vote now. For 13, v. 18, abstention 5. There is no general majority for this decision. And as we agreed, I'm concluding this agenda point. At 3:00 p.m., we'll continue our work. 45 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22568	My colleagues and fellow MPs were asked by the president to continue the session, because of his preventability to continue the presidency. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 12.06.2014 with a request for urgent consideration. I'm opening a motion hearing. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, this important law called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Aviation Act is very important from the aspect of the normal functioning of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. However, my intention to introduce my esteemed colleagues to this Law and its amendments and additions unfortunately could not be realised and this is an opportunity to apologize to my fellow Members for not doing so, and that is why I suggest that you do not accept my proposal by emergency procedure and return it to normal procedure. So, I suggest you go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22571	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22572	If Mr Mešić did, then he suggested and, of course, he agrees, there is no need for me to discuss. I was going to support an emergency procedure and make some arguments, but here's to not taking time. We'll leave this behind when it starts in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22573	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22574	Well, I really respect what my colleague Mešić said that there is no basis for this law to be under emergency procedure because it is neither high-level urgency nor complex that 46 should be considered by emergency procedure. But what I want to ask him, given that this law is planned according to the Council of Ministers' plan, to be proposed in the 12th month of this year and to carry out all those consultations that are necessary to follow one law. I suggest he pulls this bill anyway and leaves an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to do their part of the job. Because if he's not going through an emergency procedure, it doesn't make sense that the MP is proposing him. A lot of pomp will be triggered by this Law, it will establish a new institution and will certainly require a lot of harmonisation on this subject in the Council of Ministers. I ask you, by appreciating the situation in which we find ourselves, that we have a very difficult time getting a pass, that you leave 9 ministers in the Council of Ministers easier to reach agreement than we are 42 here, I ask you to withdraw this Law and leave the possibility that, in December, it is proposed by the Council of Ministers and then await a new assembly of the House of Representatives to make a decision on it. Here, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22575	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're getting to the point of the five agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax - Proposer: Representative Niko Lozančić (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 07.04.2014. The Constitutional Foundation's Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 13.05.2014. The Financial and Budget Committee in charge delivered its opinion on the principles today. I'm opening a debate. Proposer, the esteemed representative Niko Lozančić, has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22577	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll... very short. So today, you, colleagues and colleagues, have in front of you a bill on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act because of the particularly pronounced difficulties in the functioning of the real sector and the problem with increased inequity in the BiH market. The intention was to extend the deadline until the 10th month following the end of... the period for 20 days and to extend the deadline for the VAT tax application and the payment of the VAT tax declared to be the end of the month following the end of the month to which it relates. The reasons are, I believe, well known to all of you. This will not be a great help to this real sector, but in any case it wants to facilitate the survival of still living taxpayers. Those who go bankrupt, those who disappear from the market, they will never pay a tax to anyone again. So, I am aware that one part of the proposal, which is in the final provisions that the Law enters into force on the eighth day of publication, is not enough period for institutions to adapt to the implementation of this Law. And if, and I ask you to support the principles of this Law today, if this Law passes in the first reading, here I am obliged to propose an amendment in the second reading to which we will extend the application of this Law for 01.01. of the following calendar year, i.e. 2015. Thank you very much. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22578	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to say that this law is an extremely significant contribution to improving the business environment for the business sector and that it should indeed be supported from that point of view. Of course, the alternative to trying to improve the business environment is even more effective, so to speak, which is to regulate the payment of value added tax on the principle of paid realisation. So, when tax is paid today when an account is made for the past month of invoiced supplies of goods or services and this proposal would be possible, is it somehow extremely favourable for the business sector only when that invoice is charged. However, what a significant contribution it is is to improve the conditions of the business sector that are otherwise in extremely large liquidity problems. This whole problem when quantified, so this proposal when quantified, translates into a digit language shows that we have a monthly VAT amount that is collected at the expense of the Directorate for indirect taxation, on average at a monthly level of 340 million marks. If you had a 10-day deadline for the previous month to pay now this proposal would still move 20 days and practically another 2/3 of that 340 or 226 million would remain the business sector for 20 days but would shorten the public sector and cause significant problems in the functioning of public finances. That was why I asked on the Finance and Budget Committee for the position of the Fiscal Council on this proposal. Namely, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board gave its negative opinion on this Law but explained it mainly to technical reasons, and did not enter into the fundamental problem of redistributing public revenues, especially in this dynamic aspect. So how to make up for 226 million marks that will not be on the account of the indirect tax administration on the 10th of the month for the past month and how to ensure, or compensate for, the lack of money that will appear in the accounts of entities and other users, the users of this money, and we know that value added tax is the main source of public revenue. My proposal was not supported, so yesterday the Law was adopted on the Commission, ratio 3:1 with a number of abstentions. I am now stressing that this Business Sector Act is indeed one step forward and should be accepted, but it produces inconspicuous, unclear consequences for the stability of public finances and can create major problems, especially in a situation where this system of public finances is fragile, unstable, and especially given the existing arrangement with the IMF that does not allow any change in the value added tax regime while the stand-by arrangement is going on. This is a new argument that I learned this morning in consultation with the Federal Government, and from there it is appealed to one panic even if this Law was not adopted, or to be suspended, that this Law would not be adopted because it would produce unconceivable consequences, especially given the high level of foreign loans we have in this year. The problem the Federation of BiH has certainly also has RS. And that is why I feel that the absence of consultation is through the Fiscal Council, although it is not necessary in the procedure of the law, that there is a great lack in preparation, or in the procedure in which this Law was introduced. Naima, we have had far less consequences and potential effects of laws on which colleagues from the RS insisted that an entity consultation be reached. Such important tasks, therefore, because of the absence of the activities of the Fiscal Council, have practically not passed the procedure of someone, as I would say, of the entity's statements. In fact, they are familiar with this Law but they believe that they are through the Management Board for indirect taxation, which gave a negative report and they themselves have pleaded against this Law. 48 So unfortunately, in this situation, the SDP will not support this Law because the circumstances stated suggest that this would be entering a major uncertainty, in a vague situation that is in the time after the flood, after the reduction of public revenues, anyway unstablely that area of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22580	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22581	Well, I have to say that I didn't feel the need to spend more than two, three minutes of reasons because I felt that it was more than clear to everyone, obviously, that this real sector, from which all these concerned and unsettled live, is increasingly working every day, is becoming more and more difficult every day to settle its obligations, each day growing higher on the basis of unsettled value added tax obligations, that every day we have fewer VAT-based users because many of them, figuratively speaking, are dead and they are no longer paying a tax to anyone, but they are not... nor a problem. At these findings, I have not suggested that any change in VAT be reduced by a single prominence, not by a single prominence to be reduced, only to be prolonged. So, it remains exactly the same value added tax as it is today, only those who paid it by the 10th have to pay it by the end of the month, 20 days stays and this is very..., come on..., some say a hundred million within the real sector, but here, so I said it was symbolic aid to this real sector. So there's no, I guarantee, there's no adverse consequences. Second, how do you make up for that? Recently, the other day... I listened to this spokesman from the D.A. who informed us that only one organized group a year from... took a billion, just one, God Bog it's the only one. So he's got the funds, he just needs them in the state register instead of in his private pockets. Now that's the state's thing to ensure that. Third thing, I could understand, and I understand any level of government in this country that is panicking right now because we have so many problems that we really should all panic, but I have to say I wish someone had initiated it, I wish we had opened the debate before the new IMF loan and in this House, to see who's going to pay it back. And if the only aid to this country is new credit obligations, I'm not sure, someone's gonna have to pay it back. And these credits will return this real sector, the one we're trying to choke at all costs, to which we won't even let the air breathe. The real sector should also return these loans, as neither governments nor parliaments return out of their pockets loans but the real sectors that fill the budget. So I don't know what we're not afraid of, except that we're afraid that, God Bog, we're going to do something good and that, God Bog, we're going to help at least a little bit to those of whom we all live, thanks to all of this. That's why I appeal once again, to say so, that you, I don't know either, panic, this, what, don't need to be this scared, I'm afraid of my credit duties much more than this. This to me...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22582	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22583	What Comrade Domazet was talking about is absolutely true, but the other side of the medal stands. The real question is why are we in a position for MPs to try to resolve things very seriously with their own initiatives, which you have been talking about for a little while, so one significant contribution, repairing the business environment, etc. So here is a serious issue of the role and positions of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, which is above this Parliament, practically, not only through giving these opinions on proposed legislative solutions, but through the possibility of amending and supplementing the law. We constantly have negative opinions with reasons of technical nature, starting from a higher rate over your proposal, which is completely acceptable to facilitate the return of debt, etc., regarding interest, so it stands since January, so they sent a negative opinion. Well, Mr. Lozančić is trying to fix something, and I trust you, and you're completely metric to say that this is fixing the business environment, etc., but we're being held hostage. So, I would know that these situations will shake up this board of directors that they creatively approach certain things I would say – Mr. Lozančić pulls it back, Mr. Domazet, pull it back. But I know he won't, they'll just talk now he can't, and technically he can't do this, and I can't do two feet, and we're practically exposed to the public as a legislative body. I'll support this law in the first reading, let's go ahead and deliver I don't mind and the Fiscal Council, let it analyze, but something has to start happening. We already have the situation, the concern and panic that some levels of government are raising loans to repay loans. And then it's that spiral that doesn't have a way out. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22584	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22585	Thank you. Here, I've been on this committee and we've been discussing this for a long time. One very important question before I start anything – Mr. Chairman, is there anyone here from the IRS? There isn't?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22586	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22587	You can't see. Because I, I said maybe someone hid somewhere, but that's the problem. I'm very angry, we've asked the Commission for opinions and explanations several times, and here we were in a dilemma yesterday, and we discussed it, I don't even know how long we stayed. When you get one of these from the Department of Direct Taxation, specifically from the Management Board of Management, then you see that we are really, really, defeated in that context, you know. This is a healthy initiative that I cannot support, I cannot support as a human because I come from the real sector even though I was restrained yesterday. I was restrained because I supported Mr. Domazet's proposal that this should be looked at by the Fiscal Council and I was restrained by the fact that no one, in my opinion, was relevant to that from the Department of indirect taxation, means that 50 explain these things to us. The lady who was, with all due respect, really tried to defend their position, but I'm thinking of defending some technical things now and there's no big need. In my opinion, what I expected in this response, because when I saw Mr. Lozančić's initiative, I expected a comment when it could be realistically entered into the implementation of this, how much time it takes, how much money it takes to change these servers eventually, it means what it would mean in all these financial flows here in BiH, how much to the budget, and how much in which way. And the way I look at it, we have only one dilemma here today, and that's what I forced yesterday, we have a dilemma of whether we're ready for the administration to be patient, means that the administration waits from the 10th practically by the end of the month, those 20 days to wait. So let's say, MPs don't get paid, when the salaries go through here, and I don't know, let's say 5 in the month, that it gets 25, that in various BiH institutions, it means, etc., that all of this is moved in 20 days. And that would be perfectly natural, and that would be perfectly normal, and that would, in my opinion, be helping the real sector. It doesn't get into any fiscal framework, miracles, Bog, so taxes stay on the same level. Here, now, if you want to read in this response to the Management Board of Direct Taxation, here you can read above the stamp above in 2013 the VAT revenue achieved was 4,086.990.000, etc., and 69.48%, respectively, of the total revenue obtained from indirect taxes. And really, so it's not a small number and it would change some things. And I expected someone to engage in an analysis of it, because there was plenty of time waiting, Mr. Lozančić's initiative was submitted in the fourth month. I expected that we would get one valid and quality answer here. And to be honest, when we were so determined yesterday in our views, here is Mr. Domazet and I and my colleagues who supported it, I was expecting at least today someone from the Direct Taxation Authority to come out and if we were really wrong yesterday on the Commission to come out and say, you gentlemen are wrong about that and that. Because really, we don't need to know that, I know that Mr. Domazet is the most guided of us, but here I want to be directed, not to be directed out of hand, and I don't want to be directed by members of a political party like my colleague Domazet, because I really don't trust a man, but I'm interested in that part of the profession, and I want them to go out and say theirs. But there's no one here today, and here I am only today in total confusion, I don't know what to do, because really, really this is, in my opinion, something that's real. Says the lady who defended this yesterday - you know there would be a little... social component, this, that. I mean, with all due respect to everyone and the social component and everything, I really think we need to turn to the real sector. Here's everywhere in the world, and even in the environment, people are turning to the real sector, helping however they can, the crisis is still killing us. So, it would mean a lot, I believe that the real sector would mean that this is being expanded in those 20 days. Here's the example I set yesterday, so in my company, people didn't get paid, and you don't know when they're going to get paid, but VAT is paid to 10. The invoice of the moment it is filled and sent is over, it's over, by the 10th of next month, the VAT must be paid and there are no choirs. It's 11. If you pay, you've got a ticket, and those fines aren't small at all, and it's not easy to get rid of them. And whoever gets into that chain of wheels to be punished, interest, interest on interest, it's over. What Mr. Lozančić is saying means it's very close to the flood. So I don't think these 20 days, we're not reducing the tax rate, we're not reducing anything, so these 20 days would be significant. And in the end, here it would be concrete here from this House, morally, that we might send it. But on the other hand, maybe those gentlemen at the IRS have some arguments that we don't know, but here we are not going to find out today. I still don't know what to do, I still don't know what, and I'm breaking up, so it means how and how to do it. So a really healthy one initiative, but I definitely don't think we have enough information on all this. Here, we don't know from what point of time it might start implementation, 51 if it takes a month, whether it should be 01.01, if it takes them 5 years. Well, somebody says we need five years, five years, no problem at all. Let's make it better in five years. So definitely in this context today it's up to us here to decide, we're literally in the fog about this whole thing, a very important issue and a very healthy initiative. And whoever said this, Mr. Belkić, means it should, it would be good to sometimes come from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, it would be good to sometimes come from the Council of Ministers, not literally inventing such good and healthy initiatives here. We're literally making them up and maybe, in fact, it's not maybe, but there's probably a whole bunch of other good and better things that we could influence here to try to help this business sector a little, because it's really hard for people. It's really hard for people, and maybe this would be a little help for them. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22588	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22589	Thank you. I want to say why I was restrained when it comes to the bill. The situation of the BiH economy and the general state of the citizens' standards tells us everything, unemployment, trade deficits, our growing debt, and our gross domestic product does not grow either. So, simply BiH is economically lagging behind and falling apart. That is why they need such laws and similar to these laws, but I think this is quite insufficient, a drop in the sea of what BiH should be, and especially when it comes to tax policy. This policy cannot be brought ad hoc, this policy should be a strategy for a longer period so that it can be seriously invested and that it could seriously be counted on the profit that is desired... In BiH, it's not a problem to work, we can all work for free, but there's no profit, and that's why nobody works, because there's no profit. And there's no profit because politics is the best profit. Gentlemen in BiH... the best profit policy, and let's not forget that besides politics we have workers, unions, we have employers who also want profits. We sucked everything into our own hands and the best profit is politics, because in politics just not late wages, in politics there are salaries higher than real. Gentlemen, we need to change that policy, and this is about economic measures. And this is one of the economic measures, or fiscal policy, but it is insufficient at the end of the term of office. I think it should be done by some new parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22590	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on indirect taxation – Proposer: MP Niko Lozančić (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 07.04. and the Constitutional Commission is... _________(?) 52 [[no microphone turned on]] No, but we have two. Then it's... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22595	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, first of all, I'm going to comment on this as an introduction to some of the future times of those who are thinking about this topic. The fact that we are processing an indirect taxation system in multiple laws may speak for ourselves. Personally, I don't think there was any need for the three or four laws to process one and the same subject, but since then. There are another of two laws on the indirect taxation system, on the distribution of income, etc. So this is specifically about the Law on indirect taxation. What is the essence of the bill? In Article 2, as stated in the reasoning of this Act, it is said that in all administrative procedures carried out in the indirect taxation system, the General Administrative Procedure Act will apply in principle, which is quite understandable to me, because the administrative procedure is administrative, and as long as it is conducted, wherever it is taken, it is logical to apply the principles of the Administrative Procedure Act. However, what doesn't make sense to me, and I've intervened in these amendments and additions to the law, is the fact that under the General Administrative Procedure Act, the deadline for solving the most complex cases in the administrative procedure is 60 days or 2 months. So, the Law on the indirect taxation procedure has said in several of its articles about one and the same formulation – if this Law does not solve the deadline for action is 6 months. I have to say that I don't see any 53, but exactly, although they've been trying to explain to us that these are complex procedures, that it is, etc. So, when a taxpayer is required to state a complaint if he is unhappy with some procedure by one of the authorities of the indirect taxation authority, he has been left with a deadline of 5 days, and that is quite sufficient for him. He must be an expert in the indirect taxation system so that he can file a complaint within 5 days. When the Direct Taxation Authority solves his objection, and there's dozens, hundreds of experts, it takes her six months. Well, it doesn't have anything, it doesn't matter, it doesn't make sense. And I think that these solutions, no matter how much they justify, were yesterday the lady whom her colleague... was trying to explain that these were specially complex checks, particularly complex procedures, etc., I think there's a fierce unhappiness here, one fierce slowdown, one fierce inertness. Because people would accept that they have to finish the job in two months when the law allows them for six. And normally I understand them that they defend that position. So, I understand them, but I understand the needs of the real sector, because in the law, both on VAT and on the indirect taxation procedure, it is said everywhere that the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. And then, for example, a tax inspector comes to you and gives you a misdemeanor order on 200-300 thousand marks, 500 shower marks with this kind of explanation. And you dissatisfied, you have a problem, you think it wasn't good, etc., and that's why it's scheduled, and you're complaining. But the fact that you're complaining doesn't matter lightly, you're going through with this, and you have to pay that fine. If you don't pay the fine, they're going to tighten the interest. And that procedure, one particular example I had, so I studied, lasted a year, not six months, but a year and a half. In the meantime, you've had a tight interest increase. And be careful, so you don't often get to complain there are other instruments that, maybe it's smarter if I don't talk now, how you're made not to complain. And we have, people have told me concrete examples, of dozens of small, medium-sized enterprises, which, for that reason, came under bankruptcy. I am merely proposing this Law, meaning nothing special again, anything revolutionary, only that, indeed, as stated in the law itself in Article 2 apply the principles of the general administrative procedure and that the deadlines laid down in that Law be respected. And I say responsibly, whatever, as much as they mystify, means people who work at the Administration, that these are some jobs that take six months, there's no administrative procedure that can't be completed in two months. I also suggested that this deadline for appeal, and it is symbolic because everywhere in the administrative procedure is the deadline for objecting to the appeal for the shortest 8 days, that it be incorporated into this Law that it is 8 days. And here I call upon you to uphold the principles of this law and to bring this law in line with ourselves... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22596	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, or suspending the legislative procedure The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 07.05.2014. At the 67th session of the House, held on 28.05.2014, no negative opinion of the relevant Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics was adopted, and the Commission is responsible for in accordance with Article 107(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure draw up a new opinion on the bill. 54 The Commission requested an extension of the time limit for submission of its opinion on 10.06.2014. The Kolegijum extended the deadline until the next meeting of the House on 03.07.2014. On 2 July 2014, the Commission reiterated its request for an extension of the time limit for submission of the opinion because the Commission's meeting was not held due to the lack of quorum. In view of the fact that the Commission has requested an extension of the deadline for the second time, this point has been reformed in accordance with Article 104a(3). Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22599	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, there are a few dilemmas about this law, but I'm not going on about these dilemmas right now. We will today support the law in first reading, supported by the Constitutional Commission, but I will have amendments that will try to bring some of the solutions under this Law in line with the principles set out for the evaluation of judges and prosecutors in BiH. So our final position, therefore, will be to support the law in the first reading, and the final view of the law in the second reading will depend on the amendments that we make to this Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22600	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22601	Well, I would just, of course, I support this law and I think it's a step in the right direction, I'd just point out something that might be just a technical or spelling problem. In Article 1 below at bottom, paragraph 9, I do not know how to describe the whole case, in the assessment of the work, says so – on the assessment of the work of judges, the President of the Court, the Chief Prosecutor, etc. So, here you need to do some red tape in terms of the judge's assessment, this is the Croatian variant of the law, I don't know if in other variants is a similar problem, the problem is with the crashes or I don't know what, you should stand, so on the judge's score, there's a decimal missing, not just a fall, the president of the court, etc., and then everything makes sense. There's only that much, thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22602	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22603	In short, I just want to say that the RS has long insisted on ending a structural dialogue that should address certain issues that are related to the organisation of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council itself, as well as its competences. Since this has been a long time, it has ended. And if the original version of the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council had not received support in the Council of Ministers, this is now some transitional solution that would only practically supplement the law on the assessment of the holders of judicial functions. Therefore, the new text of Law 53a. We believe that this is inadmissible, that this in no way solves the issues raised in terms of jurisdiction and how the High Court and Prosecutorial Council works, and therefore we cannot accept such cosmetic changes to such a significant law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22604	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22605	Thank you, Chairman. I was abstentioned on the Constitutional Commission regarding the amendments and additions to this law, also citing the reasons for what my colleague Majkić said. By the way, I don't think the concept of the High Court and Prosecution Council is responding, it's not applicable to our opportunities, and it's going to have to change one day, the sooner the better. Structural dialogue obviously doesn't produce results, because they're not put there first, I mean even competent people, but people who work in the judiciary, the prosecution and the courts. I think that's what people should do outside those frameworks, of course, with consultations with them. The High Court and Prosecutorial Council, its structure is prosecutors, lawyers and judges. You have a right one rule... You can't judge your own thing. [[isn't understood because it's turned from a microphone]] In fact, it comes down to prosecutors, that the prosecutor is a party in the process. How can he be there to appoint a judge, or vice versa, etc. I think it's an extreme kind of concept that is absolutely not applicable to our opportunities, that I'm not talking about, that could go into mentality, our subjective relationship to certain things,..., etc., etc. It's all there and we've chosen the worst concept there is. So no one has that, they've all changed that concept. It is a commission, i.e. that Council can count the largest number of judges, but also the people of Parliament. So, people from Parliament, professional people, professor of the University, etc., and do not put together an interested group – judge, lawyer and prosecutor. So that's bullshit, I have to say, it's kind of embarrassing to me, but something like that is unimaginable. And I think it has to change. However, this is not the subject of this amendment, I mention. I would also not be if it were partial, not for a partial acceptance, but for the High Judicial Council to be put on the agenda. And secondly, just grading judges. You know, 56 when it comes to management and when it comes to the judiciary, I think that there are happier solutions when collectiveity, the commission evaluates individuals, not when an individual evaluates individuals, assumed, because again there are these subjective relationships and often people get hurt, especially with us now mobing, chicing, etc., etc. Therefore, this should also be considered when it comes to the concept of assessing, or valorising, someone's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22606	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Commission Report College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Home of the People of the Parlametary Assembly of BiH The College has not reached agreement on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. There's no discussion here. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on the Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22609	Thank you. 57 We move to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on impact review carried out on the subject: "Possibilities for effective work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency", material of BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was delivered in the procedure on 03.06.2014. The financial and budgetary committee responsible has delivered its Opinion on the Report today. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. BiH Council of Ministers' 2013 work report
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22612	I thank the chairman. I want to state the position of the SBB that we will support this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, although there is nothing spectacular, we have even a lot of objections to this work in this part, but this is the 2013 report that came at this moment. And I would draw one more attention to that debate about the 3rd point that the SBB supported the 2013 report and asked for a shift for 2014. But here, for the third time, you would direct one question and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers – Are we so rich that individual agencies, professional councils, are we unable to change after 5.5 or 6 years? Where do these problems arise when it is clearly in the interest of the citizens of BiH? Here I'm going to ask a direct question that I also delivered in writing. The answer I received from the Ministry of Civil Affairs was that a year and a half ago a list of candidates for the Professional Council of the Medicines Agency has not been appointed today and has been working for 5.5 years. Unfortunately, after 5.5 years, nothing has done to make a single Regulation and maximum drug prices in BiH where we lose 100 million marks at least annually. Secondly, there is a Commission on Medicinal Products that has been working again for 6.5 years. In 2008, when it was formed only in 2009 it made a proposal for an essential list of medicines that were not agreed and never again. Do we need an absolute Committee on Medicinal Products if we are unable to make an essential list of medicines based on which to make the other part according to the law and the rules? And whether there is enough time in the operating system to agree that not even after four years of individual mandates to execute the election of managers, directors or deputies of individual agencies, rather than to run the tape in very important agencies. Well, we had a RAC system that, I don't know how long it's been, so we had a system, here's who, but the Medicines Agency. Whose interests prevailed over the interests of the citizens? I am asking for a clear answer, I have sought in writing on several occasions, and I have also asked the Council of Ministers for the Council of Speakers in this meeting and in the previous session, as these two mandates are concerned. It is unclear that something cannot be done after 3 years of the end of the term of office or after a year and a half or two years since the end of the term of office, and is aware of the pressure of this Parliament to make the maximum price of medicines in BiH based on which to make lists of medicines within entities. That this list of medicines was promised by the Agency for Medicinal Products to be completed in 03.05.2014, and my information that this list of medicines is finished, delivered to the Council of Ministers, not until today, this list of medicines has not been discussed, but is still going at that maximum price of medicines, as it was then promised to reduce the price of medicines by 10%. 59 Dear colleagues and colleagues, the trafficking of medicines in BiH only on prescriptions issued by health insurance companies is 500 million marks. If it decreases by 10%, it's 50 million savings. Isn't that the process in this section to help citizens, to free up health funds, and especially if we are already connecting to a system of floods and situations where, directly, it means, direct assistance to citizens, the health system. And I think it's time for us to respect the appointment deadlines of the director, let the political parties negotiate, let them respect the legal deadlines, because this has even some third dimension. And believe me, I can't keep my mouth shut, and I won't, and then I'll move towards the D.A.'s office to move certain things. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22613	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22614	Thank you. The work of the Council of Ministers would be rated as one ship spinning in circles and floats. So when there's no target every time it's good. Mr. President of the Council of Ministers Bevanda, a capable man I know personally, is headed by the Council of Ministers, but if you have no goal then you don't know where to go. It is obvious that the forces that want to make BiH an impossible state have prevailed in this assembly of parliament. And we're just hurting ourselves. I'm not so much in love with that BiH, that I'm a patriot big, this one, I'm a real man who I think is at this point the most rational solution of BiH. How independent are we? Very little, we also see neighbouring Croatia as being independent of the EU. So we're where we are. But why domestic policies destroy themselves, every single nation and citizen, so this policy that we have led last year. So, we've just reversed the citizens, we're in charge of an additional 349.20(?) millions of KM additional, unemployment in the real sector has even fallen, so we haven't had the growth of gross domestic product. So we're destroying ourselves. These are policies, responsible policies. But, gentlemen, here's the election ahead of us, we need to explain to the citizens why we've done all this and such policies, I'll be abstention to the work of the Council, because I against the ministers, I personally know all people, I know and I think they're capable of leading and being in the Council of Ministers but with a different policy and different tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22615	Thank you. The next honourable Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22616	Well, I have a few really previous questions I'd like to answer. It never happened that the Council of Ministers' report was not followed, was accompanied by the opinion of all committees. So this is the first time that we have an incomplete report from the aspect of the processing within Parliament. Secondly, as chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, I have not delivered a report for two reasons. The first is that we have late received jurisdiction from the second 60 Houses, and the second is that we are, our members are absent from participation in the work of the Council of Europe. So we couldn't have a quorum to hold the session. And therefore, a complete defence security sector has been left without the Joint Commission's opinion. That's never happened before. And as a highlight of all this, for the first time, we have that now some of the opinions of the commission are negative. If one opinion is negative, does this mean that the Council of Ministers' report is assessed negatively. We don't have a business definition of what that means. Should we return to the other commissions that such a report has brought, to act like other things when we disagree with the Commission's opinion? I would really ask someone to give an interpretation about it, but I can't believe we're gonna make a decision without having all the opinions of the committee to follow this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22617	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22618	I thank the chairman. Well, my colleague, Majkić, is absolutely right. So it's obvious that some parts of the report, parts... of some ministries, are not what it's supposed to be. Unfortunately, today we see only the chairman of the Council of Ministers, two ministers. The entire Council of Ministers should be sitting here today. And it's not their problem, it's not just their irresponsibility that they're not all here. Let's say, here's something I might ask Minister Špirić or Minister Lagumdžija, but I don't have a chance. This is about whether we want to, and we are constantly complaining that in this country there is a hack in this Parliament, that this Parliament is the most called in this country, that MPs are the ones who are the most irresponsible, and then we see here, says the Council of Ministers adopted 30 laws. All right, how many of those laws got support here? Or... why didn't they get it? Because the Council of Ministers in advance when he adopted them and knew he wouldn't get them. And here's the question of whether we, unfortunately, are going to end the term of office, should have set those rules at the beginning of the term of office, allow. Because we are essentially being bossed by the Council of Ministers, Parliament, by the legislative authority. People behave as they please. Excuse the chairman, this does not apply to you, but it does refer to those ministers who, by their very lack of arrival here, have shown their relationship with this House. And it is whether we want to preserve the dignity of this House, whether we want to preserve our personal dignity, or whether we want to let people behave like this. So imagine I ask you in a democratic country to discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers or Government, as it is already called, and not to show up ministers. Well, I'm ashamed. And all colleagues have probably had a chance, when we talk to colleagues from other parliaments, so when they start talking about how every commission session doesn't come to them, anyone from the ministry, but the minister comes, and then the minister comes for hours. I didn't have the honour and pleasure, it seems to me once that Minister Nović appeared on my commission and never again a minister. I think the best thing is, we may have been a little late to say in the beginning, that we sit this out nicely and that at the end of this term, at the Council of Ministers, we show that it is the legislative authority that is above the Council of Ministers and that at least so much legislative authority should respect that everyone should come when the report on the work of the Council of Ministers is discussed. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22619	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22620	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, guests. Today we have debated already within the framework I think the second, third points of the agenda on the Council of Ministers, each in its own way, and shown how we use, as Mr. President said, that huge tool, the weapons we have, when it comes to ministers and the Council of Ministers. I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the fact that the report on the work for the past year was delivered to... parliamentary procedure, and we remember the time when these reports were not delivered at all, so I'm a little bit of a positive surprise, so where does the report come from, because I know the conditions in which the Council of Ministers works. I know the chairman of the Council of Ministers would like all ministers to be here, but that's also about the condition, the overall environment. Here in this House there is no one but two, three, is there, who was not the government in the last year, this is for last year's report, it's not for this one, so we've had paradoxical situations today. We're looking for a minister's shift and we support his work, I think, etc. We're criticizing the work, I guess, thinking this is the report for this year, but it's not. We praise our minister who was part of the Council of Ministers, etc. Fortunately, and I think it is especially for the chairman and this Council of Ministers' meeting, is it, lucky that the elections are fast, because I think none of them want elections anymore, because there is nothing more ungrateful than being executive power in such a political environment, in a political space where, as some have observed today, parliamentary majority are being established from point to point of order, and not from session to session. One time we had one session to session, year to year, now we're from point to point of order, depending. And now... the Honorable Minister Čolak to do anything, so a man must do, propose, comply with the laws. But I've been following something for the last year or two days, I don't know how many bill proposals no one can pass. Not because of him, but because he's such a political ambience, I mean, we don't have a common minority attitude around anything. We here, we here, not the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers agreed and sent us a few things. When one of us takes it and suggests a law of some kind, especially the more modest one, I don't know either, shorter, etc., knows how much effort it takes to make and how much it takes to go to meetings of different committees and then come here to Parliament, someone doesn't read it to you, but it's against you. Now you can imagine the frustration of ministers in the Council of Ministers or the entire Council of Ministers when the same effort is made, so it is negotiated, negotiated, etc., to reach some kind of compromise, and come here to Parliament, and then the majority, under the allegations, which is very, very fluid, says – if not, you did it for free. And now the Council of Ministers is expected again. At least I am not satisfied with the overall situation in the country in general, but I cannot, I have no face to criticise the Council of Ministers, no matter who sat in that Council of Ministers, means because I am simply aware that people are not responsible for such a situation. There are a lot of other circumstances that affect the way things work. And finally, the fact that this is the 12th item of the agenda is what we think is important report on the work of the Council of Ministers. So, the fact that we don't have any more or no more big needs, I've reported more, to be honest, to say, uh, welcome to the president and the two ministers who respect this House, so they came to the House meeting when they discussed their report. And here, out of respect for the efforts they make, we will support the report on the work and I call on everyone else to support the Council of Ministers' work report. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22621	Who happened to be from your party, ate. I do, though. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22622	Here, I'll do it very briefly. So we have practically and in some ways carried out a good part of the debate on the work of the Council of Ministers through this debate concerning the SBB initiative. However, I would like to say that if we did not go over these facts that are highlighted here, related to the procedure and way of considering and adopting the Council of Ministers' report on the work. I talked about it last year, however, unfortunately also in the procedure of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, we missed some things to resolve. So, to resolve the question, in what way the commissions are considering whether the overall, individually, whether the summary report is being made, etc., whether this is a special item of the agenda for the special session, whether adoption, non-adoptment of the report raises questions about the survival of the Council of Ministers, etc. So, a series of open questions that obviously we will not solve in our term of office. But here, by the time I got back, my position was determined by the status, so to speak, the opposition parties and we will vote against the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22623	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22624	I'm gonna cut this short, so let me just say a few words and even answer some of the questions that are being asked here. So, what I'm saying is that the report was done in a way, according to the methodology of the report, while we respected everything that was in the adoption, that is, the presentation of last year's Report from one and another home of Parliament, and among other things, that the report and the Information on the work on European integration should be specifically addressed and processed. We have done this in particular in this report, set it up, and result in a negative report from the commission that discussed it. So it would have been better if we hadn't put that on. I must say that I was not invited to this committee either, that neither was Mrs Savić present, but that resulted in a negative attitude. This is what we have tried to cover in one place all the activities we have had in the EU accession process. I know that we are resented that, that the Council of Ministers is responsible for the failure of the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg and the special coordination mechanism. That's the conclusion of the commission we got in writing. And I know what the result of the vote was, that those who are responsible for everything that... it wasn't so voted and accused the Council of Ministers that it was wrong. The work of some institutions is not covered by this Report because the methodology is such, but it was important for it to function. We also did not deal with what was not foreseen in the methodology. It was just said that we had proposed 30 laws, 30 laws went to Parliament and believe, at least for those of whom 90% were unanimously adopted, that we believed that we had a parliamentary majority and that they would pass. So we didn't believe for sure if we all raised our hands that it wouldn't go away. Maybe it was some kind of political naive. The data are given by methodology in planned and realised and they are objective, not haired, and exactly show what has been done and what has not been done. Also, although there will likely be 63 comments again, this is about the Council of Ministers' report and covers what is in their jurisdiction. And I repeat, and that's probably the answer to Mr. Lijanović, the gross jurisdiction is at entity and county level, but it can always be, perfectly normal if there's some synergy that we have a coordination mechanism probably would work, but here we don't have it. In this House, we do not tend to deal with life issues such as health care, education, science, culture, sport, social policy, the pension system and the economy. We can work, we can create, but I just think that a great effort has been made to establish that part of the coordination. Unfortunately, it's going very, very hard. I also have to say the part that applies - the attitude towards Parliament. So, I gave a written order to all ministers, as I did last time, to be at the Council of Ministers meeting and I think you're right when you say that when you consider the Work Report, everyone or at least their valid representatives should be present. In any case, since last year there was a question – what is the biggest failure, surely the biggest failure is the lack of consensus on the effective coordination mechanism between different levels of government, because it could be a pattern that would not only apply to European integration, but also through this system of natural disasters and everything else. It's also known history, that I don't bother you, and where it's stalled and why we don't have it. I won't talk about what was good in the work of the Council of Ministers, because anything that doesn't work at entity levels is very easy to transfer to the state level. And I only think about the rain that will fall tomorrow or not fall is not wrong with this Council of Ministers. In the end, I just told you, Mr. Đugum is, and I was thinking whether to say it or not, but here's the thing, you're right. You're right when you say about the Drug Agency, there's a lot of media spin and you can say it, but it can apply to any area. You know how nameless the RAC was, I guess no one was bothered when the Council of Ministers returned the request for the appointment of the head of the RAC for the reason it sought only, so the sekretarijat asked the secretariat to supplement the material to the names of the people who competed. And then he comes back to us and says, "You have no right to ask." I want to tell you that part of the story, and it's probably going to be a spin, and I believe it, media there, but it's also wondering why the head of the RAC isn't appointed, and this one's been unknowing for how many decades at the head of the Agency. As for, for example, let me just give you an example, the Medicines Agency. You know the Expert Council as it is called, two entity governments and the Brcko District suggest it. I put it in the session. The proposal that was to be adopted, four, it numbers seven members of the Council, has been proposed four from one nation, two from the other and one from the third. And it's up to you to pick a director who's supposed to be from that people who have four members of the Expert Council. If it's fair and fair, and if it's up to you to lift a haranga around it, it was on the Council, that should have been a voice from every nation in that second circle. It wasn't there, and we asked for a correction. We didn't get it until today. If that's what it's supposed to be, because it's press pressure, it's done, it's the only thing I'll ever support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22625	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. This is all about it now, isn't it? Okay. Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22626	I want to thank President Bevanda for the answer in this section. I'm aware of all this, but we can't allow and there must be other control packages or mechanisms. There is a mechanism to control the price of medicines to be said – the price of medicines in the entity is too expensive and is not in accordance with the Regulation. Then hand over where it's due to surrender. If you cannot choose, and if there is no political consensus on the selection of members or managers in the Agency, you must not allow such money to be thrown away where you don't need to and who knows everything. For this reason, please, there are mechanisms in which you can clearly... the price of medicines under the existing Regulation that is at BiH level to calculate and say who manipulates it and who, I say, leads to the withdrawal of the patient from the pocket of the healthcare system, at the expense of pharmaceutical lobbies. And then it has to be done if we can't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22627	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22628	Well, regarding the environment, i.e. standards, BiH's economy, this Parliament and the Council of Ministers have even a key role to play in creating frameworks. No one in BiH can be in charge because we don't raise our hands here, no one out there. So, there's a mechanism. Fiskal, therefore, key economic policies are fiscal, monetary, external-traded in the hands of the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. The fiscal policy pillar of VAT, excises, customs, tolls, 5 billion and something in our hands. It's an ambience to work. I agree that implementation on entities, and bad implementation can ruin our frameworks, but we don't set up good frameworks either. Foreign trade policy, agricultural deficits only in agricultural and food products 2 billion KM, agricultural-food product, exports of billions, imports of three ccas. Two billion, and a smart economic foreign-trade policy, the truth in collaboration with entities, can be zero, and very soon, in half a term. So this is what I was going to mention, to say that it's in us, it's in the hands of that shallow thing a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22629	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few sentences about this. In any case, I think that the progress made by the chairman of the Council of Ministers is to be held at the session and defends his report from the previous years when we did not have the honor. Not just in this term, but I'm referencing to all the mandates so far. Let's see what possible blockades are like to consider this report and see where our mistakes are in this regard. Namely, the report was delivered to all of you to the MPs on 29.05. Niko one can convince me that within a month there wasn't enough time for the committees to call and discuss the report, no one. There are no excuses here for drinking water, for leaving any MPs on trips and other stories. There's our personal responsibility as an MP. On the other hand, I ask what if one commission 65 won't or can't make a report and all the other committees and all the other MPs should wait for their report to just come, so that it can be considered here at all. The third thing, what if one of the commissions... is a negative opinion on what we should do, as is the legislative procedure here to return to review, so the second time the commission doesn't give a report, so we can't discuss the Council of Ministers report at all because twice some commission has given a negative report. My fellow Members and fellow Members, today in the debate on the agenda could suggest that this item be removed from the agenda, I intended to put it to the vote because the College failed to agree, so the Extended College put it on the agenda most of the votes, if you didn't think we should discuss it today. But I've only given you a few blocks as much as it could have been about whether or not we could even discuss it, but I would remind you of Article 163. The Rules of Procedure which says, in the last sentence, that I do not specify what we had to do – after the debate, the House may, by means of a resolution, express its political position on the report submitted. Has anyone submitted any resolutions? Did someone say anything about this report, or was it just supposed to come out and say that, well, it's not right that we've been doing it like this today, etc., etc. Come on, get back to your jobs, look at some rules of procedure, thank the Council of Ministers for coming, and those who haven't been doing their job should do it in the meantime. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH The report was delivered to the procedure on 09.06. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Report on 01.07. The report was adopted and sent to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22633	A few sentences. So, the intention is to recommend to the Presidency, which means that the Presidency is able to appreciate and assess whether it will open the process. It is also intended to remind us that there is a constitutional possibility, so in moments and situations when we talk a lot about the co-ordination mechanism, we forget that there is a constitutional possibility that the BiH Presidency can launch any important issues, which it appreciates, interlocutors, talks, negotiations on resolving certain things that are not within the jurisdiction of the state, and are necessary to address some of the general problems in the country. So that's, in that direction this initiative is going and I'm really asking you to support it to kind of open, remind the Presidency that there's this possibility when it's estimated. Of course, the ultimate entity will say whether they're interested or not, but let's open up that possibility before. According to this thing, we have regional co-operation, recently held a meeting of states from the Sava River Basin where ministers were, etc., agreeing and resolving joint measures to prevent floods. In front of our country I saw Mr Ivanković, not Mladen but Jerk, I don't know if he was, he was also a minister from the RS, but it would be good, according to the information I have, there is no coordination between the entity and Brcko District, about agreeing certain measures and activities Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22634	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Consideration of Magdalena Papić's resignation as elected member of the Office to discuss complaints among recognised management law experts from the Federation of BiH Magdalena Papić resigned from office as a member of the Office on 26 June 2014 to discuss complaints for personal reasons. This item is included in the agenda by decision of the Kolegijum and the Expansive College. 67 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We move on to, before we move to point 17. I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 17 to 21 of the agenda is united because it is about giving consent to the ratification of materials. I'm putting a motion to vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. I'm how much I count here 18 plus 2 is 20 total. There's no quorum. And we're gonna take this situation out in a way that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22640	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22641	What? You give up, you go to regular procedure? Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22642	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-07-03-0.u22643	I'm sorry, I wasn't at that part. Thank you. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax – Proposer: Ambassador Niko Lozančić, (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 9, versus 19, abstention 5. This law didn't pass. Moving to point 6. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on indirect taxation – Proposer: Ambassador Niko Lozančić, (first reading). Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 9, versus 19, abstention 5.. I konstatovati this bill didn't get most of it either. Moving to point 7. – Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH or suspending the legislative procedure. My colleagues and colleagues, given that no proposal has come either, there was no debate at all, and I will first put to the vote the suspension of the legislative procedure on this predlog, and after that, as a College, we will propose that this law be discussed by the next deadline, so you know what we are voting on now. We are voting on the suspension of the legislative procedure. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. _________(?) 69 [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDP Club, the re-election. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 16, against 16, abstention 1. He doesn't have a general majority. Now we vote to give a new deadline, second time, for delivering an opinion until next session of the House. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 27, against 3 abstentions 3. I konstatovati that we have given our commission a new deadline, until the next session of the House, to deliver an opinion. Moving to point 8. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading). Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 22, against 11, there were no abstentions. The college has agreed to go to the second round immediately. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 21, against 11, abstention 1. 2/3 of RS is against it. I realize this bill didn't pass in the first reading. Moving to point 9. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Home of the People of the Parlametary Assembly of BiH. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion in the second round. I warn, if the opinion is adopted, the proposal has been rejected, Article 107(2). The Rules of Procedure, unless the opinion is adopted, shall be entrusted to the Commission to draw up a new opinion. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. In 21... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
