ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20168	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 64th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the Presidency, as well as the Council of Ministers of BiH, international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, the media. The session also invites representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, the Committee on Appeals of Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the parliamentary military commissioner, whose reports are on the agenda of today's session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session, or delay, was announced by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Thirty-two MPs are present right now. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. Point 20 is added to the agenda. Information on the preparation of the conditions for the use of the new pre-accession assistance instrument of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 Point 6 with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, which is negative for the second time, has been updated with regard to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Organisations. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20169	So, the SDS has proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law by emergency procedure to be included in the agenda of the House of Representatives. The extended college also rejected the request, with the reason that the procedure already included the Amendment Law and the amendments of the Electoral Law by the SDP. And it is true that the Rules of Procedure say that they cannot be in the same procedure as two of the same bill proposals, namely the same theme, but the SDS calls for precedents that occurred in earlier times of the Assembly meeting, given that this is about a law that should allow, if extraordinary elections take place in the last year of office, those people elected in the extraordinary elections have a term of four years in the performance of their functions, and thus avoided the situation to eventually leave the possibility of re-elections after two or three months. 2 So, this bill is also proposed to open such an opportunity in BiH in general for crisis situations to be dealt with by emergency elections. BiH has a big problem that when it comes to the political crisis, as normal democratic states, it cannot call emergency elections to resolve the political crisis. And that is why the SDS proposed by emergency procedure this bill so that those who have the parliamentary majority would be able to make decisions whether they were smarter to wait for October and go to elections, or whether this political crisis would be resolved by making early elections within the shortest period of time. This is why we propose again that the House of Representatives vote on our proposal to put this law on the agenda of today's session, although I repeat, there is a business provision that can prevent it from appearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20170	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20171	Dear Chairman, respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you all and wish to work successfully at today's session. In his last sentence, Bosić actually said the essence, he confirmed that he proposed something contrary to the Business House. And that, as far as we're concerned, this story ends, with a part of the exposure in which it indicates the need to introduce an emergency election in the way that the SDS presented it through the media, so on the four-year Mandan, is something that is absolutely acceptable to us as the SDP Club. And that's why we put the law procedure that regulates that area before the SDS came up with such brilliant ideas, and it's on the agenda today. Therefore, I think the situation is clear and that we should not waste time. And if the SDS really intends to deal seriously with the possibility of holding emergency elections, I call on them to support the bill proposed by the SDP, and if the intention is to wage a political war in the RS, first and foremost with the SNSD, then it is fair to be told, so we too will treat ourselves that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20172	Thank you. Replica reply, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20173	So first of all, let me explain that this isn't about two of the same things. The SDP proposal envisions that the BiH Parliament has the right to disband all levels of government in BiH. So, both entity and municipal levels of government. And the proposal came from the SDP with their knowledge that RS parliamentarians would certainly not support something like that. And that proposal was predicated to failure and it is clear that it is demagogue nature. We don't mind leaving that proposal, although there is a problem with the procedural reporting of that agenda point, which we do not insist on. 3 It was reported as, the promoter appeared to the SDP MPs' club, not MPs or a group of MPs, as planned. But here, we think we need to discuss these things. But I'm actually calling here for a short time until the next election. That's why this point is proposed by an emergency procedure. If you're going to postpone that, if we're going to discuss it in two or three months in a regular procedure, we better not even discuss it. So I urge that the point be placed on the agenda and that it be either accepted or rejected and that story ends at this stage, seven months before the call, or the general election.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20174	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20175	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Bosić, you've actually taken a stenogram and my discussion since December 05, you've only repeated it. I then called, likely to remember and respected counterpart Belkić, that in the last session of this Parliament, because in the College we couldn't agree, this House decided that I could put in place points that treated the same matter, and remember that the Law on Police, the Police Body Coordination Agency in three forms was on the agenda of a session. At your request, we are here, and this Parliament voted on December 05, 2013 that my proposal for an emergency procedure of the Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law was not put in place, because we also did not have agreement in the College. This House, therefore, has made practice, unlike the previous one, calling for the same name of the bill, regardless of whether they are in an emergency, shortened or regular process, to be unable to put them on the agenda. And we ended the story in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. When there is no agreement in the College on one issue, it is not settled by the Rules of Procedure, this House has the right to decide. And here we are now discussing with colleagues in the College, we can't even put your proposal on the agenda, because Dom already did it once, and put practice here, and that's what happens when we're not princely. This isn't about whether it's someone for your bill or SDP's bill, we'll get to the bottom of it when it comes to the agenda, here's the question of whether we can procedurally finish it. Obviously, when we're not principled, we fall into a trap every time. We cannot, unfortunately, put your proposal at all to the vote, because this House has established practice that the proposed laws that treat the same matter cannot be found at the same session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20176	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, guests. 4 Well, a replica to the presentation of Mr. Bosić, in only one sentence. You've explained everything, Mr. Bosić. You have the right to suggest what you want. Where do you get the right to tell someone what's smart here? What isn't? Well, I guess I do, so here's my second term, which I'm smart about. I'm smart not to be with you. If I were with you, I'd be ruined. Secondly, I'm not going to be a candidate, so I'm going to fight for something if there's going to be five months of elections, so you're fighting only for BiH. So finely told you, dear colleague Magazinović, all the accidents you're making to the RS, at all levels, you want to transfer here. And now you're fighting for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20178	Please, we're on the agenda, come on, we'll have time for the session...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20179	Well, it's the agenda. Mr. Chairman, it's the agenda. I can't let anyone say and decide where the right to tell him what's right with me, what isn't?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20180	This is where the College has already decided on this, just to hear what the other MPs say.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20181	I have to react to that, I can't let it offend me, and I have a second term in Parliament, and now someone, he was the party president, I don't know who, who he was, is going to decide now what's smart with me, what isn't. Well, I guess I know what I'm thinking. Yeah, that's all I'm responding to.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20182	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20183	Mr. Chairman, if we want to have an emergency election in BiH, I think we have a chance to do so today, and that would be good, in my opinion, therefore, and I think today is the deadline when we have to decide. The time for regular elections is approaching and the closer the time for regular elections makes it more pointless to discuss the organisation of an emergency election in BiH. I think today is the last date, today's last session, and we have a chance, because we have a law on the agenda, proposed by the SDP Club. If we don't do it today, I think that in BiH, then we should stop discussing and talking about emergency elections and then simply wait for regular elections. Today, therefore, who wants to hold elections before the time, to hold them for two months in BiH and not in October of this year, has the opportunity to do so through this text we have in the SDP proposal. Look, it's not true that this is about the transfer of jurisdiction. BiH must take care of the integrity of the electoral process, and the integrity of the election process says the four-year elections are held at all levels, when the general elections are at stake, and especially local elections. The proposal that we received and had the opportunity to see, proposed by colleagues and colleagues from the SDS Club, 5 actually only affects the state level and it solves only the issue, so the state law only solves the issue of the state level. We want state law to solve the issue of all levels, because however the election is held for all levels resolved by state law, also regular, it is also possible that we have extraordinary elections governed by state law for all levels. So it's not a transfer of jurisdiction. If we start to plot this now we're going to hit the integrity of the electoral process. So now we have to wait for when the National Assembly of the RS will do so, when the heads of entities will disband themselves, is that right, when the Federation Parliament will do so and then we only have chaos in BiH. So we can organise elections for this Parliamentary Assembly, we can't go to the House of Peoples, because the House of Peoples draws its roots from the entity homes of the people, again from one entity, this one draws roots from these cantonals. So this is a process that must have preserved integrity. And that's why I'm asking you, so we don't mind having this extraordinary election. You called them prematurely with a four-year term. And that may be the way out of this situation, but integrity must be taken care of. Therefore, the SDP proposal did not go towards providing competence to BiH institutions, but rather kept an eye on it, so I am well aware of this proposal, on the integrity of the BiH electoral process. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20184	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20185	I thank the chairman. I thought that only the SDP when it proposed this Law had actually offered something that they knew in advance that it was not in line with the constitutional and legal system of BiH and that they had actually offered "plivadon" to these citizens protesting in Sarajevo, to calm them down, knowing in advance that this proposal would be rejected by MPs from RS. I see now that the "plivadon" has also offered SDA voters. Namely, if this were to be accepted, it would mean that we had to change the entity constitutions. According to the Constitution of the RS, the National Assembly of the Republic disbands the President of the Republic, with the attached opinion of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly cannot disband the National Assembly of the RS, and it was clear to the pronoun that we cannot accept such a thing. On the other hand, these changes and additions offered by the SDP are incomplete and contradictory. In fact, the existing Electoral Law says regular elections are being held in October of the month. And it's the only law in this world that fixed the first Sunday of October. If, according to the SDP proposal, which says the mandate of the elected authorities lasts four years, we choose, now we call the elections you know how long the mandate would take? Four and a half years, since you haven't changed the provision, you erased that October from the Election Law. So, the proposal is complete, and if we're going to make it a formality member of Rule 99 says – the bill can be submitted by any MP, committee of the House, joint commission, etc. On the formal side, the SDP proposal was submitted by the SDP MPs' Club, but was not signed by the club. I don't know how this law was included on the agenda, because I know exactly where the SDS MPs' club proposed laws to us and asked all of us MPs to sign them. You will remember 6 when it came to the Law on the termination of the work of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which was sent by SDS and SNSD's clubs, but we all had to sign them. So I don't see here the signatures of the other SDP MPs. And on the formal side, the proposer is under this unauthorized and the law could not be in the process. And we still don't mind this law being on the agenda, but give this other one a chance to finish this story today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20186	My fellow Members and fellow Members, we are here today on the agenda and I would ask you to discuss this. When it comes to the agenda of the Law that treats this matter, please talk about it whatever you think you need to say. You have also had opportunities to comment on the proposed agenda on this issue concerning the SDP Law and we were able to discuss it at the Enlarged College and put it to the vote. So that it could then be requested and considered for an emergency procedure, for then this Law would be expelled from the agenda. Since it wasn't done, I don't see any reason why they'd be making a problem out of it now. I would ask the following two who have answered for the discussion to give up the discussion so that we can determine the agenda proposed and continue to move forward with the session. Here, colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20187	I didn't answer for a discussion at all, I answered for a business intervention...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20188	Here, I thought it was that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20189	Just in the sense that I'm asking you to do what you just said. But let me also ask my colleagues, it's not fair and correct, we all know the Rules of Procedure, and we all have opinions about these issues that the predecessors spoke of. And don't abuse it, it really doesn't make sense. I ask my fellow MPs, so those who know the Rules of Procedure well. Mr. Bosić has proposed a agenda point, the College has explained the business situation, please welcome the president to lead the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20190	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I'm closing the debate. No proposed changes and additions to the agenda. I find that we have adopted the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 63rd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 7 3. Review of the BiH Council of Ministers' Reconstruction Initiative – Change of BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radončić – Proposers: MPs from the SDA Club, issue: 01-50-1-233/14, since 13/02; 4. A request from the SDPBiH Club for an examination of the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-6/14, of 11.02.12014; 5. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-59/13, of 10.12.2013, (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist activities – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-52/13, of 20.11.2013 with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH; 7. Proposal for a law on the availability of fixed military property – Proposer: Ambassador Mirsad Đugum, Law No: 01-02-1-61/13, from 27.12.2013 (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3/14, from 30.01.2014 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-14, from 04.02.2014 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on an Electronic Document – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-5/14, from 05.02.2014 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a bill establishing the level of salary employed by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković, Law No: 01-02-1-7/14, from 28.02.2014 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a resolution on the verification of the origin of the property – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, number 01-02-2-1354/13, from 31.12.2013; 13. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-4-172/14, from 29.01.2014 (first reading); 14. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-20/13, of 22.04.2013; 15. Report on the impact review carried out: “Results of Public Administration Reform”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-11336/13, since 30.12.2013 16. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2013, issue: 05/2-50-13-28-57-3/14, of 24.01.2014; 17. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2013, issue: 01.02-37-230/14, since 12.02.2014; 8 18. Report on the Commission's work on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2013, issue 01,02-50-19-232/14 since 13/02; 19. Information on the annual training plan and training of members and units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2014, the BiH Ministry of Defence material, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 01.02-03-128/13, since 11.02.2014; 20. Information on the preparation of the conditions for the use of the new instrument of pre-accession assistance to the European Union for the period 2014-2020, material from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue 01.02-06-1265/13, of 06.12.2013; 21. The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, the Commission's ranking for the election and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, number: 01-34-1-205/14, since 05.02.2014; 22. A review of Parliamentarian Saša Bursać's initiative from the 62nd session of the House of Representatives held on 23.01.2014, which reads: "I propose that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH put the next session of the agenda to be held – a decision on the obligation of the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of BiH to make a report every six months on the situation at all border crossings, with a view to each. What is the status of each border crossing that was active before Croatia's entry into the EU, what is the plan with each border crossing, how is the crossing of goods and citizens at each border crossing, which remained problems with border crossings?" number: 01-50-1118/14, since 23.01.2014; 23. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on international road transport of passengers and goods, No 01,02-05-2-187/14, of 31.01.2014; 24. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Loan Agreement for the Project Water Supply System for the Municipality of Livno – the Lithuanian Horizon – the northern arm of phase II between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and Raiffeisen Bank International AG, No: 01,02-05-2-188/14, of 31.01.2014; 25. Giving consent to the retrieval of the EC IPA Grant Agreement (Ljubška canalization system project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as administrator of the European Commission's Trast Pre-accession Instrument Fund of the European Union, issue: 01,02-05-2-223/14, since 11.02.2014; 26. Giving consent to the retrieval of the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement concluded on 25.10.2011 for the financing of the construction of the sewage system and water supply system in the municipality of Celic between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loaner) and United Credit Bank Austria AG Vienna, Austria (bank), number: 01.02-05-2-269/14, since 21.02.2014. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, a businessman. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20191	I would ask you to repeat the 8th point of the agenda, since you probably accidentally made a mistake, you said – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence, and this is the Law on Defence.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20192	8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on BiH's Defence – a proposaler of the Council of Ministers, but I think I also read the number of laws so that there can be no mistake when reading the exact number of the error cannot be. Anyway, I appreciate it. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 63rd session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? If I don't close the argument. Moving on, Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20195	... of the three asked parliamentary questions dealing with the same matter, I received a two-way answer. [[no microphone turned on]] I sincerely thank the Council of Ministers, I also thank the government of the RS and, of course, thank the government of the Federation of BiH, which has remained consistent with itself in its arrogance and supremacy and a bit of impunity. I asked a very difficult question, emotionally difficult, however you will, about the lack and abuse of the use of cytostatics in BiH. My special consideration was that a huge number of our children and youngsters were suffering from the most severe malignancies. Any termination of such therapy is a death sentence, many forget it. And I'm very sorry that it was the Federation of BiH, which brought me up to this point, because in several of our cantonal hospitals there was a really big alarm because of a simple interruption in getting cytostatics, and of course you see how they behave. Apropo of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I sincerely thank them for only one finding that BiH is not the state this people deserve, absolutely. And their response shows that, when it comes to the health care of the BiH Council of Ministers, there is absolutely no jurisdiction, absolutely nothing. I just thank them for confirming what everyone needs to know. So the entities are responsible. Apropo again answers from the government of the Republika Srpska entity sincerely thank them from the heart for, although hidden, you know, having little fear. But I am deeply convinced that among the people who prepared this answer there is at least someone who has in his family, among his friends, neighbors, workmates, acquaintances, someone who is suffering from such a severe illness and has tried to answer my question honestly. The RS government in its response clearly suggests that it is a terrible pressure so-called. The pharmaceutical lobby, I would openly call it more mafia than lobby, and there is doing many very ugly things – blackmail, pressure, bickering and naturally imposing certain pharmaceutical companies to make certain contracts worth millions and millions of marks in this country. Thank you for your honesty. And yet I repeat, I am not satisfied with the Federation's view of BiH, it is a shame that those who have had these problems directly on the ground have not accepted any answers, even negative ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20196	There is also a comment on the response submitted by Deputy Chairman Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20197	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I must say that I was extremely pleased with the response and reaction of the Council of Ministers to the initiative that I put forward at one of the previous sessions, and the initiative concerned the development of a comprehensive analysis of the situation in the BiH labour market and the preparation of guidelines as a starting point for drawing up a strategy on the coherence of the production of professional staff of all levels, in line with the projection of BiH's needs in the next five-year period. So, at one of its meetings, in collaboration with relevant employment institutions at all levels of BiH, so the state, entity and Brcko District, the Council prepared one material very comprehensive, very analytical, on page 19 that bears the title – Analysis of the state of the labour market in BiH and guidelines as the starting point for drawing up a strategy for the consistency of production of expert personnel of all levels, in line with the projection of BiH's needs in the next five-year period. Since you all probably have this material, I would not have it here... before you, but I will only repeat a few main emphasiss from this analysis or shifts that the Council of Ministers has identified, which is that there is generally a structural imbalance in the labour market, inconsistency of offers and demand for labour in terms of interest, education and qualifications, which, according to the Council of Ministers, significantly reduces the value of human capital, which is a major burden for the economic development of BiH, which is extremely important. Furthermore, it is also very important that it corresponds with certain initiatives here in this House, reduced knowledge requirements, low education criteria lead to excessive education and, instead of the benefits of society and the economy, only harm. In fact, education spending increases and reduces social wealth instead. Furthermore, which is very indicative, which is, as I say, collateral data in this analysis, which is also important to mention here also for other institutions as a message to deal with it, is that according to the BiH Institute, there are 683,645 employees. However, according to survey data, there are much more than 820,600 employees in BiH, and this difference of 137,000 between data from institutions and survey data could be, under quotes, black workers. And finally, here is this analysis, and these guidelines are to me incentivise that at one of the next sessions of this House I propose this as a point of the agenda that we discuss this seriously and that, based on this breakdown, then the Council of Ministers in cooperation with all the competent authorities of the entities, cantons, Brcko District, etc., etc., approaches make, based on these guidelines, strategies, and afterwards on an action plan that will approach the removal of these imbalances in the production of personnel and the need for the BiH labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20198	I thank Mr. Ljubić. The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20199	Thank you, Mr. President. 12 I received an answer from the Council of Ministers to a question I first asked more than a year ago, and I reiterated it at the 62nd session and thank the chairman first of all because he then promised at that session that he would insist that he respond as soon as possible. I am pleased that I have received the answer, I am not satisfied with what the answer itself contains, because the answer is clear that the problem of the water economy and the mutual cooperation between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the emphasis on the problems of the Bus Lake and local waters that are collected in the area of the municipalities of Livno and Tomislavgrad and used for electricity production in the Republic of Croatia is completely neglected and completely inadequately treated when it comes to institutions that should care for this care. It is clear from the answer that the Committee for the Water Economy established by the 1996 agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia that this Committee was appointed our share in 2005 and it is completely unclear on what deadline. It is also clear from the answer that only the Committee has never submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly any report on the situation in the area it deals with. But, well, on the basis of all this, I'm going to submit one representative initiative in the second part of this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20200	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I received an answer to a parliamentary question that I am not satisfied with at all because the question was – when the payment system in agriculture and rural development of BiH will be established. The truth in the answer has been told that it has been established and that it does not work. Unfortunately, therefore, one of the most important institutions to withdraw funds from, therefore, one of the most important institutions to withdraw funds for agriculture and rural development at the level of the BiH state is not functioning. And that's why in the next period I'm going to insist on this establishment, and I'm going to ask after this again a representative question why it doesn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20202	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20203	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I received three answers, but as usual these are partial and general answers and are absolutely not related to the relations between agencies and ministries that need to lead and give a concrete and decadent answer to the questions asked and therefore I will use that comment complete to the submitted questions to be given at the next session. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20204	Thank you. 13 Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20205	I thank the chairman. I have to say, over three and a half years here, I've never gotten an answer from this one I got from the Central Bank. My question to the Central Bank was who were members of the Investment Committee and what their monthly fees were. And in my explanation, I stated that the Central Bank lost 71 million marks on gold transactions in 2013. And instead of a concrete response from the Central Bank, I received an answer – it is not true that they have lost 71 million marks on gold transactions, and they have not proven it anywhere, and it is very easy to calculate it from their reports, and who are the members of the Investment Committee who have damaged us all by 71 million says – if you consider the necessary presonal identification of members we invite you to do so through a visit to our institution where you would, through direct contact, be personally familiar with each of the members, their biographies, professional relationship, etc. So if they're such geniuses and here they're bragging about some of the results of why they're hiding their identity, let's see them so we can applaud them because they work so well. And I don't know why, if they're really doing so well, they're hiding their fees in that case and they deserve them. So I didn't get an answer to the MP's question at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20206	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20207	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The question of the real sector is very often raised at all levels of government, often showing the need to discuss this issue, and I must say that this topic did not take a place in parliaments as objectively as it does. In this regard, the capital situation that the real sector has, therefore, the state of trade capital, and with this in relation to me informally and now requires that I be officially provided with information relating to the state of trade capital with scrutiny for the last five years, because the fact that four times less trade capital in the real sector is objectively making business in the real sector more difficult, puts it in a position to be inequitable, that it must seek new debts, that it takes interest under unfavourable conditions. So in order to be able to look at it in the RS and the Federation and certainly in the cantons, I ask the competent institutions of entities to provide me with an overview of the state of trade capital so that we can have at least a basic review and really look at what is going on in the real sector that is in serious trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20208	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. 14 I have received an answer to one representative question but through a comment of this answer I will comment on something which is otherwise a problem with these of our parliamentary questions. We often seek and receive certain information, but not because we are not informed, but to warn the public, to warn the relevant responsible institutions that some things are wrong, that they are not good, that they are not normal, but that they are illegal, etc. I get the impression that those we're giving answers think they did everything when they deliver information and dot, nothing happens after that. I asked for information – what are the rent prices paid by BiH institutions for the areas they use throughout BiH. And I got the information, which I knew from before, that these prices range from 5.5 km per square metre to 154 marks. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 154 marks. Look, uh, and I knew that up to nearly 50 marks per square, so I knew that, but watch out for the tenfold difference, here's the one case that has 150 marks, uh, we're going to ignore these 154 marks, but there are a lot of cases, so a lot of cases where these rental prices are over 30 marks, where the rental prices are over 40 marks. What are the standards that apply to the lease of space on behalf of the state? We've been racing lately to get the state some kind of savings through such and such initiatives, and on the other hand, millions of marks go uncontrollably and full of someone's pockets, under very, very, very interesting circumstances. And here, in order for this initiative and this parliamentary issue not to go away without me, I refer to the Council of Ministers' initiative – To quickly define the most possible price BiH institutions can pay for the lease of a square metre of space for BiH institutions. So let them figure out how much it is, here's the basis of these prices that are so far valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20211	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I received an answer to the question – how much inter-corporate loans participate in the structure of foreign direct investment. I assumed there was a large share of inter-corporate loans, so investors in BiH, how much they give to their branches, i.e. companies operating in BiH. The data that this is 23% of the total investment amounting to 10.96 billion at the end of 2012, means that this is 2.5 billion KM contained in inter-corporate loans. The bottom line is that these are loans that there is a return obligation but they are treated as foreign direct investments, and they give us an apparent picture that these are investments on a permanent basis, which are actually investments that are subject to return. This is an IMF methodology. So the response given by the Central Bank is certainly reliable, but it points to the great importance of these loans, i.e. participation and a rather problematic situation from the balance of payments point of view. We are often convinced that the sides of 15 direct investments are the most qualitative component of the balance of payments in the capital account, but here we see that there are, therefore, elements of the passive, obligations treated as foreign direct investments. My recommendation, with gratitude for the content analysis, is to consider this information on the Council of Ministers and to suggest measures to complement foreign direct investment policy in terms of regulation of the volume of inter-corporate loans in order to make them at least a more stable component in this part, so in this complex of foreign direct investments. In fact, let me just say that the largest share of inter-corporate loans has Russia, then Austria, and that this is probably linked to the volume of real quality investment of foreign direct investment in BiH. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20213	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers and other guests, I welcome you all. My parliamentary question was – what did the Foreign Ministry do to help BiH workers who were imprisoned in the town of Sochi, Russia? I am pleased with the answer that they sent and it is evident that certain activities have been undertaken and that this is in one correct way and done. However, I got up more to say as an appeal to our citizens who are in a rather difficult situation looking for work, so they are forced to have certain moments through various mechanics easily believe and go to work abroad and in the good part of the cases happen to return without any rights, to be captured there, not to be paid for what they have agreed here, so it is my suggestion that they are seducing employment along with the agency at the state level, which is the only one who is authorized to make arrangements and give permission to go, that they are not going where interstate contracts with the institution are not signed, or with the Employment Agency and where there is no such agreement. If you do not have this consent, you will be exposed to very difficult and unpleasant situations and where what you offer in 90% of the cases will not be respected. For these reasons, I have also stood up to say a few words by appealing that more activities must lead and seduce employment and the Agency at explaining to citizens who are looking for a job not to fall for such provocations, because there is no month for one of the incidents to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20215	Thank you. There are no more registered commentarians. Moving to b) New Agents' Issues Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20217	I thank the chairman. I would take the opportunity, given that the honourable Minister Hadžić is here, if he can answer the question right now, it's not difficult. Namely, I was approached by a group of parents from Banja Luka, it is about parents who have children with disabilities, and two years ago the Ministry sent a petition and a request to amend the Regulation on how to mark a vehicle operated by persons with damaged limbs. Namely, the parents of these children who have suffered from dystrophy, multiples, cerebral etc., cannot in front of hospitals, social institutions, park their vehicles in places marked for disabled people, very often somewhere far away they must leave cars and carry their children and are faced with it every day. Two years ago, the Ministry said the regulations were being amended. And they asked me to ask you, will this category be included in the Regulation and when, if they will, when will this Regulation be made? And I would ask, if you know the answer, if we can't wait and write. And another question, not this time, Minister Hadžić, but the government of the Federation, and I asked that question on 20 November 2013, but the answer never came. And the question is: Why did not any pre-war worker of Serbian nationality of 700 in "Aluminium" Mostar get shares of this company and on what basis did 12% of this company belong to the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20218	Thank you. Honorable representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20219	Dear chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers, respected guests and media representatives. I have two initiatives and several questions that I will deliver naturally in writing as the Rules of Procedure states, and I will explain only one initiative and verbally. Namely, on the basis of Article 8. I am submitting to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the Proposal for a Law on the Supreme Court of BiH to the parliamentary procedure no later than three months after the date of adoption of this initiative. On the need to form the Supreme Court of BiH, I explained extensively, and also wrote to the High Representative, and to the delegation of the European Commission, and to the ambassadors of the countries of the Witnesses of the Dayton Peace Agreement two years ago. I think it would be good for the country's highest legislative body, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to also play an active role and we to run some things that are inevitable and inevitable when it comes to BiH. Why should we be two or four or five years late with things that are inevitably waiting for us on our Euro-Atlantic journey? In the context of this initiative, I have very clearly cited several groups of arguments as to why it is necessary to form the Supreme Court of BiH as soon as possible. These are parallel legal arguments, statehood argument, constitutional law argument, constitutional court argument, court practice argument, EU integration argument, international requirements. I particularly explained the fact that BiH still belongs to a legal round of European countries in which it is integrated and that 17 BiH's judiciary is necessary to coordinate with the EU's judiciary on our way to realising our strategic foreign-political goal or one of our strategic foreign-political objectives – EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20220	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20221	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I've got one question on the agenda that I'm giving to the Minister of Security and the Director of SIPA. Given that information has been disclosed in the public that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation against the assistant director of SIPA Anđelko Hrgić, and on the grounds of suspicion of certain crimes in the area of Livna, I ask the question – why did the director of SIPA not temporarily suspend Hrgić, whether the same disciplinary procedure was initiated because of the conduct that damages the reputation of the service, as did the director of the Border Police Vinko Dumančić against a third-rate authorised official who is also charged with the same crimes, and what is the practice in all police agencies, and I ask whether this is not valid for the same rules for highly-ranked police officers or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20222	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20223	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am laughing because I can see that we are very close to the election on parliamentary matters as well. Hyde, this is, perhaps, the best thing to do is to create an initiative to lift parliamentary issues by the end of the term of office. I have one question and one parliamentary initiative. The question is about the immovable military property which, here and today, is on our agenda and this is a concrete question – How many locations are ready for booking at this time, what are these locations, to specify all locations individually, to group by entity membership? How many locations at this time are waiting for the book to be carried out formal-legal actions, so compliance with the cadastrian and land-book records, are listed in the same way? How many locations for which no land-book documentation has been obtained due to non-compliance with the legal obligations of the competent departments for the catastran of municipalities in which these locations are located? And how many locations for which it is not possible at all to obtain cadastrian and land-book documentation because of an undefined land coverage by the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH? That's the question. And one initiative that concerns all of us. It is evident that in the longer, already recently, bottled water of highly dubious quality has been used in the Parliamentary Assembly. According to... the delivery man was elected to the tender. I ask that samples of all types of drinking water supplied according to the latest tender be delivered to the competent health care office, whether 18 of the one or the other entity, do an analysis of the quality of the drinking water that is in use. I ask the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat to raise the issue as soon as possible and to inform this House of the results of the analysis.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20224	Thank you. Of course, we cannot lift parliamentary issues without amending the Rules of Procedure, but any MP and representative may refrain from asking parliamentary questions. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20225	Thank you. Since I was not satisfied with the answer to my question about the work of the payment system in agriculture and rural development for BiH, I am again asking the Council of Ministers a representative question, and it concerns the part relating to the withdrawal of funds from the European funds for BiH when it comes to agriculture and rural development. And I think that's the most urgent thing that the Council of Ministers needs to be able to do, and that's very important, and that's why I refer this issue to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20226	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20227	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. For today's session, I have prepared one parliamentary question and one parliamentary initiative. But before that, I would say that so far over the past 2.5 or 3 years, I have proposed the most common issues in the area of economy, in the area of economy. Unfortunately, a lot of talk has been made about some of the higher topics that we've seen so far have nothing and we have a condition as it is. Unfortunately, the economy of these last months, two of them seem to be getting more and more expressive. However, our ministers seem to have an extremely good hearing, but their hearing is not very good. The parliamentary question that I have prepared at this time for the entity and cantonal ministries of spatial planning and environmental protection – What have the relevant services and inspections from your area and competences taken in the part of air protection emissions and emissions after the detection of deficiencies and irregularities, both through regulations and on the ground in the period 2010-2013? And the parliamentary initiative that I made on the basis of the mass of memos to BiH firms, therefore from all parts, which refers to the amendment of the Guidelines on the application of the Law on Public Procurement of BiH in a way that, in Article 20, the Instructions not of the Law, in Article 20 point 1 b) reads – when calculating the prices of offers for the purpose of reducing the price of domestic bids for preferential factor, 20% for contracts awarded in 2014-2018, 15% for contracts awarded from 2019-2022 and 10% for contracts awarded from 2023 to 19 2025. Also in Article 20, there is a description of the text, not to read, to shorten time, the explanation is given with all the contributions, and I hope that the Council of Ministers will hear about this, because this is exactly encouraging the upcoming activities in the field of energy and the amounts provided for in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20228	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20229	Thank you, Mr. President. In the previous period, I asked questions related to non-payment of taxes and contributions from highly profitable public companies. I don't believe anything was done and that's about it, here's who does what they want, but now I'm asking, because they don't pay taxes, I'm asking the Council of Ministers, the governments of entities and state and entity power regulators -- who allowed and based what regulations, who gave authority, to electro-prices in BiH to bill and charge so-called. The industrial electricity that they charge for independent crafts, trades, public institutions, means that they are not large consumers? And I see it as a kind of parafiscal imposition of this petty enterprise, which, by the way, the state imposes a significant number of taxes and contributions, or it does not release, so why, even if it does not prevent public undertakings that do not have the authority to impose their own parafiscal burdens on these companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20230	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20231	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow ministers and fellow Members and MPs. My question is to the Medicines Agency. These days, the public has been informed that there are problems, so BiH is one of the countries where medicines are most expensive compared to all European countries. In accordance with the Act of the Medicines, the Agency adopted in 2011 a Regulation establishing prices for medicinal products and, accordingly, provided for a sublegal act to provide for a guide to determine the maximum price of wholesale medicinal products to be used by the Agency. The parameters for this were to combine drug prices, maximum price for medicines in Serbia, Croatia, Austria and Slovenia. Unfortunately, this Regulation was published in 2011 and the deadline for determining this Guideline was 25.12.2011. Under various pressures from the lobby, the pharmaceutical lobbies in BiH, whose function also include ministers who should think about the health of BiH citizens, BiH still does not apply this Guideline, so we have a situation where prices of medicines in BiH are three times more expensive compared to Serbia, that participation for the medicine in Zvornik, for a particular medicine in Zvornik, is twice as expensive as the full price of Bosnalek in Mali Zvornik, that the price of medicines in Brod compared to Slavonski Brod is twice as expensive as in Croatia, and that even associations of foreign drug manufacturers are placed in that 20 function by making it impossible to place, i.e. using a guide on the maximum price of drugs at wholesale in BiH. I have a letter in which even the association says this so that, by applying this Guideline, because of some of the non-consistencies of the legal views of the previously published Regulation, it would lead to an unequal position in relation to prices in European countries. They should be brought into an equal position, are now favoured, three times more privileged position by keeping BiH citizens in the maximum state of poverty, the maximum state of misery and disease, and will affect nothing. In this regard, I demand that the Agency for Medicinal Products, Director of the Medicines Agency, be directed by and pharmacists in accordance with this Guideline and the Regulation and that legal measures be applied to wholesale sales in BiH. Those who do not respect this Guideline should check out their medicines in BiH, there are those who would register medicines in BiH and sell them at normal prices. At the same time, I ask the Minister of Civil Affairs to unblock the Commission's work on medicines at the BiH Medicines Agency. In general, I apologize to the chairman, and it is time for the Federation Health Minister to disable the work of the Medicines Commission, so this Commission was established in terms of the registration of medicines, that they cannot be registered to favour some of the BiH producers. Is that concern for the citizens of BiH, about the health of BiH citizens, about the development of health care or anything? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20232	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20233	Thank you, Mr. President. For reasons that I have stated in my comments on the answers received and which I do not need to repeat, I am starting with the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives, I submit to the Council of Ministers an initiative to prepare and deliver information to the Parliamentary Assembly on the situation in the water economy area of common interest for BiH and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20234	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20235	Mr. Chairman. A new EU approach to BiH has been mentioned more frequently lately. In this regard, I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers consider and set out a list of priorities for the implementation of the programme and a potential new EU approach to BiH with an emphasis on strengthening the economic stability of the country, the institutions of the rule of law and the fight against corruption, and deliver it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the latest within 30 days. 21 So if we had realized one of the previous initiatives that I had submitted, which this House adopted, then we would be much more prepared now. That is why I am using, and here is this opportunity to ask again for information – Why has the conclusion and decision of this House not been realized so far, to discuss BiH's current position on the European path from the aspect of our meeting the conditions for starting EU membership negotiations? So, this dom has adopted this initiative, the Joint College has also adopted this initiative, we have prepared materials from the Commission for European Integration, and my question is again to the leadership of the House that has the obligation to include this point and implement this conclusion – why has it not done so so far and why do you actually refuse to realize the decisions this House adopts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20236	Thank you. I've just told the secretary to record it and we'll see if there's a chance for the next session right away. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20237	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the esteemed presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, all present. Here, I have a parliamentary question. These days I've been contacted by some of our businessmen, let's say small businesses who are trying to make this society work and provide themselves with existence, and face a real problem, so in this context, I'm going to ask the Department of indirect taxation, the Council of Ministers, more specifically the Ministry of Finance. So, – Why do VAT numbers have to wait for an average of up to 15 days and can the release process be accelerated? My explanation for this question: Indeed, if someone opens anything in BiH that should be welcome to us, and I think it's too big, so the number of days, 15 days, to get to the VAT number. And I think that's where we all lose directly in BiH, so in general, BiH loses at every stretch. I think it's perfectly natural, let's say it's justified that it's up to 5 days to wait for any document, and since the indirect taxation administration has shown great professionalism, I don't know why it's taking 15 days. I've calculated roughly from the territory of the city where I come from, where around the companies I'm talking about are opening up about 150 a year. If we cut the procedure to 5 days, it practically means having 10 days shorter procedure, each company has one employee, so it's about 1,500 diaries on the very territory of the city of Prijedor, which has about 100,000 inhabitants, actually just over 97,000. Recalculate this means that according to this latest census on the total number of BiH residents and you will see that we are practically losing about 45,000 diaries per employee, so, after only one employee in a possibly newly opened company. When we recalculate this number of BiH residents, when we lose 2,025,000 in 10 days, we lose around one employee per employee. So please, so the Directorate of Direct Taxation and the Council of Ministers, more specifically the Ministry of Finance, that, if at all possible, shorten that procedure, because definitely this, in my opinion, means I've calculated it roughly, it's a figure far greater. And if BiH, therefore, loses several million marks annually just because on one paper, practically one number waits 15 days 22 instead of 5, I think one or two workers should be hired there, here I would immediately support that initiative. I think that should be recognized by the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20238	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20239	Here's a second, I think we should recognize the Council of Ministers, because it's definitely one question of life, a little bit of life on which we're very much losing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20240	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum, question new. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20241	I thank the chairman. I would repeat my question to the Medicines Agency, and I support my colleague, Prodanović, where the exact same attitudes are but what the Alliance for a better future has been saying in this House for a year and a half. Medicines and medicines on an annual level can be used to burn about 100 million marks. At present, 470 million marks are allocated to the account only recipes without what is taken in free sale. Prices are, when I showed the bill half a year ago here, three times more expensive in BiH than in Serbia. If we know that the price of the medicine is formed on the basis of the national list of medicines of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, to multiply it by a certain factor, we must have significantly cheaper medicines. Whether there is a misunderstanding, whether there is a desire to make a misunderstanding, whether it will simply remain a formation at the entity level of a single essential and national list of medicines, which will be the basis for the formation of entity lists of medicines and drug lists in Brcko District, is a matter of the interest of individuals that they can self-initiately form drug prices and negotiate with pharmaceutical industries. So far, on all requests to analyse the list of medicinal products in entities, Brcko District, and in comparison with the law provided for by the price of the medicinal product, we have never received an answer from the Drug Control Agency. We received a response from the minister of civil affairs that he directed everything towards the Council of Ministers a year ago, to form an agency, to appoint a director, to submit all documents to the Council of Ministers, and we still have no more than a year and a few days to appoint a director and deputy director of the Medicines Agency. We don't have a list of drugs that won't be adopted by individuals in the health departments, and that's why we have expensive drugs. And again, I speak 570 million, this Assembly approved loans for health institutions and the development of health institutions in BiH without a single fact plan, especially from the Federation, a plan on the need to build such facilities at the Federation level. And so I ask, I demand and demand that by the next session, when I need to combine the answers to the questions that have been raised so far, the Medicines Agency to precisely compare the prices of current essential lists that are on entities with prices that would really be on the legal level and according to the Drug Law. So much and thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20242	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20243	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I have three parliamentary questions. I will read first of them, and that is – at what stage is the issue of the recognition of BiH citizens' driving licenses in the Federal Republic of Germany, and when can our citizens expect this issue to be resolved since, therefore, they face daily the inability to replace driving licences, despite the fact that there is some information from the Ministry that these issues are resolved? People, therefore, there in their home municipalities in Germany come into a situation to be told that they must take a driving test, therefore both the oral and practical part, even first aid, even though in this case it is a specific matter for a long - term health care professional. So, please give me an answer to this question, and the other two I deliver in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20244	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20245	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. Here, and my question, as a doctor, is to refer to the BiH Medicines Agency and to support my fellow doctors, our Lazar Prodanović and Mirsad Đugum, regarding the appointment of the Director of the Medicines Agency. My question is: Is there a possibility of introducing large packs of medicines for patients with chronic diseases, who are receiving therapy via an essential list of medicines. I will explain the following: Medicinal products prescribed for chronic patients and which are in continuous, active permanent therapy are mainly packs of 20 to 30 tablets, which is not normal enough for treatment for 15 days. That is why patients are often wrongly ordered to control themselves, and in fact their human rights, the rights to health, are at stake. In order to facilitate access to therapy and to reduce the use of prescriptions from the essential list of medicinal products, the possibility of introducing a larger pack of medicinal products for the treatment of these patients should be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20246	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20247	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 24 I have one question that has been troubled here so far in this House, not as concrete as it is, and of which we are somewhat moved away because of our daily life here in BiH, and we must not go away and forget them. The issue, therefore, concerns the use of BiH's hydroelectric potentials, which are located in the border belt in either whole or part of BiH's territory, and are used by neighbouring countries. The question is: Does the BiH Council of Ministers take any action to regulate relations with neighbouring countries in the best interests of BiH? Here I primarily think of the hydrocentral and hydropower plant Bašta Basta, then Zvornik, then the hydropower plants from the Trebišnice basin and the water that goes towards the Plat hydropower plant in Dubrovnik, I mean the hydropotential Busko Blato, which is used as a whole for the Orlovac hydropower plant in Croatia. So -- has BiH taken any action to settle this issue in the best interests of BiH? Maybe some of those potentials I didn't mention, this applies to all of this, therefore, to the potential of this kind. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20248	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Review of the BiH Council of Ministers' Reconstruction Initiative – Change of BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radončić – Proposers: MPs from the SDA Club Members of the SDA Club delivered the initiative's parliamentary procedure for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers in 13/022014. On the same day, the initiative is, in accordance with Article 143(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 143(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, delivered to the Council of Ministers, MPs at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Council of Ministers has not delivered its opinion on the initiative within the deadlines provided for by the House's Rules of Procedure, Article 144. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. So, as you said in the introduction, the SDA MPs' club submitted this Security Minister's replacement initiative, Mr. Radončić, in 1302. On the reasons of this initiative you have been given, so I will not repeat it, I would just like to point out that in the course of the session we will propose a Decision to this House that we had the same, so by asking Minister Šarović's shift. So, the SDA Club will propose during the session of the Security Minister's replacement Decision, Mr Radončić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20251	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20252	I thank the chairman. Having heard again the argument that the request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the change of the BiH Security Minister, had based its argument on the Decision establishing the Council of Ministers for Co-operation on Police Affairs, it was clear that this part of the Council of Ministers' Decision of 2005 had ceased to apply in 2008. The establishment of the Co-ordination Agency ended this temporary decision and the role of the Council of Ministers. That's one explanation. In the second part of the argument, it is stated that it has not taken action under its jurisdiction to protect the personal and property security of citizens and state property. The very knowledge that the security minister has made direct contact with the director of the Agency for the Coordination of Police Authorities and with the head of the SIPA is the one that is in charge of the BiH Ministry of Security. The role of protection is at entity level. Requests to form a BiH-level crisis headquarters are absolutely requirements that would lead to the minister of security and the ministry working counter-constitutionally. It is clear from one single fact that in 06.02.2014 the Federal Ministry formed the Crisis Staff and that this is public order and peace in the jurisdiction of entities, not in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Security at the state level. For the absurd to be even bigger, by forming the Crisis Staff at Federation level on 06.02, the day after the unsavourable events that occurred by burning, which no one approves, but the protests are surely approved, peaceful protests, the day before that was formed the Crisis Staff, which absolutely the Minister of Security was not informed of, but is why the officer who informed the Minister of Security, later, that a crisis headquarters was formed at the Federation level, against him was initiated a disciplinary procedure. What is the hierarchical process that the Minister of Security cannot or has not received information that a crisis headquarters has been formed at Federation level? Absurd, pure absurdity, these are incomprehensible things and cannot believe that such things can happen. The explanation is probably clear to everyone here. Efforts or pressures, to put it this way, indirect that the security minister forms a state-level crisis staff and for a part of an entity, because the riots were in the Federation of BiH, is the introduction of anti-constitutional action. Whether it was a request to make a possible mistake and not to let Bog happen any incident that would lead to the loss of human life, what kind of accusations would then be made to the Minister of Security if the Crisis Staff had been formed unconstitutionally and all processes that would have gone directly to the Minister of Security. And if this was a trap, a wish or a will to do something like that, it's likely to come out over a certain period of time. The greatest protection of citizens and property was that it was said not to use force against the hungry people, towards the people who have been put down, towards people who live in such misery and poverty. The crisis staff should have taken over and also set up bars in front of both the presidency and the cantonal parliaments, not just in front of the Federation of BiH government. What if it wasn't for God's Bog that happened to any incident, that one human life was lost? Did some of them expect Ukraine to happen here? Our work must be in the interest of citizens, of all BiH citizens, and we must be aware that hunger is a permanent resident of most BiH citizens. Our debates in this direction, and they've already been held for almost three years, must not lead to development, economy and other things... and not even to these pranks and even the processes of forcing someone to work counter-constitutionally forming something that is absolutely out of jurisdiction and then it's an argument that they're looking for a shift. For this reason, the Club of the SBB absolutely does not accept the explanation provided by the SDA MPs' Club for the replacement of the Security Minister. And the other thing, we absolutely don't have the opinion of the chairman of the Council of Ministers who, and by Rule 144, should have, Rules of Procedure on Labour. So much and thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20253	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20254	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. To be fair, the elections are coming, the election campaign is under way, the tensions are growing, the situation is very perilous in the whole of BiH, every segment of it. Everyone knows what today is, but nobody knows what's gonna happen tomorrow. Among other things, the way someone deals with one of the best resolution ministers in this term is really for absurdity. How we will stand all of us sitting here and many of the Council of Ministers and other state institutions in front of foreigners, in front of representatives of the countries in the environment, where exactly this resolution minister has received the highest praise for successful work. He has launched so many processes that have been in the drawer for years and has been rewarded by all those who watch over peace and security in this country, to be as close to one normal state. And he did it very well. How can we now, with what kind of cheek – this and such minister, who has earned all the recognitions, now is no good, now we will drive him away. When it's being considered here why this minister has to be fired, I wonder how many people have been preparing all this, and there seems to be enough of them, how many of them were either in the military or in the police? For some I'm sure they are, for some in one or the other. I was more than half a century ago in an army, the Yugoslav People's Army, and now, when it was due, in the BiH Army. I'm a retired Army officer. The principle of all uniforms, and that's the police and the military in every country, has something called the principle of subordination. When something happens in the field, there's no waiting for orders, but it's acting on the free circumstances that you're allowed to do. In the war, when the attack starts, no one waits for a defense order. The defense automatically comes to the scene. When all those sad and ugly and very dirty things happened, which they did, we don't run away from, what was the uniform police doing, whose order was waiting? As far as that show is concerned, don't be mad, I have to be a little cynical, the village's burning and the grandmother's combing, right? Who could have given the order to defend all those buildings that are the symbol of this state? I have defended this country with my own life. The blood price paid and paid and the day for it today. Damn whoever did what he did, I absolutely don't care who did it. But that could have been prevented. Well, look at every day how many cops we have on the streets. Who dropped their chance to be a real officer in the right place among the uniformed officers of this country? Fortunately, it only happened in one part, but unfortunately it happened in one of the capitals of a country. It's an even bigger slap to all those who were supposed to stop it. Why not use the principle of subordination, there was no waiting for a higher-level order when what is happening on the ground. And that's the problem. By the famous one, let Pedro hang, you know. Now someone's looking for all the anomalies, all the excitement in this country's entire police system. Well, look, I'm a blind man but I listen to the radio and listen to television, there's no one at the top of this country, especially in the Federation of BiH, who doesn't blame or blame. And everyone's looking for everyone's shift and everyone's guilt. But to find one general culprit who will cover all this, we will replace the Minister of Security. The Minister of Security who is not a uniformed person, who does not, is not involved in the system of command responsibility, you understand he is a minister, not a general police or a commander of any department in the police. All these arguments that they have made for and against it is easy to imagine that someone should be wrong, to shake their hands happily rubbing and saying – here we have found who is responsible for 27 all. I'm ashamed of this kind of procedure. And as far as I'm concerned, believe me, I absolutely don't mind, if this Assembly, this Parliament wants our good ministers to keep making these kinds of situations, and we're looking at the little honor and cheek that's left to us in front of the world, the international community, then just gentlemen keep on going that way. Just remember, the pole always has two ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20255	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not replicating my colleague Adnan. I'm replicating Dr. Đugum. So he talked a lot about police reform and the competencies of police agencies and the Ministry of Security. The truth is next. So, police reform in 2008 solved the co-ordination of police structures at BiH level. And that is why when we talk about the Council of Ministers for Co-operation on Police Affairs, it has been said that the issue for lower levels of government, or lower police structures in BiH, will be resolved by constitutional reform. So that authority remained with the ministry. And you don't need to be a legal expert, you just have to go to the SIPA site, to the Ministry of Security and see what jurisdiction is. No one asked Mr. Minister or anyone to beat up the hungry, disreputed people who seek their rights, but also Mr. Minister and everyone else in charge, so neither did Mr. Radončić himself to blame for this situation, but today here we are talking about him. So all we have to do is go to the SIPA site or the Ministry of Security and see what jurisdiction is. The SIPA Act should be considered, where it is said that the director is responsible for the minister and the Council of Ministers. So first the Minister, then the Council of Ministers. We are aware of the co-ordinating roles of the Minister of Security, but all these crimes that have been reportedly committed, and in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, also concern Mr. Security Minister, the Directorate for the Agency, the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Structures, and, of course, this is all resulting from the legal and other provisions previously implemented. So there's no personal attack on Mr. Radončić here. This procedure was passed by by ministers before him and will probably be followed by him. So, we appreciate that there are elements here and today, as I said in the introduction, we will propose a motion for a decision that we had almost identical for Mr. Šarović at the previous sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20257	Thank you. Replica reply, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20258	Thank you. I'm sorry that Mr. Sarajlić wasn't at the Extended College last time he was the director of the SIPA, when he made it clear to all of us and gave us what are the competences of SIPA and the team of police who is in SIPA. Only prosecutors can handle these teams, not the Minister of Security. It is clear that in 2008, by passing the law, the decision ceased to apply, that the 28 security minister in this section had absolutely no authority to form a crisis headquarters. But I was just expecting Mr. Sarajlić's answer here, why, and they certainly knew, that a crisis headquarters was formed at Federation level, the day before 07.02., why is it that the Minister of Security is not familiar with it? Why a suspension was launched, i.e. a disciplinary procedure against employees who later informed the Minister of Security that a crisis headquarters was formed at the Federation level and a clear competence for public order and peace that it is at entity level. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20259	Thank you. Replica response, dear colleague Amir Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20260	I'll be very brief. I repeat, the 2008 police reform addressed the issue of co-ordination of police structures at the BiH state level for co-ordination with lower levels of government, entities, cantons, said it would be the subject of constitutional reform, further constitutional reform in BiH. So there's a commitment. As far as SIPA's jurisdiction is concerned, I don't need a director to interpret it, there is a SiPA Act in BiH, which says the director is responsible for the minister and the Council of Ministers. And as far as SIPA's jurisdiction is concerned, I'm just going to read and share something I downloaded from the Internet, now, with my colleague Đugum. The SIPA Special Support Unit's competences say – support for the protection of objects of special importance, especially when there is an express degree of major terrorist threat and attack on buildings, and in support of the Department for the Security of Personalities and Objects, in establishing a violated public order and peace in greater scope, near protected objects. Well, I hope the presidency building is one of those objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20261	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20262	Here I will briefly state the position of the HDZ Club. I think that, obviously, this is also one of the moves of some party game that has intensified after the protest and is primarily about some within Bosniak political relations and positions. The fact is that instead of seriously dealing with the causes of the protests, we all agree that the causes, that the causes lie in the difficult economic and social situation in BiH, instead of seriously dealing with the reasons that led to the protest, instead serving the demagogue story and the duration of the demagogue game. In focus is not a general interest, the focus is very clear foreigners interest in individual political options. I would just like to remind myself that for the difficult economic and social situation, some political forces are responsible for the good part, which, with the assumptions known, have formed an unconstitutional and illegal government of the Federation, are also the result of the dramatic deterioration of the economic and social situation in the Federation of BiH. Therefore, we also see this 29 initiative from the HDZ Club as something that does not go towards stabilising political opportunities in BiH and thus being in the function of this general interest, but to destabilise, its results, I do not believe that the intentions are such, but its consequences would be further destabilising political opportunities in BiH. The parliamentary majority, which is now as it is, would become questionable, without clear indications of any corrections that could further stabilise the parliamentary majority, and thus political opportunities. And without stable political opportunities in BiH, there is no serious face-to-face with the real causes that led to the protest. For these reasons, therefore, the HDZ Club will not support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20263	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20264	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs. My replica refers to Mr Sarajlić's speech. Look, we need to be absolutely clear here, this is about a pre-election game that aims to, I'd say, remove a man who has undoubtedly made significant moves in that ministry. And we can talk about what we want, we can talk about powers smaller or bigger, and here it is clear that it is about, as Mr Franjičević said, a pre-election race that should eliminate some people who may be a potential danger to the election results of the parties. And that's less clear. I'd say it doesn't take much to discuss. If it had been a case of another man or other position, surely no one would have started that initiative, no one would have thought about it, and it would have forgotten as many other things are forgotten, and those most important things that have led to and what is the essence of these problems, these protests are corruption in health, corruption in funds, corruption in the supply of medicines and all other things. I won't talk about it, but I'll say one other thing. Absolutely acceptable to me, it is absolutely your Mr. Sarajlić's legitimate right and the SDA to launch that initiative for every shift, including the Minister of Security, but you must know that the Ministry of Security is working together with the Council of Ministers. And you clearly quoted well, you're right, that there should be coordination between the Ministry of Security... SIPA, or state institutions with the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers. It is simply inconceivable to me that from this whole conglomerate called the Council of Ministers, which in no word has been published about all the activities, at least publicly, has been in the media, individuals have been advertised, has not spoken, and you have not, in any word of your own, I would say, accused the same Council of Ministers who are responsible for all these activities that have taken place in the unfavorable events. Of course, you have as much right as anyone else to launch the initiative, but I would say indiscipline is one constant constant in this House, and we will see in other laws that we will talk about today. I think that simply your argument is not high enough, is not explained by the elements that are essential, which in the best possible way detect the measurement of the problem. The problem is that Radončić was completely open in his appearances, perhaps talking too emotionally about the real problem of the people who caused these protests. What would have happened if it had been ordered to defend institutions' buildings with guns, that they had fallen 3-4 lives? I think it would be an uncontrollable mess that would lead to a scenario called Ukraine. Maybe someone wanted it, I don't know, but in any case, all the sins and all the problems, as Mr. Đugum said, would be transferred to one man... the Ministry. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20265	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismeta Dervoz, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, guests and guests. Two keywords are repeated continuously, responsibility, jurisdiction, coordination, addition and third. The responsibility was obviously on those who had legal provisions for it. The responsibility was at entity levels to prevent, to predict possible events that left us all with this kind of lead. The competencies are perfectly clear and I don't know who needs to repeat them anymore. But what is under co-ordination seems to be the biggest problem in BiH. And the Federation entity unfortunately confirms that. The coordination when it comes to the system is obviously not there. It is not there, because those who should coordinate are those who absolutely do not want to talk to each other, who communicate through media charges, who communicate by suing each other and who communicate in a way that tries to try and transfer their duties and their responsibility to the other or to the other. Co-ordination in the Federation's security system has already failed in several previous cases. We all remember what was going on for 50 minutes here in front of this building, in front of the US Embassy, when we were waiting for the same people who are now saying they were waiting for Minister Radončić to give them instructions, orders and tasks, waiting for one of the other instructions to stop the crazy terrorist who fired on the streets of the BiH capital. Since they didn't know or didn't want to know what their responsibility was, they didn't know it either now, or they didn't want to know, or they didn't want to do their job, perhaps with a pre-prepared scenario for any further developments that should make the situation more difficult in BiH even more complicated. What we're talking about here, Mr. Sarajlić said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And how, then, Mr. Sarajlić, can it be explained that the events of the 7th of this month are being treated as a coup or terrorism? As far as I can think about in my civic and very small political career and consciousness, if someone wants to commit a coup or if it's an act of terrorism, I guess you have to react. If citizens, who went out to the streets to seek their rights, for 20 years were denied what is called the basic norms for a decent life, terrorists or who wanted to commit a coup, then nothing else was called upon in my opinion but to fight those citizens and to deal with them in such a way. Let me remind you that there were 19 excessive uses of force by police forces registered in Tuzla. Is this what should have happened throughout BiH when citizens say they want to work, have decent living conditions, want their children to have a future, and don't want to see more in positions and places of those who are eyelessly suffering exclusively and in their pockets all they can take from these citizens for two decades. The citizens are right. The citizens of BiH want us here in this Paramentary Assembly, and in all the countless congregations we have in this country, making decisions in a way that they will be able to live better, safer and with some possibility that they will have any vision of a secure future. Citizens are not very interested in whether we will have an emergency election now or we will have them in October. They want to know who's going to be elected in those elections and whether we're going to steal votes again. How is it possible, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that in 2013, the citizens went out to the streets to destroy that authority they allegedly chose in 2012 so plebiscitely? If it hadn't been for a little theft in those elections, or 31 things have happened in these years, and now all of a sudden from 2012 to 2013, the citizens say they can't live in this country the way they are. What is very important is that, in all these and these initiatives, in all of these and these discussions, both in the Parliamentary Assembly and at all other levels, and in the media unfortunately, they use qualifications to disqualify and persona, and political projects, and positions, and in this way they are definitely only more strengthened by this already-wrought position and state institutions and positions where the people they believe and whom they address to solve their problems. I'll draw one more time, we're witnessing these days of conflict, accusations, the shift of those who need to coordinate. They change each other, they accuse each other, they send each other messages through the media, not co-ordinate. Does this mean that we can expect again in the first chance when it happens either actual terroristly... or that someone wants us to get Ukraine on the streets of BiH, we will again have those who do not know what it means to coordinate and who do not know what their job means? I would just like to point out, as a member of the SBB Club, I am proud that Mr Radončić, in this mandate, acting in the Ministry of Security, has shown that it can be done in this country, that it can be done well, that in this country results can be achieved in the interests of the citizens and in the interests of the functioning of this country. And I also showed that, by giving up my ministerial salary, by denying all the benefits that some of the people in that ministry had to date and using them abundantly, there are also people who know what is responsible for those who chose us and who expect us to show, if anything else, how people really live in BiH. So don't let the citizens of BiH, who are rightly protesting and justifiably seeking the possibility of a normal and dignified life in this country, put us in categories of terrorists, abuse their protests for daily or election purposes, falsify their demands in a way that we talk about coups or talk about something that Bog won't give these dissented citizens to us as parliamentarians or other elected officials. Please, let's talk about how we're going to achieve that all our ministries have the results of what the Ministry of Security, led by Mr. Radončić, has had in the past year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20267	Thank you. The first vice-president, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20268	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I think this point today is both an opportunity and a reason to talk about essentially some problems. Not entering at this point in the proposal's argument, not entering at this moment nor assessing the behaviour of individual actors in all these events by verticals from the Ministry of Security, through the prosecution, agencies one, the other, third, police agencies, entities, cantons, etc., it is much more important that we here today get to know or at least identify some of the reasons why this all happened together. It is also much more important to identify 32 tendencies of individual actors throughout the process and after the process. In fact, I'm saying that it's actually the cause of all of these events that we're facing right now and that I would call the escalation of a crisis that is actually the permanent state of this country after the war to this day, first in one incoherent system, both constitutional and so on, so to speak, of all law enforcement agencies. What would the Amerikanac say... On the other hand, the cause of this whole situation is the behaviour of the political elites from war on here, and certain causes are already booming in the war, so to speak, the tendencies outlined in the way you sow certain illusions and utopias that you can operate without work, without production, by producing certain rights in this very cruel market world and environment, where you need to show the ability to produce and sell your product. Well then, shine, so to speak, illusions that it is possible by giving businesses, not by privatizing, to make both workers and society, etc., etc. And I can't argue, because I don't have all the data, but I guess most of those companies whose employees are disfigured, impoverished, humiliated, went out for protests in Tuzla, Zenica, would be less worth it for Sarajevo and some other parts of it... Krivaja, Konjuha, Dite, Polihe, etc., etc. Constitutional workers of companies who, in some political sense, have been given protectionism to someone, and then robbed and destroyed and the workers left unscathed. And at the same time for years and mandates, so to speak, hundreds of millions of marks have been allocated to subsidise these companies that were known not to be able to help them. So now look at the Federal Government's data in the last term, in the past, this, etc., etc., so let's add up what funds, so to speak, were allocated to these companies from Krinaya and beyond. I believe we'll get to hundreds of millions of marks. And we did not help, or help those who protested neither these companies nor those workers nor their families. And then we come up with one in the eye of the paradoxical situation that actually those who protested in Zenica, Tuzli and Sarajevo, etc., protested precisely against those who blamed them for it. People in Western Herzegovina, Široki Brijeg, Grudama, etc. were not protesting. Why? So because there's even an average citizen on the street, an average citizen, what does "waiting worker" mean? What does a demobilized fighter mean? What does it mean to tie up a job? Believe that no one in Shiroki Brijeg could answer you, because that concept does not exist. There is a worker who works, who produces, who sells a product, whose company sells a product, who receives a salary and a point. There is a man who is at the Employment Service who has no job, who has a certain, to say the least, rights based on his status, etc. The others, what does a demobilized fighter mean? Well, I'm a demobilized fighter. I'm here in front of my pension and I work here. And if I didn't work here, I'd be in an office or an infirmary. Therefore, those who have sown these illusions have not been able to tell people, so to speak, what is their problem, and now, of course, they reap the results of it. Now, what I'm trying to say here, which is a very dangerous tendency, and I can't help thinking that actually these events weren't a project or at least a cause for an extra-institutional change in this country's system. What am I saying? Watch party behaviour, political parties in these four cantons, etc., from Bihac, Zenica, Sarajevo, Tuzle, etc., which have most of them there. And look, says the treatment of these parties in these parliaments, so the introduction of extra-institutional ones, so to speak, of elements in the institutional system, of the so-called citizens, of their demands, of even those representatives at their sessions, etc., etc., what does that mean? What kind of message is that? And what it suggests to me is that these events are used at least as a cause. Here, a few days ago, I received information that this Federal, I will repeat another time, an unconstitutional, illegal and illegal government in the procedure has referred the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Ministry of the Interior, which states that all cantonal ministers are coming into co-ordination with the federal interior minister. Also, all the cantonal police commissioners are coming into co-ordination with the federal, or director of the Federation Police. What does that mean? So actually an unconstitutional change, let me put it this way, 33 at this point in structure, constitutional structures and systems in the Federation, and what else can we just assume? And finally to say, what would the Secretary of Security's shift mean here today, so by not getting into the argument, or anything else? It would mean losing the parliamentary majority here, in this situation which is otherwise... hunting in BiH, would mean bringing the state institutions into an extra-institutional situation, without a proposal, therefore, for reconstruction. Although we have a name for reconstruction, I don't see that proposal for reconstruction. So I must say in the end, of course I cannot support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20269	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20270	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I cannot accept the beating of some MPs that tie the fate of the disreputed BiH citizens to the fate of Mr Radončić. This is not a debate, this is a debate about the replacement of a minister who, according to us, did not do everything that the law allows him to do to a system like this, to take over and not take over. The SDP will support the SDA's initiative as a political, serious political party. The reasons why we're going to do this can come down to two groups. One is a moral character, and the other is practically a formal character. Moral character has to do with the fact that almost no country in the world security minister would survive the burning of the presidency building. That's the end. The question is which country of the world is the Minister of Security, which I must confess myself to personally, in his performances on 06th, 07th, 08th, freaked out by messages that had nothing to do with the Minister of Security, and was signed by the Minister of Security. They had more to do with the leader of a political party and the performance towards those who rightly began to demonstrate and justifiably threatened with the status they were in. What does that really mean? The moral reason for Mr Radončić's resignation would also be the structure of the injured. In Sarajevo alone, in my view, as a result of direct instructions, or direct address by the Minister of Security, it is such that since 142 injured in Sarajevo Canton, or Sarajevo, 122 are people from police structures. How many protesters could that...? You answer your own questions when they hurt 122 of the others and Special Forces. What is this level of force and how do you... We in the SDP absolutely support the legitimate demands of people and therefore act accordingly. [[/doesn't understand the cover of myrcophone papers.]] And, Mr Ljubić, by not changing the constitutional structure of the BiH state, or the Federation, we are discussing with the protesters and we are trying to find the best measure of how to solve certain things, but within the framework of institutions, let's say the Canton, or the Federation. What are the formal, or practical-formal reasons why we support Mr. Radončić's shift can be reduced to Mr. Radončić's actions. I received from our services an interview published on 10.02 on Radio BiH in which our security minister admits that he has no idea what is going on in BiH and I quote "I bić be honest so I will say quite directly, although it may shock many listeners of Radio BiH, I did not have any information about last Friday's events," you said. "Even these days in very dramatic events, so we're talking about February 10th, I don't get any operational 34 data from any of our law enforcement agencies, police, intelligence services, nor are they mandatory under the law," our minister said, and the truth is that he could ask for that information under the law about the events of the Coordination Directorate, but unfortunately he didn't get them. Why in the SDP, we think the following issues disqualify Mr Radončić that he can perform the post of Minister of Security. These questions are as follows: Why did police commissioners in Zenica, Tuzla, bow to Sarajevo under threat, under allegations, initiated by the BiH Security Minister for the first day of violent demonstrations by the Independent Committee, due to the alleged excessive use of force in Tuzla? The next question was – was it in accordance with Article 8(f) of the Co-ordination Agency Act, Mr Selimović, who submitted the Security Minister's report on the state of security on February 07th? Obviously not, because at least that's what the minister said. And did Minister Radončić ask for it, and he had to look for it? Why didn't the system institutions act, why didn't the SIPA Special Unit act whose use of the Security Minister co-ordinated the events that were... and which were known to all of us? With this short contribution to Mr. Radončić's shift, I wanted to show that, regardless of the system's weaknesses, Mr. Radončić had at his disposition and had room to act differently and that his address was not in favor of destruction, but in favour of calming the situation. And that's actually why we support your shift, Mr. Radončić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20271	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Emir Kabil, second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20272	Well, I'd like to replicate my distinguished colleague, Mr. Mešić, for the reasons why this initiative was launched. Of course, there's only one reason why it's moral. Here we talk about moral reasons and responsibilities, moral responsibility. The moral category in this country has lost any importance for the past 20 years. It has nothing to do with life. There's an anecdote. You know when they built the fastest train in Japan, the train was three minutes late. The director of the Japanese Railways has conducted a harakiri. That's a moral reason, because he promised his citizens that the train would always come and be 2 seconds late. It's not an anecdote, it's true, but it's got an anecdote exchange. In our country, or in the Federation, citizens rebelled against local authorities. You know in which cantons the riots broke out. The riots didn't break out at the state level, the riots didn't break out in RS. They broke out into four cantons, and they know who's in power in those four cantons. If we're going to talk about the moral category, they're asking for resignations, leave. And why, given that moral value, my esteemed representative, all those responsible executives and people in order to warn everything that will happen later, did not resign immediately. Because as soon as some resigned after a six-day break, the riots calmed down. So I'm saying that we don't use such big words of morality, ethics, when morals and ethics in our Bosnian-Herzegovina politics are a really totally deviant category. Morale doesn't live here, morale doesn't live in this House either. Mr. Radončić's resignation will improve the state of the citizens in this country? If he wants to, he'll resign immediately. They will increase their wages; they will, and they will increase their security; they will. No, this is about a replacement of classical thesis, to step forward of that man simply disrupt certain and 35 established principles of behavior that should hold the status quo. He made it clear what the problem was, he kept repeating it and it clearly irritated it, especially in the year that is now current, and that is the pre-election year. So, I'm asking you to really get kicked out of the moral categories. We can put everything else on the agenda and discuss everything, but the moral category is put as the main category for this whole thing, is I mean apurdicated and deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20273	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20274	Thank you. Another replica and the last replica, but I would like to ask my colleague Mirsad Mešić one question. Did you ask your Minister at the Federation's level about what was done and how it was done? The Minister of the Federation is from the SDP, did you ask him if and why it was not delivered to the Minister of Security that a crisis staff was formed at Federation level? Did he do what the CID did? Why only iron fences were put in front of the government and they are not in front of the presidency, because the presidency is in the jurisdiction of the Federal MUP, because there is also the Federation Presidency. Have you developed an entire system of responsibility in this part of the process and what should be done and whose other responsibility is it? A month and 10 days have passed, a month and 10 or 12 days have passed, I haven't seen any, no request at Federation level to do something about what happened exactly in the Federation, not in the RS, except that everything is transferred to the Minister of Security, although jurisdiction is right in the entity. The only request for suspension or liability is for an employee who has provided information to the Minister of Security that a crisis staff has been formed. And it is considered illegal, illegal, that a federal ministry employee informs the state-level security minister that a crisis staff has been formed. The libel is a rain that only rains in success. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20275	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, this agenda item on the BiH Security Minister's replacement initiative, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, is on the agenda. And it seems to me from these discussions and replicas so far, the least we can do is talk about the needs of Mr. Minister's shift from this position, but much more about the reasons that led to this situation happening. So, eventually, after these riots that were in 06, or 07.02, of course, there is one situation in the country that needs to be found. This is also a pre-election year and we have been through some parliamentary issues and through some debates very clear and decadent about the needs and early elections, about the responsibility, not only of the minister, but of the entire Council of Ministers, the entire government of the Federation, the entire government of Canton Sarajevo, because what happened, if we talk about Sarajevo, if 36 we're talking about Sarajevo, then something happened in the area where the Cantonal Police Department and the Cantonal Ministry... We'll be back a year and a few days, when we were surrounded here and then she was, she said, a co-ordinating role as minister. The minister was then at the height of the task, but they weren't the cantonal minister and the cantonal chief of the police administration, they weren't on assignment because that coordination role ended then, because these people weren't from the same political parties, so someone wanted to get political points, wanted riots that happened here around us, where we were sort of trapped here in this building. What my colleague Dervos was saying, something similar happened, we have a man who shoots, a police station is there 100 meters, but people are standing and watching, says it's not our jurisdiction, we're local, municipal, community center, it's jurisdiction, I don't know, cantonal, so here's the federal, etc. This problem was discussed by the Federal Parliament, where it was clearly stated that the jurisdiction of the Cantonal Ministry and the Police Department and the Federal Ministry, which was finally confirmed by the director of the Federal Police Affairs Administration, Mr Lukač, who in some way sought, when the presidency building was threatened, that is, part of the building where the president and the president of the Federation were, and then he reacted and did not come to the larger ones there, the arson, the breaking, I don't know about the wounding, etc., injury in essence. There was no wound while this cantonal building died. Here, he says there were words, or these events were in four cantons. Here, I ask the question to all of us – is the minister responsible for what happened in Mostar, where I was, where there is no police commissioner at all, here, asking if I am the minister responsible, Minister for not naming the Police Commissioner in Mostar? So the parties can't agree that they're in power, which is in power of legal, legitimate, constitutional, so they can't agree on the commissioner, so there's no one to run the police, so that's what Minister Radončić should call someone down there -- de boys, set yourself up so that some foreign buildings don't burn down. So here, the thesis has changed, when it comes to where it's sought, it means someone in this whole thing, and in normal countries, when these things happen, it needs to be answered, it's a fact. But since BiH does not have a regulated system, because coordination, if the minister co-ordinates with some forces, it does not have the authority to command, has no power to remove, etc., these are powers at quite other levels. And I think we should look for a problem for this condition, this already, if it is a problem, at these levels. The problem isn't the police force. Police forces are there to protect the constitutional order of BiH, to protect the citizens, to protect the facilities, and to that end, Minister Radončić, who, frankly, has shown at the minister's position that something else can be done that has been the Pax so far. That those powers which, or privileges, when we talked about the privileges and abuses of privileges that his closest associates have, may be reduced to some minimum measure, or that these privileges, if we talk about them, may be taken away and what he himself has shown by some act. You don't ask any of us to work without compensation, to do without pay, we're not able to do that, many of us, but I'm saying, he's shown quite the other side how it can be done. And these depraved, humiliated citizens of BiH just see what we're doing, for the sake of us who don't see them, because we've been drinking ourselves with some kind of authority, some kind of power financially, politically, etc., and we don't see these ordinary people, because it hasn't been the last year, the last two years, that led to a situation like this. For 20 years, 20 years they've managed some of these systems, from the level of canton, the municipality, the Federation, the RS, I don't know either, the state of BiH, we're wondering today what our situation is. 37 Here is my colleague Ljubić, the speaker of Parliament, Professor Dr Božo Ljubić, who has spoken of both the unconstitutional and the illegal, and the illegal government, and the incompetent government, and he has been in power since I have known him, whether he is a minister, or the President of Parliament, and here he is today. So, he was a five-year minister, for five years he held the BiH Ministry of Transport and Liaison, I, his successor, and yet there is no bridge there on the Sava in Orashje, here's an end to this contest. What? Well, it's about crime. That this is how it testifies to us and from this close friendly, neighbouring country of Croatia, the condemnation of the political party, it has never happened in history. Perhaps this minister of security will contribute in such a way that some processes are launched, and already something is, about identifying the responsible and perpetrators for some of the works that happened in BiH, which I am very interested in, and I think Mr Božo Ljubić himself, about the case, you know well what I'm talking about, the Leotar case, which the Minister of Security has been talking about lately. And I'm saying that, so someone who was in power and now says, suddenly someone who was, I don't know, one or another. If someone unconstitutional had had the chance, then, he had the opportunity because there were people at the time, that the Constitutional Court decided on it, but they made it impossible, they also disabled the opportunity for the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court to say whether someone was unconstitutional. And it's not right for someone to say who isn't and is not a lawyer, nor is it in his jurisdiction or authority to say that someone or something is unconstitutional. Now, these are like parrots, we saw here, colleague Franjičević, Božo Ljubić in front of the cameras coming out here, saying that someone is unconstitutional, illegal, illegal, but that's where you are constitutional, legal, illegal, our condition isn't exactly like that. I was the Prime Minister in Široki Brijeg, about 2,800 people in the Western-Herzegovina County have, Professor Ljubić, who are not bound by a working internship. The companies that have failed are recently one of the agencies, not the association agency lit candles in Ljubusko for companies that have failed, whose workers have lost their jobs, Hotel Bigeste, Confection of Ljubusko, Winery Ljubusko, Tobacco Station Ljubuski, I don't know which, I think, is Soko or Famos. Something similar in Shiroki Brijeg, I've been dealing with this problem, it's OTP, Novogradnja, Tobacco Station in the city center, etc. So 2,800 people have who, and there are developed defenders there. So, what, he says, there people don't talk here about these things like that happening in parts of Bosnia? Well, people have, we have to be honest, and what Professor Kabil said, morale here, so we have to look into the eyes, people have Croatian passports, like you and I do, so they have a chance, from my Jurišić it's gone three months, 20 in Germany. So they went to work there, since it was us, and in history we went, he was my father in Germany, so they went there. So they didn't express their dissatisfaction, so on the street, they left, so they went to work in Germany.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20277	Comrade Jurišić, you can take the line, when your colleague Ljubić...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20278	Here, let me finish. Here, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20279	Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20280	Here, and I can say here what Mr. Franjičević said, the club, the Mixed Club, is whether, and probably on behalf of Božo Ljubić, although I... did not..., he is not ready to support the SDA initiative when it comes to the shift of the Minister of Security, Mr. Fahro Radončić. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20281	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20282	My kolega Jurišić, it is my great pleasure that you respect the president of the Club mixed, so based, therefore my discussions will also not support this shift. The second thing, yes, is that you were headed by the Government of West-Herzegovina County for 4 years to a large extent and my credit, but unfortunately, many are calling me today. But I don't want to talk about it. So I wasn't in power for 20 years, and in that period where I was, I was in institutions only in the service of the people and not in power. And from 2000 to 2007, I wasn't in my opinion, so to speak, a firm decision in power, as it is said, not in the local community, because I didn't want to, I was head of the orthopedics and trauma department at the medical school and the doctor at the hospital, therefore, did not. However, when I mentioned this government unconstitutional, illegal, illegal, and you added incompetent, which I completely agree with, I mentioned only in the context that it is the most responsible for escalating this crisis in the last three years, and not that it is the only one responsible and most responsible for all that has been followed as the cause of this dissatisfaction and this, so to speak, the poverty and humiliation of the people who have started protesting from Tuzla and beyond. And that, of course, is clear. And now, of course, we can now speculate on why these protesters, so they didn't nick any federal institutions in Sarajevo or Mostar, why they carefully bypassed in Mostar the building of federal institutions that were on their way from the eastern coast from where they were headed for the western part of Mostar, where they set fire to the government building and the parties, etc., etc. These are all the questions that we can now ask many answers to. But what I would essentially like, when I came out for a pay phone, was to answer Mr. Mešić. Yes, it is an out-of-institutional action and it is an action that the authorities in these four cantons, or political parties that are responsible for the government support, including, so to speak, representatives of the so-called. The tides that, as we can see, represent not a small percentage but a change of citizens and in these cantons, not to speak of the Federation and the state. And then, let me put it this way, it's indicative that this Federation government puts in the process of laws that mean further centralization of the Federation, of the confiscation of the anti-constitutional jurisdiction of the canton, and then it imposes on me actually one, so to speak, the conclusion that these protests may have been used as a project or purpose as a cause to do what is now being done. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20283	Thank you. Replicate reply, Honourable Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20284	Mr. Chairman. Although this has nothing to do with the debate initiated by Mr Ljubić, I do not know the basis why you are the first to claim by this House's chairman on the extra-institutional 39 actions. So it's about demands that some government supports or does not support. In Zenica, the government operates at full capacity. If that's non-institutional, then you're right, but I don't think you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20285	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20286	Here, just for a little while, I won't be long, what Mr. Ljubić said was that the government puts the law into practice. So listen, the government can put into law procedure, there's a parliamentary majority in which, as far as I'm aware, HDZ 1990. In the House of Representatives, meaning the Federal Parliament exists, means the parliamentary majority in which, among other things, the HDZ 1990. There's a club of people, there's a House of Peoples, it means whether the law will see the light, etc. Anyone may and may have the right to propose, in accordance with some procedures of business, legal, constitutional, can propose law. And so can this government, but I say no one will surely take any constitutional jurisdiction and certainly the government of the Federation. I'm not here to defend this Federation government or attack it, it's not the subject of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20287	But it's the cause.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20288	Well, it's not the cause, if it's the cause, here I am, Mr. Franjičević, dear colleague, you are one of the causes here, HDZ BiH. And then reading these media exactly gives me the right to, once again, that exactly HDZ 1990 led with Mr. Ljubić made this problem. Because we were in the elections together, we are the electoral will of the joint Croatian peoples, Božo Ljubić and I with 52,000 votes sitting here today, and today, here we are, not to say, in different camps. So if we're talking about political responsibility, moral responsibility, then we have to ask ourselves where. Then surely, it means that this coalition called the Croatian Coalition, here it is written on our tiles, is it, I think this is the third time I've told you, and we've been together in these elections and if we've formed a government together then we wouldn't be in this situation. And then, I say, it gives me the right to think about how he got involved here, through the HDZ of BiH, the sister party from Croatia, is that, who did this, so today you're talking both illegal and like this. But I'm saying, it's not the subject of this session, it's what it is, and that's why I'd like it not to talk too much about the Federation government here, because there aren't even people out there to defend themselves eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20289	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20290	Thank you. 40 The fact that there are no MPs who come from the RS have not been reported in the discussion so far does not mean that we are not interested in this topic and although we think that the biggest part of the problem is if we sharpen the visor(?) in the Bosniak part of the Federation of BiH, for several reasons we must say that we are also interested in this topic. In continuity, this is the third minister of security to be changed in this House. You will sjetiti that it was a colleague of Sadiković, a colleague of Ahmetović, and now a colleague of Radončić. I'm not going to say that, in my personal opinion, colleague Radončić was the best security minister that's been here so far, if we mention these three ministers, but I also want to say that people have solved that problem already. Give the man he can support and the majority of the congregation and do his job. The second reason I came forward is because the biggest part of the problem we put here is that it's just an individual in a particular place. When there was also an siege of Parliament, and what was happening on February 07th, we do not mention and should mention that the main problem in the BiH Prosecutor's Office is also other levels. They have a whistle that they don't even hold in their hand, not in their mouth, but in their pocket, when which institution is going to do its job, and the directors of those institutions are covering behind those prosecutors. You know why? Because no one can replace them. No Niko in this country can hurt them. People are determined by fate, even by the Constitution of this country. Did someone make a mistake? These parliamentarians here, our colleagues, they question and do what they want in this country because no one can do anything to them. And it will not be said here in this House, but that the minister is guilty. Of course, the minister, whoever comes, this seems to me to be catching some pre-election positions in the Bosniak people for high posts from the presidency and further, and that the fight is in that position, that it is quite logical that ministers seek greater competence at the level of BiH and that they will not get it from the RS, which is clear to all. So it's no problem who the individual is there and it's no problem that the RS won't get support for something like that, but you can't ask us to try to stop an entity vote from changing or not changing. The Federation colleagues agree, we from the RS will honor your agreement whatever agreement is made, because we know that whoever comes to the minister what it is to do to him, from which people, when it comes to that position. But I just came out to say that it's wrong to end this whole discussion of who's guilty in this country, not to mention that the main culprit in the institution that's out of the system, which is enough for itself, which decides about fate, both people and the entire system in BiH, which is the Prosecutor's Office. And finally, I'm glad my colleagues from the U.S.A., when we talked about Šarović's shift, when you said it was illegal that it would fall in court, that the same principle you've now applied. Nothing, thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20291	Here, I'll explain very briefly, that is, our position in relation to this initiative. So, we will be abstentions, as we have been restrained and when the term of office, the Council of Ministers was appointed, and when they were done all after that construction, reconstruction, compositions and everything else already as they were called. The basic key reason for this position is as it has been. No situation and regarding the mandaters, the Council of Ministers, setting up ministers, changes, etc., was motivated or supported by programming documents, plans, directions of action, etc., but simply from the very beginning here it was a political struggle, not to say a reckoning for positions and fighting for chairs, here to be clear. After 15 months, then, we were without the Council of Ministers for 15 months, and in 2 years we had 3 41 reconstructions or transmutations, etc. None of these acts brought anything new only made the situation worse and slowed down the work of this Parliament. I'm talking about a whole series of these events of this kind. So, we won't, we'll be restrained. Of course, it would be an opportunity as an opposition party to remind the electoral winners that the elections were practically won by promising programming coalitions, a new spirit, etc. And it seems that what we were saying was true when the prime minister was appointed that the 2006-2010 mandate, compared to this one, would be well mentioned. And a very brief comment, therefore, and in addition, that is, the very thing about protests, or demonstrations of citizens, etc., this Parliament has never and I do not know whether it will receive some kind of official information about the events and whether it will deal with it. So, just a few more comments, when it comes to me, I will not talk about justifiable and unjust demonstrations of citizens for a simple reason, because they are directed towards me as a politician, or my party, regardless of what we are now in opposition for the last three years, but I can say that there are two things that this Parliament could do immediately in the direction of justifiable, here I am now saying, justified demands regarding this Parliament. We've got an 11th paycheck, so let's get you out of here right now. And we have the opportunity to make early elections, I'm afraid it's pretty late for them, but we're going to support that, too, we should have done it when it clearly proved that the parliamentary majority in this House is not there, that it doesn't work, etc. So, here's the final, another brief comment, it's not a moment or time for me to polymize now with this Bosniak reckoning, the political Bosniak reckoning, it's about the political parties' reckoning, I don't see that Bosniaks have something on their necks, it's not just about the Bosniak problem, it's not about the four canton problem. This is about, I believe that we finally realized, if we didn't understand then we have a terrible problem, this is about the problem of all of us, the problem in BiH, the problem of people living in BiH. Today it's here, I'm glad there's no problem in Široki Brijeg, I'm glad there's no problem in RS, I'm glad there's not in any part of this country, but I'm afraid that's not true, there's problems all over BiH and that's the only way to look at it. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20292	Thank you. Comrade Božo Ljubić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20293	My kolega Belkić, so I didn't say that there was no problem in Široki Brijeg, and there's certainly a problem. I think there are 10,000 unemployed people. There are also problems in Duvn, or Tomislavgrad, which, according to media reports, has moved thousands of people working there for the past year, but has gone, therefore, to work in EU countries because they have not found jobs there. However, no one treated them nor treated themselves as waiting workers, as demobilized fighters, but they were all fighters of course because they were in an active age, etc., I'm talking, so I'm talking about the need to change one philosophy, one mentality, so to speak, which will be directed towards developmental projects, and not the radiation of illusions to people that a dead company is possible, here's to mention one Dit who was a respectable plant of detergents in the former state, which produced and sold goods throughout the country, so it's possible to resuscitate in a way to subsidise from 42 opportunities to millions of donations, so to say, from the federal budget, because it's not possible to say so. Therefore, we have a second example, and we have my neighbor Mirko Grubešić who privatised, but paid, Saponia Osijek, who today sells detergents, kaladontes, etc. all over the region and here in BiH, etc., etc. So, the hundreds of millions that have gone, to put it this way, in Kriva, unsuccessfully, in Konjuh, were actually to be used in healthy development projects and incentives for people who would start production, and just in a completely newly established company that today might employ all of these workers or most of these workers. So, God Bog I said no problem, there's definitely a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20294	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20295	I thank the chairman. Without the intention of any serious discussion, I was thinking, but I think there is a need with a lot of delay to react to what my colleague Sarajlić said about the address of the SIPA director at the meeting of the Kolegijum, which was spoken of by fellow Đugum, and what he said, ripped out of context, that's how it is. We don't need the SIPA director talking about the powers, we can see it both in the law, in the performances, both on the Internet and anywhere, but he ripped the prosecutor's role out of that context. And when you return the prosecutor's role, here comes fellow Sarajlić, when you return the prosecutor's role in the context of the authorisation of the SIPA director, then you get the whole. That's not the role of the prosecutor, because everyone's running away, which would be like the devil from the cross, from the role of the prosecutor. And everyone's running away from talking about prosecutors and everyone's looking to get around them, and it's getting to me now not to say more interesting and some kind of obsession about how everyone's running away and even getting into trouble by running away from the real problem, because they don't want to say that, I'd like to remind you of that situation before the BiH Court of Justice when the prosecutor in Tuzla ordered you out of bed at night. It's an indicative situation, the man was watching TV and he remembered that he had legal authority and ordered the same moment that the bully who beat his wife would be arrested, because the law allowed him to do so, and that's why he was put there at the same time, the second he could react. And you're all hearing why prosecutors in other places won't react, not in front of the presidency, not in many, but here you are still, here's when you keep quiet, and so am I. And then others even suffer the consequences of not having prosecutors and judges react. They even agreed because they were part of an earlier story. And those who suffer the consequences today were part of the prosecutor's non-response story when this building was blocked. They were part of the story, supporting the prosecution's intentions to make us here people do what they... Now they're in a position to answer for what they shouldn't. It's a fact that a lot of people are running away about, because I expected a lot more from this debate today, that, obviously, everyone will be quiet about the main problem. I'll be quiet, too. Everyone knows a lot more, but about that, they bring it down to the level, because it's very interesting that all the latest security ministers' mandates are Bosniak. And all the Bosniak ministers have been removed and all have been removed by the Bosniaks. And all and one shift from the security minister was some sort of inside the Bosniak reckoning. What's in the background? In the background is what we keep quiet about today, and what we won't talk about, and there are some other things that are rolling that are much more important, more significant, then it comes down to this officer, I don't know, whether he should have ordered this one or that one now. But now, that's the situation, if that function is being followed by someone, I won't call now a curse or some fate, but these are facts. The fact that this came from the order of the same ones who named them by, and each time 43 remained many of them inexplicable. And Mr. Sadović left without trying the charm, that he didn't say much about why, how, something happened, and many others, I don't know how it happened either. As long as we keep quiet about it, it means as long as those who are obliged to this state to protect the law and they are silent, they behave, said counterpart Živković...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20296	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20297	As a country in the country, I end up, and everyone sees that this sacred cow is not touched, even preparing for some personal sacrifice, so be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20298	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20299	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. What would you say, fellow Beriz, I'll be brief. I would like to state the position of the DNZ on the request for the replacement of the BiH Security Minister. As you know, the DNZ is not part of the parliamentary majority and I am therefore in a more comfortable position here, because I have no obligation to respect the parliamentary majority's views. But I want to express my concern about the approach we have in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, especially when it comes to the functioning of the BiH-level executive. Personally, I do not believe that the state can be guided in a way that, from case to case, such decisions on reconstructions, i.e. the replacement of this minister now, that the political parties that are part of the parliamentary majority return services to each other in a way that replaces one or another political party. Of course, this can happen because there is no clear programme behind the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary majority cannot be a simple sum of hands in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It could, but it shouldn't, because there should be some common programme behind the parliamentary majority and some common goal or objectives where the parliamentary majority is heading, or in which direction BiH is heading. Whether Minister Radončić has done his job well so far or not is not very difficult to say, but it is evident that, in the work of the BiH Ministry of Security since he is a minister, there are certain developments, certain progress that can be seen. Whether the next minister of security will do a bad job, he probably won't either, because I want to believe that people who come to these functions have good intentions when it comes to BiH. However, what concerns us, therefore, is this approach that we in the election year in the election campaign that has already started doing a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers and thus changing the outside picture, but the essence of the problem remains, because what we are doing is not a change of system, and it is obvious that the system in BiH is looking for root and rapid changes. I will be restrained in voting on the SDA initiative, but I had, therefore, the need to say the DNZ's position on this issue. Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20300	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20301	Thank you, Chairman. The SDP MPs' position was expressed by a respected counterpart, Mešić. And as far as that attitude goes, we as a club stand behind it. What I want to react to is a few discussions that talk about within the Bosniak conflict. I think it is very wrong for BiH to share politics in Bosniak, Serbian and Croatian. And I think it's a sword with two blades whose consequences of possible, unfortunately, and those who talk about it are not aware. The fact that most MPs, including citizens of this country and Bošnjak, are currently in favour of the shift proposal, does not mean that this is a matter that only Bosniaks need to deal with. It's about the Ministry and the Minister of Security. Equally, it cannot be concluded that the Croatian issue is that the minister remains, as most of the MPs who the Hrvat have declared themselves in that direction. So I really appeal, this point is over, but there are still a lot of questions that are treated this way and I really appeal to my colleagues that this kind of discussion, at least from the House of Representatives, we try not to throw out, but to contain it to the greatest extent possible. He has a home of people who serve for it. And since I've already reported that I'm responding, I'd also like to react to a part of the presentation of a distinguished colleague of the Kabil. In his presentation as an argument why the SDP Club will support this initiative, counterpart Mešić said there are, as far as we are concerned, moral reasons and formal reasons. In that sense, counterpart Kabil reacted, saying, I quote, that morally in this country has lost importance, which most of us probably agree on here, but also said that we should throw out the moral category as a reason for resigning. I don't know what fellow Kabil meant by this, but when a politician says that a morale category should be thrown out of political life as a reason for resigning, it's a very negative message sent to the public. We, dear fellow Kabil, need to work together to ensure that the morale you say is lost in this country, and I can agree with you to a good degree when it comes to politics, not to say that the moral category should be thrown out as a reason for resignation. Finally, your party, among other things, potentiates, and this performance of yours has confused me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20303	Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20304	I don't know how far I have to go with my visor sharpening on what I thought I was saying that my colleagues wouldn't twist the words that I'm using here, but my thought as well as what I was about to say. So, when I spoke within the Bosniak conflict, I was referring specifically to my colleague, current Minister Radončić, to Mr Izetbegović's presidency and Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija. On three Bošnjak, the man who competed in the previous term who would be a member of the presidency. And now, in my opinion, in this pre-election period, a competition is being held that will take the best starting positions for such a battle. Who is 45 in these teams supporting them, whether it's civil, multinational or remaining support to achieve the best starting positions, it can be considered, discussed and systematically discussed, but my thought was directly within the Bosniak reckoning of three people who seem to have again started to set up the best positions in the pre-election period. So we, at the EU's proposal, can, on a proposal from various embassies, not to discuss international relations in BiH, but BiH, whatever it is in the desire of these people, is BiH, which is in our hearts and cannot escape from talking about that part of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20305	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20306	So I replicated a respected colleague, Magazinović, to be bribed or spinged, that it is Croatian interest to remain a minister of security. It's not about that at all. Croatia's interest, howeverHrvat is less than any of the Bosniaks, if this is a Bosniak position, will be a minister of security, but the Croatian interest absolutely is to have BiH as a stable country, to be internally consolidated, to be a country of rule of law in which the Constitution and laws will be respected, not a country in which the Constitution, specifically the Federation of BiH, contrary to the election law of BiH, the contrary to the position of the BiH Election Commission, as the only state body authorised to interpret the provisions of the Election Law, will be installed by the Government of the Federation of BiH, installing the President of the Federation of BiH and thereby pave the way for the future, is now close to the past, and I hope that there is an unconstitutional and illegal future action of these and such individuals, institutions and bodies. So, Croatia's interest is that we have a stable situation, not a new destabilising situation, because it is more than clear that in the current situation the Security Minister's Change Initiative means an absolutely large questionnaire in terms of the functioning of the Council of Ministers and in terms of the functioning of the general state authorities in BiH. And of course we're not into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20307	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20308	I can't help thinking it's a big shame that counterpart Franjičević isn't an MP in the Federal Parliament, because he's every single one of his exhibits, whatever the subject is, either starts or ends up with a federal topic. Who knows? Maybe in the next term. What am I really, what did I want to react to? I wanted to react to the completely wrong interpretation of what I said by my colleague Franjičević and I will try to speak again and speak a little slower. I said that the majority of MPs, who are also Bošnjak, support the change of the security minister, does not mean that this is just a Bosniak issue. As the fact that most of our colleagues who are Hrvat against it does not mean that this is a Croatian issue. So that's exactly what I said and my colleague reacted to something that I didn't actually mention. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20309	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, you have a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20310	Unfortunately, I don't have a replica anymore, but I have to rephrase my esteemed colleague Magazinović about the moral category, and I'm not going into metaphysics because that's not my goal, I think I'm pretty good at it. I'm very good here because I'm doing a job where morale is a key part of my job and everything I do every day, and that's why I have the right to replicate. This is about an individual moral act, and an individual moral act or individual moral acts in an institution are a moral society. We don't have enough individual moral acts, gentlemen. You absolutely didn't understand me when you said there was no morality, but morale is at the lowest possible point, maybe you misunderstood me, I don't know how you understood me. I am sorry to have replicated my esteemed colleague Mešić whom I highly appreciate, and who has an extremely high moral dignity, and who together with us four and five months ago from the SBB solved an extremely amoral act and an amoral thing in the ZE-DO canton, the acquisition of medical equipment that is a clean robbery. Niko one asked why they needed to steal 10 million or 6 million. I just brought the papers and the arguments. It's my internal moral act to show that what's being obtained costs three times as much as I got. Therefore, I have the right to speak of moral dignity and moral act. And what I was going to say is, you can't bring it all down to one institution, which is the Ministry of Security, and one man, no matter what he is, you love him, you don't love him. I just said that the moral act needed much sooner to be heard at lower levels that they promised the people when they received plebiscite authority to improve the lives of that people. The people knocked on their door. He didn't knock on my door. Everyone wanted to spill it. Why? Because there'd be a problem. I'm not saying there's no problem in RS, I'm not saying there's no problem in entities, or cantons where the dominant Croatian life is more, but the problem happened here. So, speaking of morality in this case, in my opinion, is deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20311	Thank you. Replica response, dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20312	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20313	You're giving up. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20314	Despite the expectation that this point would be over much sooner than it obviously is, that here we are, at least at the club, here's the club president who made our position very clear. It is difficult for the simple reason that persistent insistence, meaning the persistent insistence of one part of fellow 47 to re-force, apply, manifest double and triple standards, irritate. And because of the fact, it means that there is still the public, and this public, here is their dissatisfaction with these pasts, and today it shows no matter what number, and shows very concrete remarks and very specific demands. And I'm surprised that the distinguished colleagues who specifically insist on working with, here are the protesters, to respect their views, have set out first with an initiative to replace the Minister of Security. I haven't heard from any of the protesters that he asked for the Security Minister's shift. I followed, probably like you, but no Protestants, not in any place, not in any place where it happened, not one, here's Plenum, uh, however I was experiencing it, I didn't hear that request. And now I find it very interesting to defend the Minister of Security at all, there is no need, from where this request is top priority, if we already respect the justified demands of the protesters. Protesters say criminal privatisation took place in this country. Is there anyone who might think he didn't? With the right of counterpart Kalabić to warn that we do not think we have an investigation into these numerous criminal privatisations. So do we know who's supposed to be conducting investigations, if they exist, so if there are criminal privatisations? Who are you supposed to be running these investigations? Is that the Secretary of Security? So the Minister of Security has no operational jurisdiction, and it's clear to all of us, so I don't see it now, I say it again without intent and no need whatsoever. I once of the aforementioned security ministers from this pay phone there used to talk – don't be angry, don't be referring to you, you don't ask yourself anything, you don't have jurisdiction, you can't be responsible. But he didn't get me, so he got into a fight with me. So, I hope this minister doesn't mind me telling him that unfortunately he's not asking for anything outside this building. The question, therefore, is how moral it is to seek responsibility from someone who does not wonder. So we have a system so set up and I'm surprised that, about all these events, that's the only one, and that's why we talk a lot more about other issues than this formal request. So, there was a need for us to consider, evaluate, evaluate the overall situation in view of what was happening, given what was indicated, given what was required and that as a House of Representatives, as the most legislative body of this country, we would say our position. We didn't have that chance even today when we should have maltenes without discussing this point pleading, because this point and this request will each be declared as predetermined. So no one's going to make a statement about whether or not someone's going to convince him by their argument, because there's a lot of questions here. But we have to take care of it, so we can't every 15 days set new standards, every 15 days talk about the same thing completely different, act, and then pretend like no one else sees it, because it's a little insulting to those of us who follow it. We had here 15 days ago, 20 days of discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Electrotransmitters. I remember being attacked as the greatest enemies of this country, which we are the ones who have ever supported. And by those same yesterday in the House of the People, the law was supported, and none. If they're the enemies of this country now, I think at least we know that we're all if it's an enmity to this country if you don't pass one law. We are not discussing today, and not just today, unfortunately we have been discussing this issue too long to discuss the right topics. We too often get set up, and we unfortunately swallow it, to discuss something we shouldn't discuss, so that we don't discuss something that we should discuss. And when I think about the causes and causes of what's been going on, that I'm not giving any name, over the past month, which is happening right now, I'm getting closer to thinking that there's still some kind of a scenario. And it's hard to believe it's all an expression of spontaneity. I have been persistent for a year, perhaps already boring some, warning that BiH's Elektroprivreda is not paying taxes and contributions to the Federation's miners. Is someone trying to get the miners out on the road, too? Maybe that's part of the script. Because I can't imagine a company that doesn't pay 200 48 million taxes and contributions from which is the largest part of pension and health miners, and that is to say by chance. Is that part, I mean, are we going to discuss these things then, let's really deal with the situation in the country? Don't let us keep getting out of here spontaneously. These days we had a protest of agricultural producers and then they came to the prime minister and said, "It will be tomorrow." So what do people have to come if they have the right to? Why isn't that worth it? What they must protest, and they protested, if they have the right, if they have no right, they have no right. Apparently they do. But who doesn't have enough of this protest needs more protests. And people rightly warn. The other thing is, I'm saying again, which is what many of us are warning us from this ministry's jurisdiction. We had, and today we have the law on the agenda, if I am well, in the procedure, it will be declared that it has fallen, is it about that, an important law, warns that it will have adverse consequences for the citizens of this country, but we will not discuss it, let's talk about something else. Let's discuss whether the minister in one ministry that is absolutely emptied from jurisdiction, whether it will be this one or that one. Unfortunately, it's not too important, unfortunately. So let's make sure that we're not all short-term memories to remember a little bit and try to be more correct and according to the ones we're sending messages to. So, we the problems of the people of this country, we can solve here through the adoption of laws that will be in the interest of these people, and that is the greatest contribution that we can make to stabilising political opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20315	Thank you. Replica is it, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20316	Well, I have to replicate Mr. Lozančić and remind him that few people here have the right to appeal to principle and morality. Mr. Lozančić, wasn't the HDZ's position that you would always support what the majority representatives of one nation require? Didn't you say you support Šarović's shift because the majority SNSD requires it? And now you don't have that principle. So don't apply to principles both morality and here where it's counterproductive. As far as the SDS is concerned, we don't care. So here's to rephrase it, we don't know how we're going to vote. We'll make a decision at the club before the vote, and we don't care how we vote, we don't have to vote at all, because it's not our job. This is part of the political circus and political folklore that has been happening since the formation of this Parliament, since the establishment of the Parliament's College, through the Council of Ministers, through the shift of various combinations and always are two SNSD and SDP players, and it is their main responsibility because they have received the most votes in this Parliament and cannot escape from their responsibilities. And these are the two parties that formed a climate like this. And it's no secret. So you're making a crisis all the time so you don't see the catastrophic situation behind this government. And this item of the agenda is also in terms of it, and that's why we don't care because nothing will change if Mr. Radončić is removed today or stays in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20317	Thank you. 49 Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20318	I can't help but try to respond to this attack on principle by Mr. Bosić. The principled position of HDZ is precisely the one that Bosić said that HDZ will always stand on the side that has national legitimacy when it comes to the Serbian people and its representatives and when it comes to the Bosniak people. But in this case, we have no, no, we really have no choice but to do as we do. Why? Because, for two reasons, because it's very clear that it's a few months until the election, that's one thing, and the other thing here is, there's no alternative here. In that previous case there was a very clear alternative, there is no alternative here, there is an alternative to destabilising political opportunities in BiH which, for some reason we are simply not ready to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20319	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20320	Dear colleague Bosiću, I don't know where you found a foothold for our or my indiscipline when I was talking about these questions I was talking about. If you think it is principled to support the opposition party's request and be part of the parliamentary majority then you and I are not talking about the same concept when we talk about principles. Perhaps that is all you should have directed towards the SDP as part of the ruling majority, whether they are principled when they support an opposition to the replacement of a minister who is part of the same parliamentary majority, but you cannot object to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20321	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20322	It's hard for me to speak on behalf of, let's say, the SNSD for the circus you were talking about here, let's talk about general things. Well, weren't you a part of that circus at the beginning of the formation of this House, didn't you initiate this circus to make yourself a Collegy of the House at all? And you only got angry when you were thrown out of the central arena in that circus and sent to the theater, so be angry and you're saying that these others were responsible for the circus. Take responsibility for the circus when you took part as actors, and then let the circus run by watching from the theater. Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20323	Oh, I don't need to get in the way of this. So, what is our responsibility, we bear this part of responsibility, it is true that we are responsible for having influenced perhaps the most dominant 50 formations of this Parliament and that it begins with the work of our demand to force the selection of members of the College. And let me tell you right now, here I think, I think you all know that all the main authorities are now, so the current assembly majority was against it, being blocked right after the 2010 general elections. I don't think it's a secret at all, that's how it is. And it is true, we felt that institutions should function, that the deeper political crisis is not in anyone's interest. And let me tell you, you're the same, I don't think I'm telling you who's unprincipled here, and there's an unprincipled SDP, it's clear, but I have to remind you that you've been constantly pulling your legitimacy out of the story that the rest of the Hrvat are not legitimate representatives because they're minority. And that, I warn you, that's your thing, that's your policy, but I'm just warning you don't talk about principle because there's little principle here.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20324	Thank you. Minister Radončić, is there a need? Minister Radončić, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20325	Thank you. I'll try really hard to be as short as possible. With full respect for the rights of the SDA, the SDP, to trouble my shift I am due to the public and you are obliged to give a few quick and simple information. It was not possible to form a crisis headquarters, public order and peace is in the exclusive jurisdiction of entities, in the Federation of Entitys and Cantons and it's regulated by Dejtonom. And it wasn't so randomly done, nobody was so enthusiastic that by managing a long and short police pipe at entity levels, they transferred it to something called the Department of Security. There is no need to compromise what the 2005 decision says, as its Article 4 says, that it ceases to apply when police reform is completed and the Police Coordination Directorate is formed. These are the reasons anyone can interpret and I don't think they can have any effect when we talk about this. I may last address you here and my responsibility to tell you a few things. You had the Jašarević case, you had a known crisis around this building, we now have these events, the only constant of that is that the system hasn't changed and that by running people in agencies, sitting there for 10 years, they haven't changed. Is it our fault as a society that we don't have a good system, that we invented the Independent Committee, that these independent committees became a basis for the protection of labour, that the responsibility of individual directors, I mean both at the state level and at the entity level, depend exclusively on these committees and not on the Council of Ministers or entity governments, I mean the Federation in particular, that's another thing. And I really want to confirm what someone said from the U.S.A., we as the Department of Security didn't have any knowledge or information about what was going on in the Federation. Unfortunately, the law is like that, we're legalists and we have to respect it. The law says – The Police Body Coordination Directorate has no obligation to inform us, the OSA is under..., the Federal Police Administration has no need to inform us, nor should I as Minister ask what they are doing. For your information, I spoke with Mr. Kurteš, Mr. Goran Zubac and Mr. Himzo Selimović as director and I, it was a communication that I could do in a way that I could talk to my colleague, Minister and Director of the Coordination Directorate. I wouldn't talk about political abuse of demonstrations. You know that the most disgusting speculation has occurred is that it's being done by thugs, maniacs, RS pyromaniacs. That's what one very high-ranking SDA official said, with the illusion that I'm running it. What turned out to be? Seven children or eight pyromaniacs, vandals, and none of them are from Lukavica, all from Sarajevo. And we, 51, fully legalists, advocate that they be completely, completely sanctioned. It is possible that I, as a minister of security, am aware of my competences but also aware of my social obligations to encourage an anti-corruption fight, distracted them, possibly by us, talking to them about the Federation level, as SBB disturbed them. Thanks to our pressure, a list of the biggest debtors has been discovered with strong resistance in the Federation, a list has been discovered, I am talking about taxpayers, the biggest VAT debtors at the state level. We talked a little too much about the need for anti-corruption fighting, about someone buying 130 million tango trains that don't match the Bosnian-Herzegovina tracks. I may have gone too far here for opening a taboo topic of political murder, but I've done it all with a lot of pride, and I'm just gonna keep working on it. I'm like a man who pushed a snowball, you can kill me, change me, a lump of anti-corruption struggles are on its way and going where it's supposed to go. We can be angry, not angry, it's important that I don't have a personal relationship, that there's no interference in the work of law enforcement agencies, that someone who's noticed well here, the SIPA agencies, the Directorates, the Federal Police Administrations are run by prosecutors. They're running investigations under our law. And we, unfortunately or fortunately, have such a system and must respect it. He's not in charge of investigations, nor should he be run by a security minister. We have also given over 150 points as a ministry with the help of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers which have been adopted or some of the laws that have passed, and I really thank you for that. There's here, don't let us mystify things, you know I'm not really afraid of revenge or Iranian hands being deported by diplomats, or intelligence and others. And I have no fear of talking about it at all, it was my responsibility as a minister and citizen of this country and I will be happy to deal with it my whole life. I want to say here that it is good that in all democratic countries of the world, politicians, police officers are chosen for their professional stand or prosecutors have a firmer attitude towards something called civil unrest, whether they are social, anti-corruption or political. Someone called me for reacting that I would address the Independent Committee because a great force was applied in Tuzla. And it is, so you've seen the world's most relevant human rights institutions have taken out 19 cases and asked to be processed. We're using hard words here, I'm very sorry for the injured cops, and every cop is a citizen of our country, living just as badly. But don't let us deal with counterfeits again. As a security minister along with the entire ministry the next day, I asked to check on injured officers, and unfortunately, they had injuries, but none of them were too heavy. So we have to have one attitude that no one in 10 years, including that direkcija, has ever gotten a rubber bullet or tear gas and those who rebel, our citizens. You've seen and there's the whole mystification, there's been a crisis headquarters at Federation level, I really didn't think, I didn't get any information about this crisis headquarters, it's chaos, panic, crowd, headquarters was built the day before the burning or attempted burning of the presidency building. And I thought people forgot to inform the State Department of Security about the existence of this Staff, and that Staff when it's formed has a very precise procedure for what needs to be done. Couldn't she have put a metal fence around the presidency then? So they couldn't get cops out on the street? And even worse than that, the police officers who introduced me to the existence of this Maltene headquarters have been processed. What would happen... very frankly to talk, if such a phenomenon had happened in the RS MUP? Would we hide, put our heads in the sand, or would we know that we are politically and pre-electionally? Furthermore, let me conclude, my resignation or my resignation has been initiated and those who are asking citizens to leave and I am looking forward to it, but don't be fooled, gentlemen from the SDA, the SDP, will not solve the socio-economic dissatisfaction of citizens. It is no accident that all the authorities were destroyed where the Bošnjak mostly live, it is not by chance that the cantonal governments fell. Why? They were doing dirty privatisations, they had hundreds of companies, someone named it Tuzla, which were 52 destroyed. With one shift, I'm not sure if you're going to do me a favor to commit myself to a pre-election campaign and other things, you're not going to solve the basic problem of citizens, and perhaps even more important thing -- the insensitivity, insensitiveness of your people to the demands of citizens who are the easiest to declare terrorists, people who are destroying constitutional order, people who are being supported by someone, and it's about 560 thousand unemployed people, about 50% of people living on the edge of poverty by European standards, about 75% of young people who want to leave BiH, not because they don't love this country, but because there's no perspective in it. So I apologize and end up with one sentence, I am looking forward to the debate here, even that political bickering of whether Radončić is a Bosniak minister or not. I am very happy that I was the minister of all the peoples in BiH. Check with the Ministry of Security for any discrimination I have allowed, have I looked back at whether some SDA or SDP assistant minister is a member of the Croatian or Serbian people. Where someone's fighting, I'm having a personal compliment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20326	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote in line with current practice and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20327	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20328	There's no need we're all here, we can vote then.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20329	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20330	Ten minutes off on the SNSD Club proposal. [[PAUZA]] SNSD Club President Drago Kalabić explains the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20332	I apologize to my colleagues for the length of the break, it has nothing to do with the consultations, but earlier we agreed to take a break after the breakdown, not knowing that there would be a vote at all, because we've decided, we've made the decision a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20333	Thank you. Please prepare, we are voting on a proposal to replace the BiH Security Minister. Is there any need to read the decision, you all got it? 53 There's no need. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 28, versus 9, abstention 5. With enough entity majority, I find that we have adopted a decision to replace BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radončić. We colleagues and fellow MPs have two opportunities to take a break by 3:00, after we limit the debate to 5 minutes for all remaining points of the agenda and I think it is possible to complete this schedule today. At 3:00, we move on. [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and fellow MPs have a quorum, if you want to keep working, I'd like to move on to point four. _________(?) Action.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20337	I thank the chairman. So, I'm talking about the need for an emergency procedure, not getting into the details of the law, if a debate opens up in that direction, then I'm going to have to fit in with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The obligation of the BiH state is to ensure the functioning of the institutions of government and thus provide citizens with legal certainty, and it is certain that it is an integral element of the principle of rule of law. On the very constitutional basis, where we refer to Article 1.2. The BiH Constitution has been found to be a democratic state operating under the law and based on free and democratic elections. In these two previous sentences, and given the possibility that emergency elections, which have not been defined in our legislation so far, only early elections have been defined, can solve a political problem, or for another reason, by maintaining an emergency election to improve the political situation within the country, we believe that this is the reason for the urgency of this, 54 adoption of this law. In addition, given the regular elections that, if they are held, that is, if this law is not adopted by the majority in this House, it will be held in October of the month, as my colleague Džaferović seemed to have told me this morning when establishing the agenda, unless such a law is adopted by an emergency procedure, if we enter the procedural period, then there is no point in adopting the law because its adoption will coincide with the minority calling for regular elections. So, as far as the need to pass this law in an emergency procedure is concerned, so much so, and when we open a discussion about the content of the law, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20338	Thank you. I believe, as we have done so far, that it will not be possible to avoid the whole law story, because when we move to the voting section, it is very difficult then to open the debate if an emergency procedure goes through, so I would ask you, given that we have shortened the debate for 5 minutes, that in the course of your debate you say and what you think about the law itself, because I think that's a more effective solution. In order not to warn everyone about it now, here are my colleague Magazinović, a few more, as a proposer, sentences to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20339	I'll take the chair, I respect that. BiH is one of the few countries in the EU, unless it is the only one who does not have an emergency vote in its legislative framework. We believe, and we should be honest and say that the last events were the trigger to go towards such a legal solution, that we too must have the opportunity to hold extraordinary elections. I'll remind you, in our Electoral Law, we've defined extraordinary elections that last until the end of the term, and it's exactly prescribed in which case I may be, I was wrong, I told the extraordinary ones I wanted to say early elections, and it's precisely prescribed in which case I could happen. We've had several cases following the death of the mayors in municipalities, we've never had such an election before when it comes to entity, state level and cantonal assembly. At this point, it would not be appropriate to hold elections in May whose term of office would be until October, i.e. to hold regular elections. That would be unnecessary spending and money and energy. And some of the offers that, and the calls that went that way, we really don't think they can be the solution. Therefore, intervention in the Electoral Law provides that general elections, or local elections, or both, may be held in different emergency situations within 60 days of the decision to maintain them, in accordance with the way in which they are made and with the decision prescribed by our legislation. What is most important – the mandate of members of the authorities elected in the snap elections takes a full term of four years and all other procedures are the same as for regular elections and is conducted by the Central Election Commission as for regular elections. So, once again, apart from the early elections that are very clearly defined in the BiH Election Law, under which conditions can be held, this intervention at the Election Law would allow us to hold extraordinary elections for a term of four years and thus, let's say, join the family of democratic states that have this institute. It does not mean that they often use it, but here, I do not need to list recent examples of EU countries using this institute for various reasons. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20340	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We fully understand the SDP proposal, but Mr. Magazinović, we can't agree on two things. Wouldn't it be more useful for BiH if we could unite the general and local elections. 40 million marks in one election would save. Can we do that? We can't. And it's quite clear to you that it's impossible for such an intervention that someone falls five months or six months, or half a year before the election. I'm sick of myself, and maybe I'll make a suggestion... that no one's going to run for anything, even for local elections, that I'm going to be a councilman. I repeat, I won't be a candidate all the time. I will now. But I am telling you about the future of Parliament next, let all these initiatives be in the first year. Change of the Election Law, change of this, change of what is crucial for BiH, and not when the end of the term is still five months and you are pushing these proposals fully aware that this cannot go through, fully aware. Let's let the people last these five months and do everything possible to make this people better, let's at least say two words about the economy. What electoral laws, when the May elections are discussed. Now, let me ask you -- can we urgently adopt that these general and parliamentary elections and local elections are together, 40 million marks is savings? We can't. Then what can we do? There's nothing we can do. So I ask you to really give up this kind of initiative or the amendment to the Electoral Law before, the one where the slope of the meadow has already been threatened, all of this has passed, and now you've remembered that we are doing this now when the term of office is over. Stop these initiatives when none of them benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20342	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20343	I get the feeling that the fellow floor a) hasn't read, under b) after lunch he seems to have eaten some cake, has excess energy. It's whether you're going to be a fellow candidate or not, I don't know, but you don't seem to know either, but we don't need it to be a topic on every agenda point. We can have a special agenda item on whether Slavko Jovičić will be a candidate so we can discuss it. But don't put that on every agenda point, that's an internal issue. As far as this slope of the meadow is concerned, I didn't understand you, I don't understand it, but I won't even comment on it. However, what I want is no problem even proposing, here you suggest the law to unite local and general elections in this framework or someone else and we'll talk about it. And in the meantime, I'm really asking you to read this bill, and even if you have a grudge, I don't have a problem talking about it, but all of what you're talking about has nothing to do with what's on the agenda today. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20344	Thank you. Now you will hear, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, the answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20345	I'm not talking about myself, I'm talking about the proposal. Do you really think I'm insecure and that everything that comes from SDP I don't read? So do you believe that I read it three times? For the first time I've read what I'm interested in, the second time I've seen that I'm not wrong, and the third time I've read it so I can react to what you've suggested. Well, most of all, I read more of your material than SNSD, because I know what we're going to suggest, I don't need to read it. And yours, whatever comes from the SDP, I read it, believe it or not, I don't sleep, I see that as soon as I read it to see what you suggested, because I know that nothing is useful. That's why I have to read it. And don't ever express any doubt that I'm not reading it. Now, would you like me to quote you a few of those members by heart that you don't know. _________(?) Come on. Well, I don't want to make a play here. You've been looking forward to that, haven't you, and you don't know what weed is, so where will you know, asphalt here in Sarajevo? You need to go to the people's village to see what weed is.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20347	Please let go. Okay, let's move on, discussion, esteemed colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20348	Well, I'll do it for a while, so first things first. I'm afraid if we adopt this emergency procedure, it won't produce an effect. If one bill is done, the forecasting one thing I'm afraid we're going to get in maybe a month and a half, two days apart, and then you should see if the financial aspect is more worthwhile, it's not worth it, etc. So, to be clear, I will support that, but it would be good if the motionor simulated the possibility, assessed the duration of the procedure these 60 days, used the experience as long as it takes for the Central Election Commission, etc., but in order not to be misunderstood we will support the emergency procedure. Unfortunately, however, supporting an emergency procedure makes it impossible for a man to point out a few things, but maybe I can explain myself, maybe I'm wrong. If we say in exceptional circumstances, and we don't say what these exceptional circumstances are, I think we're in some kind of trouble. So, I think the current situation in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly deserves elections for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, including both homes, to be made immediately tomorrow because of the situation in both homes. So we simply have a problem with the functioning of institutions. So, this would have to be very clear to me whether a series of different situations can be introduced, or left to assess, etc., which carries with it a certain danger. It is true that the Law provides for the possibility, therefore, in this position of Article 2.3.b) to determine whether the general or local or the general local elections are together. It seems to me that sometimes we are in a situation that 57 elections should be held in one canton, perhaps in one institution, in one entity, etc., perhaps that should have been foreseen. But here, so as soon as I'm determined to support the emergency procedure, all this content story might in some way make no sense, but maybe I'm wrong, so the proposer might have an argument that will convince me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20349	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20350	Thank you very much. Here, almost pick up where Mr. Belkić said. So, when it comes to procedures, I think the procedure should be accepted, and when it comes to the law, I think the law should be rejected. The reason why I say this is, first of all, that when a political party remembers that the country needs an emergency election institute and remembers it at some late hour, then it cannot be understood as a good intention. Especially when one political party remembers to organise extraordinary elections at all levels. And as we know the Parliamentary Assembly is functioning, the Council of Ministers is functioning, the National Assembly and the Government of the RS are functioning. The government of the Federation, for which the political party proposing this law has just been responsible, has not been functioning lately for four cantons. I believe that the promoter felt that behind this proposal would hide what should not be seen in public, and that is its own responsibility for these things that are happening. So the Federation government hasn't worked for a long time. And you know who's responsible for it. He spent too much time choosing the most suitable partners to form government in the Federation and we saw what that came up with. What is particularly surprising to me is that one political party that we all really expected very much from, that its president recently said that unless this bill passes at the Parliamentary Assembly, he would ask the High Representative to impose the law. You know how, a man may not care about his own dignity, but when you go all the way to do everything and everything in the formation of power, and then as a fruit of your own power you can't remember there's an institution of high representative, so remember when you're aware that you don't have any power, the ability to make things happen in society, because you've ruined all the connections you've had, then remember that you could impose it on a high representative. Well, I don't think a high representative can impose it, and I deeply hope that he will never do it, because the experience he's made since the formation of the federal government has given him enough message to no longer interfere with these things. Too many things SDP's been doing lately. Constant proposals by Denis Bećirović also show that he only wants to show how many attempts were made on the holiday law alone, so that he counts how much he received a negative, or negative vote from the RS. We're aware of that, we see what that means. You don't have any partners for what you're proposing, so you're going to have to deal with the consequences on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20351	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20352	Before I move on to a few specific things about the law in question, let me say that there really is a need for extraordinary elections. It also simply says, here is the absence of a majority, including in this Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the general state of the atmosphere in BiH, and especially in the RS, it indicates that there is a need for early or early elections. Given that the Kolegijum has prevented the SDS law from coming here in the procedure to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is also one of the indicators that there is no intention of actually adopting a regulation that will put us in a position to hold extraordinary elections. I'm afraid of what's gonna happen if there's no regulation that will ensure early or extraordinary elections, because it's impossible for anyone to prevent what's going to happen in the near future unless there's an emergency election. So much damage has been done, the people are absolutely dissatisfied, and I don't suppose I should explain it to anyone after all. Why the riot wasn't in the RS and I can explain it, but given the short time I won't get into that explanation, but there will be an opportunity for that part to explain. I think that simply all in itself points to the real need to hold early or early elections. And what we got as a proposal suggests that here, in fact, it doesn't want to be in a position to hold early or early elections. I know that there must be enough capacity in the SDP to propose a law that as such can be something that would be acceptable as a legal solution. Here, let's start with the first member. Let's say for example. The first article says – exceptional circumstances, in exceptional circumstances. There is no description of the exceptional circumstances. So, when you're talking about exceptional circumstances, then if you were going to have this law have that kind of content, you would describe this part of the exceptional circumstances. Next, you mention extraordinary elections, and you're talking about them yourself, and you're not talking about the chapter in the Law itself, to remind you of this text, the original text of Chapter 14. – repeated, delayed and early elections. Since you are introducing a new formulation of emergency elections, then you should at least formulate it the way it should be formulated, and the formulation would be like this - repeated, delayed, extraordinary and early elections. If you were going to do this, I don't believe that you don't know this, but actually you just wanted to suggest something that you're sure won't go through in parliamentary procedure at all. Therefore, to repeat the circumstances, it was necessary to state directly and specifically the circumstances. Since this whole chapter is changing, you should have the title of the chapter read as I said earlier. As regards this second section relating to whether general, local elections, etc. will be held, this is a direct transfer of competence. You know when you propose a provision like this that certainly not a lot of provisions will be supported in the RS. And that's one of the proofs that you don't actually want the regulation to be passed yourself. Next, when it comes to the mandate of members of the authorities elected in the snap elections, it takes 4 years. The much better solution proposed by the SDS is that, in the last year of the mandate, if any kind of early or extraordinary elections are held, full capacity or full mandate is chosen, representatives are elected for 4 years. Well, it's illogical to go now, say, into an emergency or early election procedure. Let us hold elections and that mandate of those elected representatives would be practically 2 months. We all know how much the cost of holding the election. Well, it also makes sense that the SDS's proposal to discuss elections, to keep those elected to have a term of office for 4 years. 59 Next, there is a mass of inadequacy in the law itself that you could have intended to solve, which you could have defined. After all, there is no question of what the regular elections are. I know for sure that you have the capacity that you could and this question the definition of regular choices. Next, there is nowhere in our original law, for example. that the elections are held in October of the month. Look in the environment, you see in Croatia, Serbia, exactly decades ago when elections are held, which is said to be an election year, when, which, etc. You can describe it all together. Also when it comes to the election cycle and the duration of the term of office. And that question should certainly be the subject of an amendment to the existing law itself, but since you didn't want to accept that the SDS proposal even enters the procedure, then I have little space left to say about it. Next, when it comes to shortening its current mandate, let's say Article 8.9. It is also one of the very important issues that needs to be taken, to make such an approach that will ensure that the issue of reducing the mandate is defined by law. Since I'm running out of time, and there's still a lot of questions I wanted to mention, I believe that, of course, these are the remarks to the basic text. I'm not just making remarks on the basic text, I'm essentially. To conclude, what you suggested in this Act is proof that you are proposing something to justify yourself in front of voters to tell them, we wanted and they didn't want to, and in fact they're so-called. The false promises in terms of us are for elections, but, well, no others wanted to, so now neither can we. That's pretty much what it looks like.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20353	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, incorrect allegation, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20354	Thank you. It is quite clear to me that, after some time, my bill will come here before parliamentarians, so that it would be much wiser not to answer, not to face my colleagues and in some way to seek support for that law. But behind me, (?) You can't be patient. I can be patient, only behind me are the arguments, and when I speak with the power of arguments, and not all sorts of animosities, any other political ones, let me say, the sayings we heard here that the College prevented the SDS law from coming on the agenda today. The unprincipledness of the SDS, which in just a few months has been forgotten by you, has prevented your law from coming on the agenda today. I suggested that we act in principle and that when I said that the law that I proposed should come, yours would come today on the same principle. Also, your principle regarding issues relating to the RS has been shown here. Why don't you propose a law in the National Assembly concerning elections in the National Assembly if that's the problem down there. Why are you having problems with the whole RS problem and putting it here in the BiH Parliament to talk about it? So much for your principle, and for other laws and for your support, I would ask you to discuss arguments, not various animities. Thank you. 60 Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20356	Ma, I volunteered to replicate my colleague Bojić for reasons that I could not agree with his findings, i.e. the fact that the SDP in its proposal for this law needed to define more precisely the exceptional circumstances. I mean, in case the extraordinary circumstances were precisely defined, we would all, and the party would most certainly lose, because then there would be no room for creative judgment which circumstances are extraordinary and which circumstances are not extraordinary. It is symptomatic that an identical definition is, therefore, a lack of definition of exceptional circumstances used in a law already mentioned, and my colleague Magazinović will not object to me being referred back to the federal level, the Law on Amendments to the Federation's Internal Affairs Act, and there are mentions of extraordinary circumstances. In some exceptional circumstances, one or more of these are authorized, of course, past and opposite the Constitution, to be able to do whatever he wants, but not to define precisely what extraordinary circumstances these are. So, in this, fellow Bojić, and lies all the beauty of the lack of precise definition of extraordinary circumstances, because then there is an open wide field for the creative engagement of the party.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20357	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20358	This is very interesting, I think it's very interesting and extensive what these special or extraordinary circumstances mean. The question is who will really have, so the role of assessing what circumstances these are and exactly what they will be, here's to say relevant in order to have an early or early election. A very broad formulation so I wouldn't explain it anyway. But, Mr. Živković, your proposal came to Parliament and here in Parliament to vote on it. Here, therefore, it was inadmissible for the SDS proposal to come to Parliament to at least explain it, to say what its contents are. That didn't happen either. At least that's what you could have, if you remember, at least that would be good for something else. Next, as far as the situation in the RS is concerned, I'm telling you, unless there's an early or extraordinary election, something will happen that neither you nor I can influence. It's simply the atmosphere of the RS. Believe it or not, why were there no problems or riots or demonstrations in the RS? Not a mess in the sense that I invite anyone to do something that wouldn't be democratic, on the contrary. The democratic expression of disagreements or troubles in which people living in the RS are today is something that will happen in RS. Why didn't it happen? For the simple reason that it would be attributed to it, this is the occasion of the Federation and would be transferred to the RS with a special explanation like us, or would be accused of many there, as this type of activity is being transferred to RS with the aim of destroying the RS, or endangering the Dayton Peace Agreement of BiH and so on. I say to you if there are no early or extraordinary choices, if there is no reason for us, that kind of dissatisfaction that is present with the residents of the RS will happen, which neither you nor I can influence. I assure you. It's a better variant that we've joined law-making, and you've said yourself that you're not afraid of early elections. If that's a fact, the technical conditions for the election cannot provide the opposition. The SDS in the National 61st Assembly cannot provide technical conditions for the conduct of the elections, it can SNSD because it has the capacity to do so. That's a fact. So if you intend to do what you say you're willing to do in the election process, then that kind of intention is implemented in terms of a proposal that the SNSD can objectively implement. But there's a story here that you're going to place in public, like we're not afraid of early choices, and in reality something else is going on. We're just gonna talk about it, and it's really not gonna happen. But what will happen to us in the RS will happen to what neither you nor I will be able to control. Now, that's a big problem, Mr. Živković, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20359	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20360	I'm from people who want to get everyone out of here clean, make it quite clear what was going on here, how it was done and how it was done. When discussing my request, the Extended College established on December 04th, on a proposal from the SDP MPs' Club, that the House of Representatives declare whether there are business conditions for voting and inclusion in the agenda of the 58th session of the House of Representatives' House of Representatives, Milorad Živković's request. And we've already discussed it here once and made practice in this House that it can't, unlike the previous House calling that it can. And I, as chairman and member of this House, said I – I respect the rule established by the House. And the College said unanimously that it became a rule in this term and you're angry. You're angry because you were unprincipled. Don't be mad at me. The second thing, when we talk about elections in the RS, the president of the SNSD said – propose the law in the RS and we will see if the position will vote. What are you afraid of? Why are you afraid of that proposal? Why do you have problems or think there are RS, I'm not running away from what it's like to talk about and if it's time, but that these stories are told by colleagues in the National Assembly, that we don't do it for nothing? So suggest down, and let them deal, and let's see who votes, who won't vote. On the other hand, when I came out to say, no one asked the Central Election Commission how she felt about this and how things were. You want me to tell you that now the tenders that are scheduled to concern election materials and everything else for the October elections this year until June 06th will still not be completed. What are we talking about? What are we talking about? Who here mentions elections with unrealistic demands that they happen tomorrow, not asking the organizations that are in charge of this country that it can be done, here's the director of the Public Procurement Agency climate-headed because he knows at what stage these actions would allow at all to produce elections in this country, and we're not going to say a word about it here, but we're going to vote, no more journalists are lucky, because their transfer from these sessions I can't recognize in the morning in the papers, it's probably up to editors and media owners, but it doesn't matter it's another story. But can we be honest and look into each other's eyes and tell what's true? How can elections be organised under this Law? Who told the competent institutions that it could be done? Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20361	So there's a division of jurisdiction. It has a part of the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, of course, part of the competence of the RS, or the parliaments of the entities. And the undeniable thing is that we who pass the laws, and then these state institutions, which you are talking about, that need to provide technical assumptions, have been given the legal obligation to implement that part of the procedures laid down by law by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the National Assembly. Mr. Živković, you don't think it's possible that the opposition to anything, which is why we would, so we have made this kind of proposal completely clear and unequivocal. So we don't have any fearers. Bozan has the power to lose power. What can we lose from the opposition, to go to the opposition? Well, I mean, we're already in opposition, so... let's hold the election and we lose something. What are we gonna lose? Well, we're in opposition. Let's hold the election and we're back in the opposition. Only power can lose. The opposition can't lose. So, as far as the election is concerned, definitely and completely clear and unequivocally, that these are false promises and false calls that you are ready to go to early elections, which are objectively necessary in the RS. The proposed law is identical to the Socialist International, which comes from the Federation, from the SDP, completely identical. We will also go towards the electoral body of messages – we will go to the extraordinary elections that will not be made. You can see it from the content, you can see it from the text. Well, don't tell me the SDP has no intention of doing what he's done, that the chapter is changing and he hasn't written in a chapter of content that changes. Well, that's what a trained lawyer knows, I don't need to know, that I, as a layman for that area, point to that kind of defiance that wasn't done on purpose, not done on purpose, but done on purpose. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course. Among other things, the official messenger is not listed, it's part of the technique. So, when you give someone here in the service, they'll make you a better bill than what's been offered now from the SDP. Well, I don't believe that someone didn't take this law that we talked about, if they hadn't read it, and on the basis of this law, they'd have suggested an extra solution that we could at least say -- here's the content of the law. So, the same story is the Socialist International on one side or the other, it's just that one has these reasons, and the other has these reasons. There's no difference, it's the same thing. So there's no willingness to hold an early or early election. But I repeat, for the third time, what will happen in the RS is beyond my and your commitment to what kind of epilogue will have events in the RS that will follow because of the dissatisfaction of people who live, people, fighters, pensioners and all those who are dissatisfied, and there is too much mass dissatisfied in RS, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20363	Thank you. You must know we were kicked out of that Socialist International, but it doesn't matter. Dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First I'm going to say a few things about the proposed law, and then, first I'm going to say something general about the law and the procedure that's being proposed here. The SNSD is acceptable to this procedure as proposed, but only in the sense that we reject this law today and solve this situation. If the SDP is serious about going to amendments to the Electoral Law then it should have been kept in mind that our BiH Election Law has already, someone here said, had already suffered 17 or 18 times in Parliament and that the situation had long matured to do a new fully refined text, a new version of the Election Law, and we also know that the working group that was formed to work on the Electoral Law is actually doing nothing and that the situation is simply blocked. As far as the motion for these changes is concerned, I must say, first of all, the concept and content that has been given here is so confusing that it's simply inconclusive. And if we adopted this today, it's inconclusive for a few reasons. The previous colleagues who spoke mentioned here this first member where it is said under exceptional circumstances. The SDP has come from the existence of some extraordinary or unusual circumstances that should warrant an emergency election, but there is no legal framework to implement it. This should have made sure that we can and agree that there are exceptional circumstances, but these are only, as some colleagues have said today, in four cantons of the Federation of BiH, and not at all at BiH level, which would imply holding an early election. We know when emergency elections are held in normal countries. This is when there are really extraordinary circumstances, when authorities do not function or are blocked by the absence of a congregation majority, so that no longer so, so emergency elections must be held. What gives a confusing provision on this amendment to the law is that it requires that the law define the holding of emergency elections but that the mandate to be given under these extraordinary elections is regular. When you talk about it and talk about it, then more and more people have to remember Andric's statements, the sentences he said – where logic ends, Bosnia and Herzegovina begins. So it's incomprehensible that you hold extraordinary elections and you get a regular term. What if according to this Electoral Law, the amendments, emergency elections are held so someone comes to mind in May 2016 to say and now the emergency circumstances are let's hold now extraordinary elections, and then emergency elections to early elections, so what do you think if we get to regular elections? So it wasn't taken care of. Here someone came from the assumption that emergency elections should be held because the emergency situation is in four cantons of the Federation of BiH, and not to say that if we accepted it, I mean us from the SNSD Club, if we accepted this amendment to the law that this is a defacto matter of transfer of jurisdiction. Because the snap elections are precisely prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia when emergency elections can be held, when they can be called and only in the jurisdiction of the RS president to disband the National Assembly and call emergency elections. Or in another situation like when late President Milan Jelić died in 2007, the same had to be held by the presidential election. So this is completely inconclusive, especially for the reason that, therefore, they're asking for an emergency, to define holding an emergency election, getting a regular term, which is impossible. If and for what there is a need, and for which there is a need to redefine, that is to change the Election Law, then, as someone has already mentioned, the merger of general and local choices all together to simply save on funds. That's not what anyone talked about or talked about, but colleague Magazinović said, so suggest, so we'll talk about it or think about it. But it is completely deplaced now at a time when less than two months remain when the Central Election 64 commission is scheduled to propose, to call regular elections, which has been said to take place in the first decade of May, so on the eve of regular elections, someone is asking for the election to be called. And that's why I have to say that it's total politics and pre-election marketing of certain parties. Maybe someone thought to wash their conscience out in public or in front of some people who are unhappy to say, here's what we suggested to hold an early election, but there's just no one to support it, we have no one to change the Electoral Act to make it happen. And just in the end, I'm going to say, as far as RS is concerned, and the situation in the RS is precisely because this is the opposition that requires the position, or SNSD to create both the conditions and the environment and the laws and everything, and they're just going to go to elections and allegedly take power, which is why you're going to be the opposition in the RS for a long time, so be convinced. And you have the capacity like you don't have then you would act on the principle of how SNSD and Milorad Dodik did in February 2006 when, as your authority and position to the SDS and the PDP, he took power out of your hands and he was an opposition, so he created a political ambience without emergency elections, without laws, without anything and took your power. That's why you, as you're capacitated, will remain the opposition for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20365	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20366	Thank you. I am pleased that the SNSD is not afraid of early elections, and therefore I expect you to support at the next session this law, so when you are so sure and convinced of your victory, it is more certain for you now than in October of the month. So I'm glad we can expect your support, which President Dodik promised after all, and it's the citizens who will decide who will be where and how it will be. As far as I'm concerned, speaking of this, I have to look back at the SDP discussions at the same time, I'll be very brief. Except that not all the official messengers of the Electoral Law are listed in one very confusing situation, a category of emergency elections is introduced where the mandate of the Authority is said to be four years, and Article 1.14. The election law is said to be held in October. So under this law, the mandate can't last four years, here's to holding an emergency election would take 4.5 years. If you have already worked and been serious in your intention, then you should have changed this Article 1 point 14 and deleted that mandatory election provision in the first week of October. So, all this tells me is that the SDP just surfaced something like that on paper and that this paper should be "plivadon" for these people who protest in Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20367	Thank you. Discussion, first deputy chairman, colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20368	My colleagues and fellow MPs. 65 Although I have heard a lot of counterarguments, therefore the acceptance of this Law today and the technical and political nature and debate that pointed to the possible motives of the motionor, which I agree with, I would not repeat any of it. Certainly we should legally define the Institute of Extraordinary Elections, but then I wonder why we didn't do it at the beginning of this term because we all knew together that we didn't have it in the law. So then we come up with what's motive, especially now that we don't have two months to call regular elections. On the other hand, it's already been talked about, so I won't repeat it, so this vague definition of the term of exceptional circumstances. In fact, they're exceptional compared to the condition before only in four cantons. Therefore, we could then conclude that we should only enable early elections to be called at levels where these exceptional circumstances require, and then again we come into collage with other levels since, for example, they are. from the canton, or county, they perform homes of the people at country level, etc., etc. So this is all about how this matter needs to be looked at in a much more serious way and exactly the Interresor Working Group is the place where all initiatives should be merged and this one and that it should finally shape a consistent and coherent proposal, and of course we should be so patient as to wait for regular elections to take place in the tenth month. Not to say that there are other things, like that. to ask the question of disbanding Parliament and calling for extraordinary elections, e.g. In the first year, he's calling. Because the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, for example, explicitly prohibits the disbanding of Parliament and calling for emergency elections in the first year of office. Does that mean that if we were to pass a law like this if he were to order the change of the entity's constitution, and then that further to that, does that mean that we could, by any state law, change the constitutions of one entity or another, etc., etc. Therefore, we are facing a crowd, so to speak, of possible issues that would arise from the possible adoption of a law like this, which we see today and in this debate that will not happen. So I only went out to explain my position in voting, so we wait for regular elections and then of course it will show up. And we see for these cantons where the exceptional circumstances are, they almost have no choice and they don't need it because they respect plenum democracy, so they can put governments together without a choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20369	Thank you. Dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20370	Mr. Chairman. I think it's good that we've opened this topic, and it's evident from the discussion of all the predecessors that we need to regulate this area legally, so we have the possibility of an emergency election. Especially interesting were these inspiring replicas of my collages. So, on behalf of the SDA Club, we support emergency procedures, we also support the principles of this law. And as I heard here today they have SDS proposals, they have proposals, Mr. Živković announced a SNSD proposal, maybe this will end in a way that some of these proposals may eventually be adopted. But what is evident, so we need a legally regulated opportunity to have extraordinary elections, especially because the time ahead is 66 days of unstable governments or short governments. That is why it is important for us to regulate it legally, and in this sense we support both the emergency procedure and we support the principles of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20371	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20372	Mr. Chairman, is that right, we're having an emergency hearing? But unfortunately, everyone was saying, yeah, okay. Well, here, I'll say that I think there are several reasons why we can't support this law either in an emergency or in a regular procedure. With full respect and the need for an important issue to be resolved in BiH, which is to define how to maintain re-, delayed or premature, or here, as emergency elections have been said. It's a matter of great importance, but first of all it has to go back to the fundamental principles. It is not possible by law to define what the Constitution has not defined. The BiH Constitution, therefore, did not define the way the BiH Constitution ended, the temporary termination of the mandate to the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, while in two ways clearly defined the way in which the House of People's term ended. The BiH Constitution has not defined the way, i.e. the termination of the BiH presidency in any way and not by chance. In all five previous meetings, the BiH presidency was an institution that was the first to be established and which functioned independently, nor for objective reasons for ending the mandate for individual members of the BiH presidency. What would happen if, by any chance, another option was given? Then we would enter a blockade of an important institution that is primarily out of the power of defence, from foreign affairs, from proposing budgets, from proposing the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. So how is it possible by law to define the termination of the term of office for these two institutions if it is not defined by the Constitution? Is that to be defined? It is my opinion that it absolutely needs to be defined, that it should be made clear in which cases and in which way the mandate of the elected legislative body ceases and which are, it must be clearly stated in the Constitution. Our competence concerns the Presidency, i.e. the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Discussing the draft electoral law, not defining this issue with the Constitution, that means, so it's against the constitution, it's impossible in such a way to define this problem by law. I propose that, at all levels, this issue be in the power of the Parliamentary Assembly, I find it absolutely unnecessary. The Law on Local Self-Government of Entitys should clearly define when the term of office ends with the lowest legislative body of local self-government and how the Assembly is elected, or the head of local self-government. The same problem, said distinguished counterpart Božo Ljubić, should also be defined by the entity's constitutions, when it comes to the legislative body or the president, or vice president of the entity. Otherwise we will get into problems that are a violation of the Constitution of those institutions. I was an MP when they were premature, when the OSCE rules in BiH were in force, when early elections were called for the National Assembly of the RS. Clearly defined in accordance with the Constitution, the OSCE has given its consent, the procedure has been implemented and there is no dilemma. So, I suggest what I think, so this law, this institution of emergency elections, I think it also, in a certain sense, brings us also, in terms of non-defining confusion, defining this term, to confusion with it. Is it possible to hold early elections in BiH? Well, you see, I won't repeat what my colleagues said, if we go from that, this is a needless story where we're wasting our time. BiH and this Parliamentary Assembly do not need 67 to spend this much time on this story. We need to finish today, knock him down, so we need to get him in the process, and we need to take him down immediately so he doesn't go into the regular procedure, because we're gonna keep talking about who's right who's wrong. We're wasting time, we're losing energy, we're explaining how capable we are. You see, different dreams each amount, let's say about the situation in RS- and so on. You know what it is, while you're like that we can act like a constitutional... that sometimes we just blink with one eyelash. It's impossible to have power like that. I'm sad you're not stronger to tell us where we're wrong. The only thing you know, you can just focus on how bad someone else is. You do not know how to tell RS citizens, nor BiH how you will seriously resolve the key issue in this country. Then you would be in a situation, or to change the relationship of power in this House, that now eight MPs from any political party approach you to make a majority. And when you talk about the opposition, you were an absolute position today. Today, by voting on the replacement of the Minister of Security, you were an absolute position. Not to take my time after I'm out. So I will vote against and the emergency procedure and I will vote against the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20373	I'm kidding. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20374	I thank the chairman. It was only now that I learned that the opposition should support the government, from Mr. Prodanović's discussion. The opposition should protect the minister at the Council of Ministers, to be against their shift. Mr. Prodanović, the job of the opposition is to destroy every government. That's one thing. The second thing, we are, this law is not good and will not get our support, but the Constitution of BiH does not say anywhere that the mandate of the House of Representatives cannot be shortened, that the mandate of members of the Presidency cannot be shortened. On the contrary, we have, the truth imposed, the Law on the selection of a member of the Vice-Presidentship, meaning someone whose term of office has been shortened or ceased for these or those reasons, and the SNSD MPs voted here to verify this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20375	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović, must. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20376	Well, you see, we didn't adopt today, we didn't put on the agenda of the Law that the SDS proposed for formal reasons, and they participated in making that decision, not just at today's session, but at a session before, two, three sessions about when they treated one similar proposal in the same way. Now, I'm sorry that we can't have two of the same laws on the agenda to compare them a little bit and talk about it. Because I think, say, the law of the SDS has a good 68 elements. Let's just say, in this law, it's acceptable for me, and I consider it a good solution, to abolish entity voting. Let's say that SDS proposal if added to this SDP proposal, I think it would be a good combination, because I only don't know how to deal with it at RS level. You have proposed a two-thirds majority, but without an entity vote, and here it is in line with the current Rules of Procedure. It would also be good to compare these two laws and maybe make some build-up, maybe do something together in that direction, when it comes to issues that have already been opened by some -- is it possible to hold elections at only one level of government at a four-year term, as you predict with this law? Is it possible to choose the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliament without holding elections in entities, and in the Federation and in cantons, because it is all connected. So, here, I'm really sorry that both laws aren't in the process at the same time and there's no business opportunity to combine members of both laws. Maybe even if the third SNSD suggested a solution. But, strangely enough, I am glad that it is clear that there is a consensus for the need of an early elections institute in BiH legislation. Well, here, and if this attempt doesn't work out, and I'd be extremely sorry, it's a good thing we've made it clear that we're all up to it, so maybe we're looking for some solution that's going to be acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20377	Thank you. Replica, colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20378	My replica refers to distinguished colleague Saša Magazinović and distinguished counterpart Aleksandra Pandurević. Therefore, it is possible to elect delegates in the House of Peoples of BiH without new elections in entity parliaments, i.e. the National Assembly and the House of the Federation of BiH in two ways. dkle, if anyone resigns, the next one will be filled in on the list of candidates. And another way is to implement procedures in accordance with the BiH Constitution and, therefore, as is planned even by these new amendments. When you speak to Miss Pandurević, since you think that the most, of all 62 of us together, and you know it twice as much, I have to tell you that I have a little longer parliamentary experience, and I will tell you – a member of the presidency in case of a change of members of the BiH presidency was not from the SNSD, he was from... Mr. Šarović was replaced by Mr. Paravac. Well, you're not going to tell me that SNSD suggested Paravac, even if he suggested someone else then, and we don't need to talk about the procedure. Why was that done? I'll tell you right away. We have bad ones, I mean, I usually think badly in any sense, that any way and I'm against any time and anywhere, therefore, imposed law, but it wasn't accidentally done. RS would not have an extremely significant representative in the BiH presidency. Due to vital national interest, due to all the issues I had previously done and the BiH presidency has never been blocked. And the interest of the RS is never to be. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20379	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić, discussion. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20380	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Here, colleagues from the SNSD have expressed the views of our political force, which is why we cannot support this law. I don't think it's an accident because the mass is in the last time of these laws that come in the last year, or the last 7, 8 months left to the election, probably to sort of reach out or make a populist appearance towards their voters. So I believe that this Law is not done in a very good way, by not even saying what the conditions are for emergency elections, and therefore this Law did not specify this matter, which means it leaves the individual at will again, or when anyone thinks that something is wrong that he can call emergency elections. It's unacceptable, here's the law I'm looking at which the SDS proposed, the SDS Law says that the Central Commission at least 150 days before the elections were announced, etc. Well, that's five months, and we've only got six left, so let's adopt now, until it's published in the Official Voice, we've got six months left. I really don't see the reasons why it's so urgent. But logically, the government will only withdraw when there is no solution to the problems. And it's ugly when we talk about the RS authorities that we have to discuss here in the BiH Parliament. Here we should talk about these things that are related to BiH, but when we mention it, we should say that at the level of BiH, the situation relative to last year has not been significantly moved, regardless of all the economic crisis that has come. And pensions are paid regularly, paid regularly to office payers, the same number of unemployed. Therefore, it is nothing special that the last 3.4 months should now insist on happening and early elections. I must say that the opposition, it is normal to fight for power and I fully understand that, but for a year the opposition has only been fighting for power. And now this would be very good if someone said, well, we don't know any further, so here we are giving an emergency election, come on, you come to power. Who wants that? No one's ever done that before. Although, I apologize, yes, there have been such situations when she gave up, there is no surrendering power except, it is correct when you don't know things and you can't do things, then you say – gentlemen, I don't want to go any further. Therefore, the government here has to simply show its strength, and the opposition would do well to say – you know we have a program to guarantee that we will hire so much, that we will increase pensions, have to say where the funds will be provided, not from the IMF, but from, I don't know, other institutions, organisations, etc. So they have to have programs to convince the citizens. It's not enough just here to tell me that this, where are the investment programs, what are the companies and systems that are going to drag into these spaces, who is it that managed to establish those contacts? So I think it's funny to talk about things like that. And another suggestion of mine. Let's not have problems with the National Assembly, let's leave some MPs in the National Assembly there to resolve, let's not transfer them here to BiH level, especially when it comes to individual provisions of members who are directly transferring, are directly in conflict with the transfer of ownership to BiH level. Here, I think, for these reasons, we should take this down and, preferably, ask all our colleagues that by the end of the election, the rest is very little, we don't go with bill proposals that objectively don't have a chance to pass. And the laws that need to, which will improve the state of BiH, improve employment, reduce the time period of obtaining permits, etc., all that, let's do this, let's not do this populist thing, I think the people recognize it too, and it won't pass here in Parliament. Thank you very much. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20381	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20382	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to pray, here, to ease these variations of polemics that are useless. And I have to say, we're getting tired, we're no use for it. So we have a agenda today very large, very important, here is the Public Procurement Act. The MPs... to think of the general interest of what's written here would then base their activities on such laws and on a series of other laws that are proposed, and not to run polemics that are really useless and that represent one chain, this one pulls this one, that one, and so we will welcome six, seven hours, and here is now half five. So please, here, please, let's cut these polemics down a little bit and not all of us should come to terms. We all know who we can do, if we put it on some cantar, then we'd see that this cantar is very weak,...to express itself. But I'm really listening, but I don't know what the round is, and these MPs against these, and they're against, and it's no use, and it's not, it's no use to the election campaign. Gentlemen, it doesn't use an election campaign, it reduces the value. So, please, let's focus on the agenda. Thank you. And to tell Laza, I was also proposed by the SNSD for a member of the presidency, I had support all the way from the SDA, but I quit. I didn't mean to, I left it to Mr. Paravac. You can see there are people who don't fight for chairs all the time. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20383	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20384	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here, at first I welcome all of what Professor Kunić said, but we could avoid these empty discussions very simply if we didn't get empty proposals in the procedure. Now, look, when someone delivers you a proposal that's unsuspecting and presents it as some revolutionary discovery, if you don't tell him what his shortcomings are, you're out of support. Here we have heard a whole series of disadvantages of this proposal, which points to one fact that this is a proposal that was made on the way back, the application and that it was designed not to pass. And that's not the first proposal. I will remind you that two, three months ago, I think, we formed an Interresor Working Group for amendments to electoral legislation, and you may not know, you may not have heard, this Interresor Working Group has suspended its work because the conditions in which political entities have begun to race who will skate the Interresor Working Group with some proposal have become simply impossible for the work of the Interresor Working Group, and here you are, suggest what anyone thinks should. And if it's not a problem in the Electoral Law, although technically it can be repaired, even in the election schedule, the best indicator is this hall. I'm looking at first row, second row, third row, fourth half, in just these 3.5 years, we've all been in power and we haven't been celebrated, none of us, no matter how much 71 people experience. I said up to half, I didn't say, uh, everything. We know who wasn't a part of it, and they know, too, the public. So, you don't need this one. Whoever thinks that by calling the election 15 days before the set deadline will have some spectacular effect in an ugly delusion, so there's no need, we're just wasting our time on this. I'm not sure the regular election, which is planned this year, is going to change something. We live in a state, I've said it a few times now, I may never have been here in Parliament, which has a structural error, and there is no political entity that has not been celebrated or not celebrated, being a participant of the government on this..., there is no such one. We don't have any rules. With us, the opposition proposes to shift ministers and the position supports it. It's not, anywhere, elemental, uh, some kind of democratic standard. So, with us, the parliamentary majority are being created, so what does that have to do with the elections, then they're being created from the agenda point to the agenda point. We have a situation where the Council of Ministers' proposals collapses the position and some support the opposition, which is once again the paradox of its kind. So whatever the composition, until we change some elemental stuff. So, uh, if I'm not saying that this proposal has problems with the Constitution, I think that Mr. Prodanović talked about it the most, so it's unsustainable from the aspect of the current BiH Constitution. If it was sincere to ask for the opportunity to discuss the early, extraordinary, now I don't know, I have to say what the difference is, there were a lot of reasons already at the beginning of this term. Well, we haven't had the Council of Ministers in over 1.5 years. Wasn't that the reason for us to discuss the election? It can't be a better reason, but we didn't do it. In that the SDP colleagues don't mind again, but we have to mention it, be careful, we, you, the Federation government, have formed completely past the election results and past the Constitution. Maybe it's a good solution to invite a high representative now, so he can call the election, what we need to do with the amendments to the law. Well, he declares power without the election results and past the Constitution, he can do it. So, let's turn it back on now, let him solve the problems. We are constantly talking about the failures of the minister of this, the minister of that, not to mention this authority, very important in BiH, which is not responsible for anything. So, who's not responsible for anything, but that's when she gets a little involved, so now here's what they say impartially, uh, let's let everyone take advantage of it, so I don't see us wasting this much energy in this situation. And I agree in this sense, let's even this little law that we have to try to bring into some normal atmosphere. And we could have done that by now, if we hadn't spent a lot of time in this, here's the charges of who's better, who's worse. The people will, in the elections, say what they think, as they've said so far, no matter how many races I've had and said we're the only ones guaranteed victory in the election. So that, by that, we'll see when the election is called, and let's try to at least a little bit more rationally spend this time that we have left, if we could at least make up for this, which we missed these 3.5 years, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20385	Thank you. Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20386	Thank you. Replica, a respected colleague of Lozančić, as well as anyone who spoke before about the formation of power and the Electoral Law. Let me remind you, for all of us, that article 9.12. BiH's electoral law says -- 30 days after the official election results are announced, 72 days after that, the canton congregations should be convened or county parliaments and elected delegates or envoys to the House of Peoples. On the day of the formation of the Federation government in the 17-Hrvat House of Peoples, 12 Hrvat were elected. So these four and a few months were chosen not 17 Hrvat in the House of Peoples, but 12 Hrvat. The express responsibility of violating the election law, Article 9.12.b, was at the HDZ of BiH because it had a majority in canton or county parliaments, where delegates or envoys should be elected to the House of the Federation. So, on the day, and in the Federation Constitution, it says that 1/3 of the elected presidents in the House of Peoples are elected, they can propose the election of the president of the Federation. So, of the 12 chosen at that moment 1/3 five gentlemen, these are the exact data with which you persistently, I don't know and the SNSD I see joined in that, so one thing that's clear. For last election, the high representative's intervention was not at all, but only said he was acting under the Election Law, that the HDZ BiH violated the BiH Election Law and that... I mean, we should once put an end to all this stuff that we were talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20387	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20388	Well, look, dear colleague Lijanović, your mathematics is well known to me. When they asked one of you whose company your company owned, then one of you said, four of us has brothers, so half of us have a firm. So I'm not surprised that you came from 17 that 5 is one-third and I don't think of discussing it. The point is that the government is formed unconstitutional. I just said that when the government doesn't form, the election should be called in a timely manner. That's what I was talking about. So it's a constitutional way of responding to not establishing authorities after the election. However, we had a imposed solution here, we had an annulment, a suspension of the Central Election Commission's decision, the only authority in charge of implementing the elections, the suspension of its decision, not HDZ's decision, so don't forget that the government could be established unconstitutional. Since this is so, in order not to be bothered about the amendments to the law, it is necessary to call on the same again, that if the law is to be passed, it will be decided to call the election tomorrow immediately. So, uh, it certainly doesn't matter to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20389	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20390	... the question, uh, so today was on stage, by the definitions of some colleagues here, first within the political Bosniak reckoning, so it seems that it was within Serbian, so is this now, as you usually Franjičević about the Bosniaks, whether this is a Croatian political reckoning or whether this is a Lijanović, Franjičević, Lozančić, etc.?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20391	Thank you. Dear counterpart Mato Franjičević will now answer that question probably. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20392	God Bog, colleague Belkić, it's about inside the Croatian reckoning. If it's a reckoning at all, I think it's some kind of debate that seeks to be as much overkill between people who have been elected by the votes of Croatian voters, and I pretend that me and my colleague Loznačić are you, and people who have bought votes and have come to positions based on it, and then used those positions to be the exponents of the great policy. In this case, it cannot be said, of course, about the inside of the Croatian account, but about the broader context of the Bosnian-Herzegovic relations between political opportunities and troubles.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20393	Thank you. Comrade Beriz Belkić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20394	So, you guys should get right now. The first item of the agenda was the reckoning between those who wanted to replace the minister and those who did not want to, and not within the political Bosniak account, as you called it. Now we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20395	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20396	I thank the chairman. Well, since I no longer have the right to a replica, and a great lie has been expressed here, said Mr. Magazinović, referring to the SDS bill's proposal, as it abolishes the entity's vote. You see, Mr. Magazinović, this Law does not remove entity voting, because it cannot be abolished, it is defined in the Constitution, but is even strengthened and it is strengthened by a two-thirds majority, so it is said that the House of Representatives is disbanded by a two-thirds majority of those present in the vote. Article 10(1) The BiH Constitution, counterpart Magazinović, says the BiH Constitution is changing in a two-thirds majority of those present and voting. So this House couldn't disband the SDS, not the SNSD, but just us together. I am also sorry that you saw one fly-over from a ruling party in the National Assembly that may not know the Constitution of BiH, because the man deals daily with some other problems and does not read it, but it is unacceptable that one MP in the BiH Parliament obviously did not read the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20397	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, replica. And your colleague Saša, vi're all this, you have authority over someone else, you don't even have a discussion, and you're done. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20398	It is not the subject of this debate, so the SDS Election Law proposal, which, I must say right away, is much more deficient and flawed than this one, and I will talk about it at the next session. But dear colleague Pandurević, let me just tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20399	To ask her to wait, to listen to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20400	She's gone, but it doesn't matter, but I have to say... So, here it is from remarkable, this proposal gives the opportunity to disband the predstavnički, the SDS proposal, and thank the distinguished colleague Saša Magazinović for respecting the Constitution of BiH, giving the possibility to disband the House of Representatives hypothetically, without any vote of MPs elected in the area of election units in the RS, without any vote, or with one vote, so with three electoral units. Look, if we're interpreting what's written in Dayton like this, why isn't it written a way of disbanding, then it's quite clear now why. And secondly, their request for an emergency procedure has been disastrously pointing to a complete one story that they are constantly telling about fighting for the interests of the Serb people and the RS, and here they are taking away the possibility, they could say when they say a way of disbanding which includes the deployment of 2/3 delegates, to at least 2/3 delegates, from one entity or a minimum 1/3 from the constituency. So that's the key question, if we give the option 2/3, it's a completely hypothetical question that has nothing to do with it and that can completely marginalize the way this House works, to bring it into this situation. So it is impossible in this way to define this overall balance that would mean the minimum representation of votes, positive votes, votes for the Federation and the RS, would create stability... a decision. I am pleased to discuss this, and I will say one detail, that there are people who were also members of the BiH presidency and presidents of the Federation, there are those who know the constitutional right well, but I cannot believe this way of interpreting. I've had a chance with more distinguished colleagues, not to mention the name, to work around this Electoral Law for nearly 30 days where there were key words about the blockade of the functioning of the institutions. All of them, therefore, were brilliant members of the Central Election Commission, legal experts and others, everywhere it was concluded that this issue, which deals with constitutional issues and constitutional matter, was necessary to define these issues by way of an end of the term of office or by disbanding the legislative body or the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20401	Thank you. Replica, a colleague of Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20402	Thank you. Let me just say briefly about the conflict between Croatian, Bosniak or Serbian. So this is a conflict between HDZ and the People's Party's policy by working for a better one. Gentlemen of the HDZ after this clear explanation of the Electoral Law, Article 9.12.b) unfortunately there is nothing else. Well, I'm not going down to that level personally, not to point out something that didn't go too high at all. If we had commented on this Law, I would have followed 75, but so low some blows, I don't want to go down to that level. I thank them for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20403	Let me say something about it. Dear fellow, if we're counting on who's best here, I'd like to be the best, not to say that I am, if we're going to count on who's the worst, let's get ahead of it, so in the end when you're all done and I'll take the discussion and say something about it. And everyone said we should finish, so we'll tell each other everything in five minutes, so we told each other everything about it. Then some who have no more replicas, no more speeches, just get angry and go out there, because now it's their time for television, etc., etc. So much for respecting each other and for how much we can listen to each other when the arguments are on our side, but to listen when those arguments are not on our side. Finally, a colleague of Prodanović told the truth that we all probably know well, which is that this is the matter of the Constitution and that it is impossible, however we interpret the elastic right, to perform out of the Constitution the possibility of both the Presidency and the House of Representatives disbanding. If you want to talk about it seriously then let's sit on the Constitutional Commission. Those who spoke most, I did not hear their request to put the subject, not to have amendments to the Constitution, but to put the topic as a commission, which part and member should be changed in order to allow only the introduction of a sentence – in case or the presidency can be disbanded and the House of Representatives, which will be regulated by law. Dot. And it should be put in the Constitution. And you don't want to talk about it, and you want all the other variations to be here... without talking about it. You want to talk about the election? What is wrong with the task of our established Interresor Working Group to continue to work and in the shortest time, until half of April, submits to the homes a report on the work, because I have not seen a report on the work, I have seen a report on labour, and a harmonised proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, if anything can be agreed on, even if one member is to improve this Election Law before the elections, whether we want to or not. Well, is everyone happy with the vote, the public voting, transparency, carrying boxes, spare tickets and everything we don't say, and stealing is up to the sky. And we're all okay with that. It's just a problem with the next election. And, take the election, watch some fairy tale carrying a box, it's more important than talking about your political program in the village. Is that clear, is that clear to everyone? That there is no political programme and there is no political party and there is no need to go to the voters, because it is necessary to find some strong guys who will guard the box and eventually when polling stations are closed to print who won those elections. Can't you say that? What's up, guys? What's the problem? You cannot say that this is the situation in BiH, but we are talking about the OSCE and other international institutions and everything here is great. That there are transparent elections here, that it's a democratic process. You want us to improve that? You want us to put up cameras because we've all been to different countries where we've seen this transparent process work? Well, in one of Russia, there's cameras in one of the Azerbaijani polling stations. We can't put that on, can we? Are we entering the transparency of business and the privacy of the person who votes? What are we talking about? _________(?) Expensive. Expensive. It's expensive for a lot of other colleagues. I wanted to say we have two things to do. If you want the Constitutional Commission, seriously talk, put the subject of changing the Constitution 76 for the election. If you want the Interressor Working Group to do something by half of April, you'll adopt the conclusion in which this is done. If you want the election to be transparent and democratic, work harder on the election process itself, and leave the story behind for the tides, for television shows and for other places because we are all fed up with it. Thank you. Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20405	Well, I had to take this form because I shot those two replicas, and I wouldn't want any misunderstandings between me and my colleague Lijanović. I didn't, I didn't, I may have been clumsy and expressed, I didn't mean to say that you personally came to this position by buying votes, but I wanted to say, and I'm going to say this again, that the party from which you are coming and you, in some ways you represent, are being very seriously accused of these actions, that there are numerous investigative actions and judicial proceedings that are the result of these activities, at least according to the statements of quite relevant witnesses, which is a shame for the BiH parliamentary democracy system and for BiH itself. Shame on all those who, if true, have allowed it to be true and those who are guilty this long to remain intact. That's one thing. The second thing, in order for us not to be convinced of who is right when it comes to installing the President of the Federation and the Government of the Federation in an unconstitutional and illegal manner, I will only tell you that the only body that is required by the legal system of this country to observe the legality of the electoral process is the Central Election Commission, which has decided that the Federation government has been chosen against the provisions of the Election Law. And this way, of course, I interrupt every further controversy with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20406	Thank you. You want some? Ain't nobody, is they? Okay, no one's gonna answer that again. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 62nd House session, held on 23.01. At that time, a conclusion was adopted, which tasked the Financial and Budget Commission with holding a public debate on the draft law. Public sleep was held on 05.02. The committee responsible delivered the report 11/03. 25 amendments have been adopted that form an integral part of the text. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20408	Thank you, Chairman. 77 Where am I, where are you so far in the previous agenda, so I listened as much as I could. Here, I have to say a few things, since as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, here we are, I can say freely, very close to a very important law, to me one of the most important since I've been an MP here in these benches. What I have to say is, I have to look back, so that's when we had that conclusion here, where some MPs didn't support the initiative to have a public debate. But here, I see they did, so they came to us with the right thing to do. And we did make believe the very right thing. They came here in the room of people with very, very quality amendments, suggestions, discussions, everything was talked about. It's been a long time, so the public debate has been going on, and I think, in any case, it's been bearing fruit. I need to look back at all the accusations we've had and what we've got in the media these days. We're still being accused by NGOs of not doing our job. However, all that was good, so here and now, so over 70 amendments we had, we adopted 25. It was perfectly natural that, with SIGMA and the European Commission, we could not accept all amendments. But all that was useful means that it was changing the law in the context of a better one that was accepted, and of course it was accepted by the Finance and Budget Commission. And here, today we have this bill of law with the amendments embedded in the text itself. So I definitely think we did a big job, it wasn't that simple. The last Commission we had for a very long time, probably the President of the Commission is going to say something about it, so we've been sitting for a very, very long time, we've spoken about each amendment, we've each read about each and every one of us. And that's good. I think it's sad when some ad hoc political parties take over some of the NGO's amendments and bring them as their proposals. In the context that definitely, what I said, they don't need NGOs to dictate the pace of life in this country, they should do every job they do, right? I think I repeat again that we did our job. There would be nothing wrong with respect to all the amendments and the non-governmental sectors, I have to repeat that, but the amendments of the NGO sector primarily referred to joint institutions, entity institutions, cantons, and even municipalities, and that other context was ignored where practically those public procurements that life means in BiH and many other people are not covered. So the NGO was looking at it from one angle. I think that this public debate is what we've seen comprehensively and that we've done a very good thing, that we have proposals now, here I see that they've been adopted, so some of these amendments that have been proposed by some NGOs, that have probably come to all of you on e-mails as well as I have. And what was acceptable was, what wasn't, it wasn't, and I'm expressing one great pleasure with a successful job called the Public Procurement Bill, with everything we've had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20409	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I may be terribly sorry or terribly glad about all this, but no amendment has been submitted, no one has the right to defend their amendment, we have nothing more to discuss in another reading than to talk about how pleased we are and how sorry we are. If you really need to say it in the order you signed up, I won't take anyone's word away, but according to the Rules of Procedure, I warn everyone in advance that no amendment has anyone to defend. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20410	I was expecting, Mr. President, to report to the chairman of the Commission. That's why I signed up. If he checked in, I wouldn't do it. I just wanted to explain that there was a public debate, that there were 125 people present in the public debate from all segments of society, from all over BiH, that it was very quality, that certain amendments were adopted that some political parties had accepted. At the Commission on Budgets and Finance in the debate, which lasted several hours, we discussed one amendment at a time and managed to adopt some 25 amendments. No amendments for which we did not receive the consent of the Public Procurement Agency, which previously agreed with the SIGMA Swedish organisation, were accepted. Me, and us SNSD weren't at all burdened, we didn't have any of our amendments. We purposely wanted, since it was a year and a half, we purposely wanted to respect the agency's views and respect SIGMA's views. For these reasons, I have also come forward and I expect that this Law, which I consider to be well done, is good quality, certainly some shortcomings that will probably need to be changed quickly, that in some way today MPs accept this. This would be one step forward towards reducing and corruption, towards improving overall conditions faster, more efficient, more quality public procurement. Here's what would...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20411	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20412	So when it comes to the bill itself and what's contained in it, I want to give an assessment of the law itself and say that I would really be incorrect if I said that there is no improvement in it. They're there and they're mostly technical. And what he would agree with his colleague Tomić, that he would need to change this law very quickly. So that's something I'd agree with, but I can't agree with, so it's a quality job done from the point of view of the needs of the real sector. It seems more appreciated to me what the EU and various other agencies are asking for from the field, and very little is done by what the real sector is asking for. So here is the most unsatisfactory real sector. And speaking of this, let me say something about NGOs, to express my position and opinion on NGOs. I think there's a small number of NGOs in BiH. I recognize those that are funded from membership fees, etc., but very few are organizations that are funded from membership fees. And of course, I welcome those who are fighting for standing rights in their NGOs. ... issues, mostly they're mostly government organizations or they're close to the authorities. So I'm not going to talk about NGOs right now, back to this law, not to stray from the law itself. Therefore, more respected are the requirements of foreign experts, than this is an important real sector that says that only a legal solution is not transparent enough, that only a legal solution is not competitive, that only a legal solution will not provide a reduction of corruption that is present in 95% of the cases in which public procurement is concerned. So most of corruption and crime are related to real procurement. After all, in Serbia, the launch of crime and corruption has just started since the amendments, i.e. the adoption of a law relating to public procurement. 79 Here is a very important issue of monitoring everything that happens after the procedure, the tender, or after public procurement. The question is, who is objectively controlling whether everything that is agreed on by works, whether it is services, whether it is goods, controlled, whether it is just as delivered as it was called in the tender itself. That kind of control is objectively not available. There's no responsibility. I am in favour of giving far greater powers and much greater responsibility for those who will monitor the realisation of public procurement. I can also give you examples of how this happens in practice. Well, you have a situation where, let's say in the tender terms, there's no advance, say, and there's a payment within 30 days. The company that came through immediately got an advance, which means it wasn't done at all. There's... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it is, but there's no punishment for violations. Look at the punishments we predicted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20416	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20417	Dear Chairman, I ask you to encourage your colleagues to think that this is not the first phase and that we are talking about principles, that this is a phase when we talk about amendments, that we know that no single amendment to the House of Representatives has been renewed, and that it talks on the subject of general law, and then of conflict of interest, or so on. NGOs, we've seen that NGOs in this law have decided to go through the SBB, not through who. So this phase has served to change things by amendments. My question is colleagues, then why did he not act to send all these shortcomings, which he was now talking about, to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, which is to correct this Law. Stories that now, colleague Bojić, you tell have no purpose. It's a story for a story, and it's not about fixing the law,... always in action. Now anyone can say anything. And only once we have the option and that's the deadline when the amendments are submitted, only then do you have the opportunity to change things. And I'm asking you to warn everyone that it's an amendment phase and there's no point in this.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20418	Thank you. A fellow respected Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20419	I wouldn't have replicated it if I hadn't been mentioned. So, as far as we're concerned, whether or not we're going to uphold the law or not, we can make a statement about it. And I've given an explanation why we won't support this law. So we're the opposition here, but at the same time I'm telling you that this isn't enough change that's been made to get results under the Public Procurement Act. 81 What we are going to propose, we are going to propose a whole law that, first of all, when we propose it, will have a comparative analysis that will be done based on what we have in the environment, resulting in the fight against crime and corruption. Of course, this type of comparative analysis should also be made in the conduct of this Law. And I think it would be very useful, especially when we take the experience of Serbia and Croatia. Because just about everything that's happened, when it comes to crime and corruption in these two neighbouring countries, it could have worked very well for the adoption of this bill itself. I know we don't have the capacity to make sure our proposals pass, but it will be. Here's Dušanka, we're waiting for an opportunity, when there's a chance we'll change all three of these laws that will provide conditions for public procurement to be what this society needs. And I hope you only agree on one thing, that the source of crime and corruption in public procurement is in public procurement. Well, it can't happen that someone divides the supply into 300 parts, 380 parts, and it's not crime and corruption. Well, you can see that with intent he shares that he can ensure the conduct of such a procedure. So, it's obvious. Therefore, there are clear indications that this issue is a matter of public procurement burdened with crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20420	Thank you. Dear fellow Saša Bursać replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20421	Oh, I really have to rephrase my colleague Bojić. I've known you for years, and I know that you've never been a hypocrite, but that your representative doesn't once come and show up on any committee, not at a public hearing, not anywhere, and that you know everything about this law, it's completely pointless to me, it's completely pointless. And this is the most complex law, the most comprehensive of all laws we've ever passed. And that's what we discussed and I didn't want to, so that means saying it because it's... So it would be fair and correct at least if your representative, when you make those famous laws if he told you at least it was happening on that committee, he won't even tell you that, maybe he doesn't even know that today's agenda is this part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20422	Thank you. There is, there is, a fellow Bojić has another replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20423	So, I wasn't interested in whether our representative was, ask him, so I wasn't interested in it, I was closely looking at this issue the way we look at it in the party and make sure that the proposal for a solution that we're going to offer from the party is qualified. About our representative, you can discuss with him whether he was, wasn't, what he was doing, etc., but I'm telling you that this legal solution isn't good enough. I didn't say it wasn't right, there's movement, there's good things, there's good things, I don't want to say that there's no good things in technical terms, and I don't want no respect for the fact that more things here are respected by foreign experts than by the domestic, domestic real sector. And I followed very closely what the real sector was looking for in this area. That's what I've been talking about, so that's the essence of 82 of my discussion that no one dictates to me, but I speak as a folk MP. So that's my opinion and my position, and no, I'm not defending anyone, so he was from the SDS, maybe he's wrong at all, and it's not something I need to discuss and take care of. After all, it's no problem for us to get along, so don't worry, we'll get along very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20424	Thank you. Here it is, the reply to the replica, dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20425	Oh, I really have to do it one more time. Here I am to tell you, Mr. Bojić, when he wasn't your representative here. Here about where Mr. Jurišić was sitting was a man from Prnjavor who said he was in charge of public procurement of Prnjavor Municipality. Prnjavor opština is held by SDS, one of the loudst SDS loves is the head of Prnjavor Municipality when it is to spit on SNSD specifically. And this man was the first to stand up in public debate and say that the law is excellent and that with 55 members raised, 127 is an extraordinary shift. Here are the people who sat here with me then. And please don't, so you'll be making some new ones now, you should have at least your man here to say, "Listen, they were ours from the SDS, and they said the Law is good, the Law is moving, the Law is great, it's covered everything that hasn't been covered so far, you know. I definitely don't want to tell you anything about something bad right now, but please, it means that it's a difficult problem, as ours is, as we come to the law here, a huge effort has been made and there's a huge shift. And this is one of the European laws and that must be, if we want to go forward, it has to be, and we have to do it with foreigners, it's done with SIGMA, which is from the Swedish organization, which is one of the world's leading in this matter. This, on the one hand, is in line with European directives. You will now make a law that will ignore European directives and that will say those from Sweden have no idea. So, please don't, the law in the amendment phase got, in my opinion, another very good dimension, and it was also good in the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20426	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20427	Well, I don't think it's correct, despite the warnings and on your part, certain colleagues and colleagues that we act like it's not happening, I mean, like we don't have a Rules of Procedure, like we don't know what we're working on today, etc. I just want to react to how this is done is zero. Look, um, I'm not too happy with all the solutions in this law, so I'm not too happy. I have invested 44 amendments and I have expressed my view of the Law in the debate on principles, and in the amendment phase, and believe me, not half of the amendments have been accepted. And I'm not too happy that not all the amendments have been accepted, because I've made an effort to write 44 amendments, but I am aware of one fact that this is a legal solution with these adopted amendments, not just mine, so not only are my amendments adopted, 25 amendments adopted, is a much better solution than the existing law. And that's what it is, so people at the Public Procurement Agency worked ten times more than I've put into the effort, uh, and many others who've been involved in 83 consultations, making draft laws, we've had a public debate. I am sorry that the requirements of the real sector were no longer respected, but I accept the reasons that we should also take care of the State aid law that must be part of this common system, which must be in line with European directives, means no matter how much we would like some different solutions. So here I am because I have not renewed any amendments, and I have not renewed because I have concluded that there is not enough political will to accept these amendments, and I am pleased with the fact that the number of amendments that have been accepted has been accepted. I think the bill of law is much better than the applicable law. And I only invite all my colleagues and colleagues to support this better solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20428	My colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be appropriate to give a little break so we can all calm down a little bit. I'm running out of strength because I see how I react. I'd hate to say something to someone here that's inappropriate, so here's why I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I hope you've taken this time to freshen up and get back to work. I've freshened up and there's every chance we'll have a follow-up session. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, discussed. You know we're on second reading, no proposed amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20430	I'll be very observant, otherwise I wouldn't even know, if I wanted to discuss it the way the predecessors discussed it, I'd be factographically clear, making sure that this is another reading and I won't repeat it, I didn't refer to any of the amendments that were rejected today. I will just point out that after the Law on Public Procurement came to the Council of Ministers already at that stage a good part of the proposals that are constantly being repeated, so here is today the dissatisfaction that some of these amendments are not respected. I must say that Minister Osmić sent proposals from NGOs and some of them were then adopted, and as such the law came, complete with the work of these proposals came into parliamentary procedure. After the debate and after the first reading in the amendment phase, the same amendments appeared again, and some of us also referred to the amendments that we received from just the ones most interested in the quality Public Procurement Act, which are businessmen. I specifically had an amendment to the economy of the Zanic-Doboj Canton, or Pupnica. I have made efforts to adapt these amendments in a way that they are exactly acceptable to everyone here, and that they comply with the European directives, i.e. the standards requested by SIGMA, or proposed. In this regard, a good part of these amendments, like other colleagues, is adopted and we today have a law that is certainly better than the law we have today. That the law should not be ideal, that this is the last law on public procurement that we have here, and it certainly is not, so surely this law is not eternal and it will in some period, when it is a different structure of this Parliament, and when it is different climate policy, it will surely experience some changes. And that's why you don't have to be angry with those who say why the law is gone anymore, it's no longer 84 changed, why no more amendments have been adopted. My answer is that this was the maximum that could be arranged at this point. I believe that the alternatives to this proposal should not be, this proposal with the amendments adopted, because the alternative is actually the staying of the old law. And I appeal to all those who have participated in any stage in the making of this Law, how those who have proposed to give up their criticism and attacks and to finally adopt this Law, and we will see how it will prove itself, and then we will make some changes and complements in some future period. And here, I would now ask you all who here have the right to vote in favour of this Law along with the amendments adopted that it goes further into the procedure of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20431	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20432	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I'm going to say in front of the Alliance for a Better Future Club that we're not going to support this law because we don't think they're respected through the amendment form, literally not one initiative, a real sector proposal, an employers' association, so if you want the NGO sector. We held a calm conscience, we held a public debate of parliament which clearly showed at that time that there was some consensus that some ideas and suggestions from the real sector would be accepted. Of course what happened, it is clear that there is no political will and desire to adopt these things, and such a political finding is that there is no way that the re-investment of the real sector's amendments could get the green light. And in that sense, I won't comment on whether the law is a good law, whether the law is bad, I'm sad that the fate of this law is being tailored to strangers, which means that we have no capacity to decide and make our own solutions, so that the Commission's adoption or refusal of the law mainly referred to the relationship with SIGMA and what SIGMA said is a sacred letter, so that we couldn't change anything. Of course, it wasn't exactly what it looks like tonight on the Budget and Finance Commission. At one point, it could not have passed on to the Commission this Law with adopted amendments because it became a problem to appeal in these two new offices in Mostar and Banja Luka and there were very dissonant tones, consultation, so that one vote which was very questionable and again, it was only for your information again, implemented, and the SBB was constructive again and helped to make it all go away. So, the SBB won't accept this Act, maybe it's something better than it used to be, technically it's kind of neat, but basically nothing's changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20433	Thank you. Dear colleague Ante Domazet. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20434	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I appreciate the situation we're in, but I'd have to react and simply make some views on some of the claims that have been made here that we have practically nothing new, but that it's technical improvements, if there's improvements in that sphere too. I am deeply convinced that this amendment law is a major improvement in public procurement and that it puts the business sector in a more favourable position. The esteemed representative, Mr. Bojić, says – so as soon as you see them being divided into lotes, it means corruption. Well, how do you intend to allow access to small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement if you don't want to split into lotes? If you need to reconstruct ArcelorMittal or Sugar in Bijeljina that doesn't work, I know, is it, how a small company will appear on that project. It's a big project for her, but when you divide it into lotes and you say - electroinstallations, then a small company can show up. So understand whether something is misunderstood or, I don't know, you want to convince us that it's impossible, but dividing into lots is of interest to the business sector, the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises to facilitate their access to public procurement. So what I'm saying is that we have twenty improvements here that concern the real sector right now. A public procurement plan is published on the contract authority's website, all competitive requirements are published, there are no, other than 6 000, public procurement procedures for natural and legal monopolies. The conflict of interest has been resolved in accordance with EU directives. There are framework agreements. The negotiation procedure must also be carried out with the Agency’s check-out, the Agency’s application for procurement. Technical consultations shall be carried out, e.g. The company can give some, or even small, suggestions to the contracting authority to improve technical solutions, because contract authorities often do not know what to get, are not technically competent, and many other things. Let's say for the record, you don't have to give original documentation until you get a job, only when you get a job then you go with the original paperwork or there's no guarantee for jobs that are under 100,000. Well, those are improvements for the real sector. I don't know how you can call it technical improvements, so it's essential, of course they have their own form, is it? I mean, so we have one law that, first of all, went to the business sector. Secondly, he put in a much more responsible position of the contracting authority, which means that he created conditions for transparent public procurement, for more technically correct public procurement, for faster implementation of the public procurement process, for more efficient use of public money and especially for reporting on the realisation of jobs. So we have one law that provides a good regulatory framework. But now the next stage is crucial and it's a question of implementation of that law. And, of course, in that sphere, we have a lot of work to do and let us focus on adopting the law, creating new frameworks for its application and trying to monitor its effects. That way we can make some progress. Another focus on co-operation with the civil sector. I highly appreciate the contribution of the civil sector in this area, they've been doing a lot of work for years and being recorded with their constant progress in this area. However, I have a feeling that we are going to meet their demands that they become increasingly demanding. Of course, that's good, the scales are rising, the level of standards, but on their side, both marketing and dramaturgy are taking in intensity. Last summer, when we made those changes, two changes, then the damage to corruption in public procurement was 800 million, around New Year was a billion, now it's a billion and two hundredths, so if we continue this progress practically everything that is done in the public procurement process will be corruption. Let's find some measure here. 86 So I think we have a good law and that we should really adopt it by making efforts really in its proper implementation and monitoring and monitoring of the effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20435	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20436	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've reported myself now for the reason that I've had my time with my colleague, Domazet, about this law. I'm sorry that I haven't, I've really been prevented for a certain period and I haven't made amendments and I agree with the president that amendments should be made so I can defend them and report for discussion, but let me say a few things that, in my opinion, are very important. All of this is what counterpart Domazet said, guaranteed transparency, so a better public sector position, public business control, etc., which created some conditions for more effective application of the Law, then there are other elements that really represent one step in relation to the previous law, there is no dilemma there and no one disputes it. The law went into one width, into one decry, which is good for us, but the law was done, as Mr. Bojić said, by reputation, under the great influence of European advisers. I have to tell you that my experiences, I have participated in a lot of capital, system laws in BiH, starting with the Election Law, Rules of Procedure of the present, etc., I have played a very active role in this regard, I have to say that all the laws that are, let's say, the criminal laws, or some other ones that have been done based on co-operation with them are bad. I have experience in both RS and here. So, what's the bad thing? The law must adapt to the circumstances and relationships of the environment in which it should operate, and I think that we dropped it out of hand and almost all of the system laws are bringing us, or too much influence is on the side, which is wrong. It must be an expression of the will of the environment in which it should be applied, and then we will, therefore, protect authentic interests and regulate authentic relations. What's left, I won't be long, what's left in your presentation? What mechanisms were created to prevent fraud and corruption? So that's an essential question for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20437	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20438	There's no more fundamental question than that. Therefore, the basic objective was to prevent corruption and fraud by this Law, or other legal regulations. We agreed then and you agreed with me that you would give the initiative, so you who worked in the Commission, all the honours of the Commission worked very hard, I do give a great recognition in this respect, but this fact is missing. Therefore, why the Criminal Law has not been amended, that is, why no special criminal offences are provided, classification or differentiation has been carried out and that this is provided for by law. Otherwise, there will be no consequences for those who continue to abuse the provisions of this Law. So that's the essential question. You said you'd parallelly change the Criminal Law, but I don't see... Thank you. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20439	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20440	Very short. So it is clear that the adoption of all, of every law, and this is also a matter of parliamentary majority, and I believe that people have taken care of it. So, after the initial enthusiasm that was really obvious, so unanimously adopted principles of the law, etc., and here the consensus to conduct a public debate, which was done, and I was, I don't know what happened. Is the reason for this disagreement a large number of rejected amendments, the unwillingness to accept later, etc., that I am now not wasting my time. I am forced, somewhat confused by contradictory claims and people here and the public and the business world etc., I am not an expert on the difference, of course I see here there are experts for public procurement, I am asking the Director of the Public Procurement Agency, because this Law has two institutions that implement this Law, specialized two institutions that are paid and cost, please the Director of Public Procurement to tell me if this is the law that is absolutely acceptable and which solves problems including corruption, etc. If there's trouble and criticism tomorrow I'll be looking for your shift, so you're the director of the Public Procurement Agency and you should be the most competent person here for this area, please tell us if this is the law that's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20441	Thank you. Here's the word from the director of the Public Procurement Agency, Mrs. Dženit Fočo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20442	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me just say a few words. First of all, it would point out that this House has reached four conclusions in this session after considering audit reports that it is the Council of Ministers' task to prepare a new text of the Public Procurement Act in accordance with the directives. I don't have the numbers of these conclusions here, but they're very easy to find, which means we've been given the task of making the law in accordance with the directives. During the construction of the Law from 2011 to October 2012, when we delivered the text of the Law to the Council of Ministers, we did an analysis of the situation in the field of public procurement on the basis of this analysis made the text of the Law, so we wrote it and commented on SIGMA experts. Furthermore, we have incorporated Directives, in particular Directive 17/2004 and the Directive on legal protection, which is our obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 74. Agreement. We have respected all those developments on the ground and the problems we have had, which have been repeated year after year through audit reports, installed new tools provided for in the 2004 directives. They even installed some of the solutions of the 2014 directive, which was adopted in the European Parliament only now in January and February. The amendments and comments we received from the NGO, from the business sector, all the time making the Law, these amendments were delivered in the same form and in the final form, on the Commission for Budget and Finance, repeated, six or seven times these amendments were commented by SIGMA experts, because the Agency did not want to take the right to say to itself – we do not like this amendment, this one. We've been looking for the authority of experts in this area, and we've only taken the Agency's position after that. 88 Please, one more thing I would like to say is that a parallel to the situation in the region has been done, solutions are very similar in the region, respecting the circumstances and the situation in BiH. And what I would like to point out in the end is that this law cannot eliminate all problems because this is about a system of binding, internal audits, external audits, justice. The Agency for Public Procurement is a regulator. Our monitoring serves to record the situation on the ground and on the basis of which we propose changes to sublegal acts, amendments to the law, new attitudes. And you keep trying to impose an inspection role on one regulator that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. This Law will be a relief for both bidders and contract authorities. What I can say is that many narrow throats, seen in the application of this Law that is currently in force, will be removed by this Law. The increased degree of transparency, the reduced time limits for receiving bids for values that are below the value classes that are subject to international publication, the mandatory publication of the contract, what Mr. Honorable MP Bojić was talking about, when the contract was concluded then manipulated there. The OECD said the two most critical points for corruption in the area of procurement are technical specifications and contract realization. So what is subject to the law is not subject to corruption. The technical specification prepared by the contracting authority to put it together whether on a discriminatory basis, it is..., that point is critical, and realisation. I responsibly claim here on behalf of the Public Procurement Agency this Law is a major step towards the current situation in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20443	Thank you. Is there any misunderstanding after these statements? Shall we ask the Council of Ministers for him to declare himself and the resolution ministry, too? If I think we can. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on preventing money laundering and financing of terrorist activities – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH On the follow-up to the 63rd House session, held on 25.02, no negative opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security was adopted, and the Joint Commission, in accordance with Article 107(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, was adopted. The Rules of Procedure, tasked with drawing up a new opinion on the bill. The Commission's new opinion was delivered on 11 March 2014. The opinion is negative again. It's clear to all of us what's going on in the event of a renegade opinion, but it's good to open the debate. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20445	So, last time I was saying everything I had, now I just want to briefly do a little digression, that means I can't get the support of what usurps the jurisdiction of the RS, and the power to launder money as a crime has been established by the RS Criminal Law. The RS MUP has made a detailed analysis which will be submitted to the Munival Committee with all problems related to this Act, but also that we are ready to continue the talks to make an effort to change from 89 to 89 of all actors to change things, i.e. the Action Plan, which worked as an unselected working group, i.e. the Munival delegation in the Council of Europe, to change and to respect what the MUP RS wrote on nine pages as a recommendation. So we don't have any options except to not adopt that law. The 26th and 27th conference will be held in Banja Luka, which will be invited by the representatives of the Manivals and the Council of Europe and all the actors involved in this Law, and I hope that then some views will come closer. So if there's a good will in this country to listen to each other, we might also have a chance to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20446	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20447	I think it's useless for the future of this law to lead any debate here, because things are completely clear, unfortunately. But for some future activities and possible negative consequences for BiH, I should say only a few sentences. I don't know what's going on, really what's really going on, and why this law doesn't have a passage, because according to all the information I've collected from the RS representatives took part in the drafting of this Law, their opinions were respected, and only after the Council of Ministers adopted this Law came the subsequent opinion of the RS MUP regarding this Act. That's one thing I want to say. The second is that there is not a single provision in the law which, in relation to the existing law, transfers competences from entity to state. On the contrary, in new solutions, especially in Articles 81 and 62, solutions are such that competencies from the state are actually transferred to entities. I repeat, I don't really know what's behind it, so there's no permission to adopt this law from the RS, but I've stood up to say another application to the Council of Ministers, so it's urgent that it proceeds to realise the new text of the law, because obviously it's the only time BiH has no negative consequences. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20448	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20449	I mean, it's not exactly what my colleague Džaferović said. At first, it is not true that, in fact, RS representatives participated, but on page nine, the response was negative. So, if no amendment can be respected, then we're not event players. And no one can, you'll have to because the deadline is so close to the end that you'll be called by someone from the Manival Committee. Wherever we did not participate, we will never support this law, so no deadlines, because in this country, Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci has been established for five years and has not been taken by the actors for evil. The blockade of the House of Nations... The residence law which remains problematic is not controversial, and this is a key law for visa liberalisation. Don't tell me this is gonna be a problem. I talked to the Manival Committee members who were here, got a clear attitude, easy for them this country, it's definitely problematic, and it's easy to push them to the bottom with just one move. So they have a desire to help, have even... to send their experts 90 to participate in the work. I am relying on how to get out of this, not how to force MPs from the RS to vote in favour of a law they had no influence on.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20450	Thank you. Discussion, esteemed counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20451	I will try not to be anything extra, so definitely in this situation where we are, something must seem urgent to fix the matter, or to implement the directives addressed to us, we simply created international obligations by signing certain conventions and certain protocols, etc. It will happen to us, I would be most fortunate not to, but it is announced and possible, we will happen to go to that grey list that will generate losses for all the business world in BiH, regardless of the members of the RS Commission claim that there is no money laundering and no financing of terrorist activities, but the measures will apply to the whole of BiH. So, it will be controlled, I hope, God Bog, but then it needs a business world in BiH including the RS business world to know why it has problems in cash transactions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, he knows why there's a problem with cash transactions, etc. It's very important, it's very important to know. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20454	Thank you. A colleague of Senad Šepić's discussion. Here you go. /Shortly interrupted video/ Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We in the College have seen that we are only on the seventh item of the agenda, and that it is very late and we would suggest to the House that we continue this session on the 26th at 1000 hours. The next week is all busy, because... the seminar is right in this room, so it's impossible to do it next week. And 91 there is another proposal to vote on the fact that so far the points of the agenda that we have made to vote on. If you're in the mood to vote on both. So I'm putting the Kolegijum's proposal to proceed with this session in 26 hours at 1000 hours. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. Thirty-five, no offense and no abstentions. I find that the House has decided that the remainder of session 26 is at 1000 hours. Now I'm asking you who's in favour of voting on the 4th and 5th and 6th points of the agenda, which have been completed so far, right now. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 35, against 1, there were no abstentions. I find that Dom has decided to move on to the vote. Is there a need to take a break? I don't think so. Prepare yourself, we are voting on a request from the SDP Club for the draft law supplementing the BiH Election Law to be considered by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20456	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-03-13-0.u20457	I'm sorry, the secretary warned me there was a record before that. So we're going back, we're voting first, point one. - The adoption of the minutes from the 63rd session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 36, there were no abstentions. I find that we have adopted a record from the 63rd session of the House of Representatives. Now we're galling on point 4. – A request from the SDPBiH Club for consideration of the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 34, against 2 abstentions 3, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've adopted an emergency procedure request. The debate on the bill is opening, but I think we've discussed everything that can be said. 92 We are now voting on the draft law supplementing BiH's election law. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 16, against 20, abstentions 3, there's no general majority. I find that this bill has not been adopted. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion by Milorad Živković. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? _________(?) There is. An Interresor Working Group is tasked with continuing to work and, as soon as possible, by the half of April, to submit home reports on the work and agreed amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 32, against 8, there were no abstentions. I find this conclusion adopted. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on public procurement. We are voting on the Law in the second reading with the Commission's Financial and Budget Report containing 25 amendments. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
