ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-29-0.u4636	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 2nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I apologize that today's session is 20 minutes late. We did this knowingly and deliberately, we were asked by some colleagues and colleagues to wait for the weather. This will not happen in the future, the sessions will begin at the time they are scheduled. Please receive our apologies once again. Our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. There was no notice of absence from today's session. Mr. Amir Fazlić announced a short delay and Mrs. Borjana Krišto is on her way and she announced a short delay. A total of 39 MPs are present, according to information from the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The agenda of today's session was unanimously agreed at the session of the College of the House and the College of Homes in an extended composition, held on 22 December 2014. On the agenda are the points that are in the jurisdiction of the House, for which there are materials and for which there was no need to wait for the formation of commissions. Other points will be discussed at the next session planned for 15 January 2015 and the materials have already been delivered to the clubs. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who wants to talk? If no one answers the word, I conclude the debate and find the agenda of today's session as follows Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the constitutional session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Selection of members of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives: (a) Constitutional Legal Commission, (b) Commission on Foreign Affairs, 2c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, (d) Commission on Finance and Budget, (e) Commission on Transport and Communications, (f) Commission on Gender Equality; 3. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Customs Policy Bill in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-135/14, of 15.09.2014. (law in first reading); 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No: 01,02-02-1-37/14, of 23.09.2014. (Law by emergency procedure). We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. The first item of the agenda is Ad. 1. The adoption of the Charter of Constitutional Sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH You've got the record. I'm opening a debate on the record. Any objections? Here you go. Is anyone answering for a word? No one's answering for a word, no one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Selection of members of permanent committees of the House of Representatives: (a) Constitutional Legal Commission, (b) Commission on Foreign Affairs, (c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, (d) Commission on Finance and Budget, (e) Commission on Transport and Communications, (f) Commission on Gender Equality;
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-29-0.u4639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, as you said in the introduction, this is a proposal that we adopted unanimously at the Extended College. I'd just like to ask you to make a change in front of the SDA Club. In the Constitutional Legal Commission under number 2 instead of Mr Halid Genjac, we propose an amendment here and that Mr Senad Šepić goes there. So, in the Constitutional Commission, instead of Mr Genjac, Mr Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-29-0.u4640	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-29-0.u4641	Dear colleagues, esteemed present. Given the real strength of political options or quantum hands, only one little suggestion I said at the extended college. No matter how we consider and look, we should also look at something called proclivities and real knowledge of those who go to committees for the simple reason that, if we do accordingly, exclusively political option rather than what MPs possess, we may also have a disharmony tomorrow within our parliamentary work. So in one part, as far as I could see, those who are in real education, example, I'm not talking about names, for the Constitutional Commission are in another, those in the other are in some order and so on. Ad hoc commissions should also be formed in the future, taking care of what are the real preferences of MPs. And nothing more, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-29-0.u4642	Thank you very much, Mr. Backović. Who else wants to discuss it? If no one wants to answer the debate anymore, then I will end the debate on this agenda point. We're moving to the third item of the agenda, which is, Ad. 3. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Proposal for a Customs Policy Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in First Reading) This is about the Bill's proposal, which was discussed in the last House meeting at the 73rd session, held on 25 September 2014. When voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading, there was no need for an entity majority, and it was directed to agree on the House's College as a commission. The college in the former composition failed to agree on the proposal for a law on customs policy in BiH in the first reading. The Commission's report to the College you received. The debate is closed, we are left to plead in the second round on the Pre-Dog of the Customs Policy Act in BiH in the first reading. 4 We move to the fourth item of the agenda, that is, Ad. 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Amendment Law Proposal and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Emergency Act)
