ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4567	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, I am opening a constitutional session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The College of the House of Representatives of the so far convened this session in accordance with Article 2(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Article 3 of the same article found that the session was chaired by the oldest member of parliament to convene the new member as temporary chairman until the House chairman was elected. I am pleased to accept the duties of the interim chairman, and for those of you who do not know me and to introduce myself – my name is Mirsad Džonlagić. Let me, as interim chairman, welcome all the newly elected MPs and warmly congratulate you on your election of this responsible duty and wish us all a successful work in the next four-year term. I also welcome guests, as well as media representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before moving to the session agenda, allow me to read the list of Members elected to this high House in the General Elections held on 12 October 2014, as well as to introduce you to some of the general facts that we need for today's work. I would remind you that, in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law, 42 MPs are elected to this House, from the territory of the Federation of BiH, 28 MPs, and from the territory of RS 14 MPs. So, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Party of Democratic Action – SDA – Amir Fazlić, Asim Sarajlić, Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić, Šefik Džaferović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Halid Genjac, Nermina Kapetanović and Safet Demirović were selected. Democratic front of Željko Komšić – Željko Komšić, Hanka Vajzović, Mensura Beganović, Damir Bećirović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vljalica. Alliance for a Better Future of BiH - SBB Fahrudin Radončić - Damir Arnaut, Fehim Škaljić, Mirsad Isaković and Mirsad Džonlagić. 2 Croatian Democratic Community – HDZBiH, HSS, HKDU BiH, HSP Dr Ante Starčević, HSP Herceg Bosnia – Borjana Krišto, Vjekoslav Bevanda, Monika Tomić and Nikola Lovrinović. The Social Democratic Party of BiH – Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović and Mirsad Mešić. Croatian Democratic Community 1990 – HDZ 1990 – Dijana Zelenika. Bosnian Patriot Party Sefer Halilović – Zaim Backović. ASDA Party of Democratic Activity – jasmin Emrić. From the Republika Srpska Alliance of Independent Social Democrats – SNSD Milorad Dodik – Nikola Špirić, Staša Košarac, Dušanka Majkić, Milica Marković, Lazar Prodanović and Miroslav Milovanović. Serbian Democratic Party – SDS – Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Borislav Bojić, Đorđo Krčmar and Nenad Lalić. Party of Democratic Progress – PDP, NDP – Momčilo Novaković. Democratic People's Union – DNS, NS, SRS – Jovan Vukovljak. Party of Democratic Action – SDA – Sadik Ahmetović. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the constitutive session of this high House. You received a draft agenda in the invitation for today's session as follows: Agenda 1. Making a solemn statement by the Members; 2. Selection of the chairperson, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives; 3. The election of members of the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers. Given that such a agenda is required in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I do not think there is a need to take special part in the debate on the occasion of the agenda, and I suggest we move immediately to the first item of the agenda, which is, Add. 1. Making a solemn statement to the Members Part of the provision of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure reads: MEPs take office by joint giving and by individual signing of a solemn statement. You've been given the text of a solemn statement from the Home Service. I ask you that after giving the solemn statement, everyone sign and return the service. I ask you all to make a solemn statement together. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4570	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4571	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4572	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4573	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4574	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4575	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4576	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4577	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4578	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by the act of giving a solemn statement, we have obtained conditions for carrying out our parliamentary duties. It is my duty to ask you in this regard to fill out the forms that have been assigned to you on benches, which are above all: MPs' charts, Statements on getting acquainted with regulations in the field of processing of classified data, Declaration on preparedness to act in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Members and Delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Declaration on how to deliver materials in relation to language and letter. We're going to the second item of the agenda, and that's it, Ad. 2. Selection of the chairperson, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives Allow me to remind you of the provisions of Article 85 before you start proposing candidates. A Rules of Procedure which regulates decision-making in this House. Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the House reads: All decisions in the House are made by the majority of the votes of those present and voting. Delegates and 4 MPs will make every effort to include at least 1/3 of the votes of delegates or MPs from the territory of each entity. If most of the votes do not include 1/3 of the votes of delegates or MPs from the territory of each entity chairing and its deputies will meet as the Commission and try to ensure agreement within three days of the vote. If that fails, the majority of the votes cast by those present and voting on condition that votes against must not contain 2/3 or more delegates or MPs elected from each entity. I also remind you of Article 73. A Rules of Procedure which regulates the determination of quorum. Article 73 paragraph 1 reads: Most of the members elected to the House are quorum. According to the service report, I find that 42 MPs attend the session. So I'm realizing that we have a quorum for full-time decision-making. Now we can go to work on item two of this agenda. Allow me to remind you of the provisions of the House's Rules of Procedure relating to the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of this House. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 reads: After the MPs have made a statement to the House among their members, they shall elect one representative from each of the constituent people to perform the duties of the chairman, first deputy and second vice-president of the House. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I would like to remind you that he is now in office of the BiH presidency, a member of the Serbian people's presidency, Mr Mladen Ivanić, who took office on 17 November this year. Item 2 of Article 4 The Rules of Procedure reads: Every MP has the right to propose candidates for these duties. If there are more candidates for one place, the order of candidates will be determined by a tick. Once a list of candidates for each place has been established, it shall be voted on. Item 3 of Article 4 reads: In the first round of voting, the vote is first voted for the chairman, then for the first vice-president, and for the second vice-president of the House, and in the second round by reverse order. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 reads: If more candidates for one place have not received the required majority or received the same number of votes, the vote is repeated for two candidates who received the most or the same number of votes. Paragraph 5 of Article 4 reads: The election decision shall be taken by majority of the votes cast by those present and who vote by the fact that, in the event of a consensus, representatives of the political parties represented in the House will take part, and if the consensus fails to fully repeat the vote. Paragraph 6 of Article 4 reads: If no candidate has received the required majority of the vote, it is fully repeated. I hope that this was clear and that there is no need to appeal to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure anymore, and what we have heard so far will help us to do this job today, which is why we are gathered here today. Can we move on to proposing candidates? You'll have to excuse him when he answers his word first. Mr. Asim Sarajlić. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDA Club, I first use the opportunity to congratulate all MPs on their solemn statement and to take office in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I welcome the president of the BiH Presidency, members of the Presidency, all the distinguished ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, ambassadors and all who attend this solemn act today as the public at the Assembly, i.e. at the first session, the constituting session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives. I am taking this opportunity to, as you chair and state the rules of the Rules of Procedure clearly in Article 4, I am taking the opportunity to propose Mr. Šefik Džaferović to the chairman of the House of Representatives on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action. Mr. Džaferović is known to the public in BiH, Mr. Džaferović was the chairman of this House, the deputy chairman in 2002-2006, Mr. Šefik Džaferović was the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of this House in the previous two calls. I think Mr. Šefik Džaferović, with God's help, will perform this function with honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4581	I thank Mr. Sarajlić. Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4582	Dear President, members of the Bureau, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, guests. First congratulations to all colleagues on the election. In front of the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH and the parties of the Croatian National Assembly, I would like to propose to Mrs Borjana Krišto as the first deputy chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH in the order of the Croatian people. Mrs. Krišto acted, in addition to other functions, and as Minister of Justice in the Government of the Federation, the President of the Federation, and in the last term of office of MP(?) in the House of Peoples, and we are convinced that they will honorably and at their own level and act on this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4583	I thank Mr Bevanda. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4584	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. I think maybe we should take care of one dilemma first. Since Mr. Ljubić was the last chairman of the Kolegijum, I think Mrs. Krišto, perhaps I'm wrong, should be the second deputy, so I don't know, here's the deal. If she is the second deputy, then we propose Mr. Mladen Bosić for the first deputy, or if she remains that Mrs. Krišto is the first deputy then we propose Mr. Bosić for the second deputy. Mr. Bosić has a rich experience both in diplomacy and politics. He served as deputy 6 foreign ministers, BiH ambassador to Slovenia, then returned to political waters and was an MP at the Brcko District Assembly. In the last term, we have also seen him here, and among us all is an MP who entered this House with the largest number of personal votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4585	I thank Mrs. Pandurević. Is there anyone else to answer for this occasion? Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4586	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, chairman of the Bureau and members of the Bureau, ladies, journalists, Excellencys. I will not, of course, have the obligation to propose to anyone but I think that if we have for the chairmanship of the Serbian presidency and if some order is respected, the chairman of the Council of Ministers should be of the order of the Bosniak people, then it is quite logical for me to have the first chairman in this session be of the order of the Croatian people. And that's why I think, I don't know if Mr. Bevanda was wrong when he proposed to Borjan for his first deputy. So, since this is a new congregation and I think it would be quite correct, I'm talking about correctness, there's no dilemma for me, so not challenging the proposals and the right of parties to propose. So, I don't think anyone's slow to establish a new Council of Ministers that... from the Bosniak people. The chairman of the presidency is from the Serbian people and it makes sense for me to have the first chairman of this House be of the order of the Croatian people. And it's just a little correction,...made a mistake in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4587	I thank Mr. Špirić. Is anyone else answering for word? Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4588	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable and Honorable President of the Presidency, a member of the Presidency, ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of this address, I want to warmly welcome you all and congratulate everyone on the election in this House and to wish, of course, all of us one success in future work, to be constructive, to look for some compromise solutions for all that BiH, its peoples and its citizens need. I will briefly look back on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH and the parties gathered around the Croatian National Assembly, and in the context of, of course, the agenda – the election of the chairman, first and second deputy. Since, at BiH level, the establishment of the government may not have in some way crystallised all things but, of course, within this legal, constitutional time-limit, we have established this session of the parliamentary body as the highest legislative body in BiH, and in that sense, there is a logic that Mr Špirić spoke of in this mandate to take care of, of course, those rotations that are going on. Given that he is a member of the presidency, i.e. the chairman of the Serbian people's presidency, and that the 7th chairman of the Council of Ministers should be from the Bosniak people, then it would be kind of a logic for the chairman of the House of Representatives to be of the order of the Croatian people. Because even according to the Rules of Procedure, there is an obligation to rotate in these places, the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH and the parties gathered around the HNS will not obstruct in any way. It seems to us at this point so, in a way, insignificant. If the parties to the Bosniak people's order, specifically the SDA, want to take over the first presidency at this time, managing the situation, perhaps the current, or current chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Croatian People's Order, and we do not know when the executive power will be established, we, in some ways, accept it because the rotation is going either now or eight months from now. And we also think, as counterpart Pandurević said, when it comes to this next kind of rotation, so I think that in the order of the Croatian people should be the first chairman and from the order of the Serb people the second. In any case, I don't think that this should be some sort of thing at first or some of the problems between us, and when it comes to political parties and the suggestion in terms of the people we come from. Here, I hope that all of us, in some way, will be tolerated at the very beginning so that it just goes, so in this sense, I would say again, in front of the Croatian Democratic Community, that there will be no confusion, we will also support the chairmanship of the Bosniak people, here at the moment, and that the option remains that the first deputy in the order of Croatia, the second in the order of the Serbian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4589	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4590	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4592	I apologize, as I was saying whether or not to say, I am sorry that I welcomed the members of the Presidency on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH, our member of the Presidency Dr Dragan Čović would be present at this session today but of course because of the things that happened to him, because of his father's death, he is not present at the session today. Well, in that sense, I just wanted to briefly point out, so our situation, here... Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4593	I thank Mrs. Krišto. Mr. Mladen Bosić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4594	Obviously, these things aren't fully defined by the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, compared to those provisions that you have read, and there have been various changes in the structure so that, instead of rotating at the 8th seat of the Council of Ministers, a permanent function of the Chairman's Council of Ministers so that these provisions, that they cannot be three members of the same people, must be different peoples to the three most important functions, has lost their meaning. But since it's about the collective body, about the College, which rotates every eight months, practically, it's aware who will be and during which period the chairman, who will be the first, who the second deputy, will all be three times, or twice, at those functions, so if Mrs. Krišto proposes to be a candidate for the first deputy, we accept that variant, and I will be a candidate for the second deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4595	Now, I am going to read the list of candidates for the chairman, the first and second vice-presidents of the dom. For the chairman of the House of Representatives, the candidate, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, was proposed for the first deputy chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto and the second deputy chairman was proposed by Mr. Mladen Bosić. So we approach the vote in the first round on the proposed candidates for these three functions, i.e. for a member of the College. We vote first for the presidential candidate, which we have just mentioned is Mr. Šefik Džaferović. According to the Rules of Procedure in the first round of voting on the proposed candidates in case of multiple candidates, however, we have one candidate, we declare first the candidate for the chairman of the House, then the first vice-president, and the second vice-president, which in our particular case is exactly this procedure. In the second round, we will vote in reverse order, which means first for the second vice-president, then for the first vice-president and finally for the chairman of the dom. In accordance with Article 89. The rules of procedure will be carried out by cardboard, given that we cannot use the electronic voting system because of objective circumstances. In fact, 39 seats were installed in the Assembly Hall, and here at the chair of the three seats, so it was not possible to set identification cards for each MP. But that's not a problem, we have in every place these charts that we'll use when we declare ourselves about these proposals. So we're going to vote. I am voting on the proposal that Mr. Šefik Džaferović be elected president of the House of Representatives. I ask you first to see those who are in favour, it will be easier to choose. Who's in? Okay, well, I thank you, and I'm asking the service now to give me information as much as it is. 27, good. It's for 27. Who's against it? 7 is against it. And who's restrained? Seven, too, from what I've seen, is it? I would like to conclude that there were 42 MPs present during this vote. The vote was 27, against 7. The abstentions were 8. 9 I am giving the motion to elect Mrs. Borjana Krišto as the first deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4597	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4598	We thought in the second round we'd check out the entity majority in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4599	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4600	I've got a procedure the way it's been so far, and we're working on how it's been practiced so far, and you as an experienced MP, or representative, you know for sure that it's been done so far, in the second round we're checking the entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4601	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4602	Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4603	...and the other is the Rules of Procedure. So, please, there's an entity majority here and a general majority and there's no need for a second round. And that's all you're saying when the vote is over. If there's any indication that there's not a majority of them, then it's subjective and it goes further into process. So somewhere practice can be good and somewhere bad, but we have a Rules of Procedure. So there's both the majority here and there's nothing controversial about this vote and there's no need to go to the second round. And that was pointed out by fellow Šefik, to realize that there is a general majority and entity majority, and we believe that man has been elected. Why would he go to the second round, so the man's chosen. Thank you very much, and I congratulate the man on his choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4604	I hope you don't mind if we check out the Rules of Procedure, what exactly does the Rules of Procedure say, and we'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4605	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4606	Article 4 of Rule 3 of the new Rules of Procedure – In the first round of voting, first votes for the chairman, then the first vice-president, and for the second vice-president of the House, and in the second round in reverse order. 10 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4607	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4608	Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4609	At this solemn moment, we must clarify the procedure. The second round of voting refers to those situations where there is a general majority and there is no entity majority and the second round then involves other majority and those from the territory of the entire entity, so all elected and not only those present. To not overcomplicate, the regular voting procedure is, You asked who is for, who is against, who is abstention, just make sure that among those 27 there are at least 10 from the Federation of BiH entity and did' there, since 42 of us at the session has at least 5 of Republika Srpska's entities, find out and then publish the result and that's the final vote. I ask you to do the same in these upcoming two votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4610	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4611	Okay, although according to the Rules of Procedure, that's not exactly accurate, but here we can also accept that at the same time after this general majority vote to see if we have a proper ethnic majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4612	We have, we have 20 from the Federation, 7 from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4613	In 27 of those who voted in favour, 20 are from the Federation of BiH and 7 is from Republika Srpska's entities. That means we have the necessary and general and entity majority. Of course I congratulate the chosen... The House of Representatives. In another case, we'll also work simultaneously and check the general and entity majority. So, I am voting on a proposal to elect Mrs. Borjana Krišto as First Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives. Please prepare for the vote. Who's in? We've got 35 for it. Who's against it? There isn't. Abstained? Seven.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4615	11 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4616	Since the Federation of BiH voted, we have 21 votes, and RS 14, we find that we have received the necessary general majority and entity majority. So I congratulate Mrs. Krišto on her choice. For the second vice-president, Mr Mladen Bosić and I ask you, given that in the previous two cases we voted in the same way. So first of all, who's in? Against? And restrained who is it? You would be kind enough to repeat the vote for the abstentions once again, given that, by the sum, when we make 41 of those present in the hall vote, 42 are present, or MPs. So, abstentions? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. So, I'm saying, the 27 MPs voted for, the abstentions, the abstentions, the 7s, and the 7s against. Let's check the entity majority now. Someone didn't pick up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4620	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to continue the work of the constitutional session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 12 I ask the services to invite the representatives and guests who are here in the lobby to enter the O.R. to continue our work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the newly elected College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I thank you, I thank all those who voted for, I thank those who were against, those who were abstentions. We now have serious and responsible work to do. I want this House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and all BiH institutions to make a major contribution to stabilising the political scene in BiH, unblock BiH's integration processes, to give a boost to economic development and employment and all those jobs that are the responsibility of BiH institutions and this high House. Let me move to the third item of the agenda. It's the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Selection of members of the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers I would like to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the selection of the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers. In this regard, Article 6 of our Rules of Procedure reads: Political parties, coalitions and lists of independent candidates who have elected at least one MP in the House of Representatives propose at a constitutive session of one candidate, and the selected independent candidates are running by means of autonomy for membership in the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH. At the same session, the House decides on membership in the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers right after the election of the Dom College. Under this provision, the Commission should have 12 members, as 9 political parties and 3 coalitions are represented with MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I now call on political parties to make their proposals. I call upon the SDA, we will go, therefore, by this order which I am being appointed here, to make a proposal on behalf of the SDA. Here you go. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4622	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate the newly elected MPs and, of course, you in the College. On behalf of the SDA Representatives' Club, I propose that Mr Asim Sarajlić enter the Commission. I don't think we need any further explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4623	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović. I call on Parliament Club or political party DF Željko Komšić to highlight their proposal. Mr. Željko Komšić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4624	Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate all MPs and MPs on choosing and assuming this responsible function. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Krišto, 13 to you, Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Bosić, I would like to congratulate you on your choice in the College of the House of Representatives and to wish you successful work and to express hope that you will have in all of us associates who will facilitate your work and you will successfully lead this House. On behalf of the Democratic Front in the Commission, which you mentioned, we propose Mr Damir Bećirović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4625	Thank you, Mr. Komšić. I now call on the political party Alliance for a Better Future of BiH, their representative, to present a proposal. Mr. Džonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4626	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all once again. I, of course, welcome the chosen College of the Parliamentary Assembly and once again take the opportunity to congratulate you. As for our candidate as a member of this Commission, we propose Mr Fehim Škaljić as a member of this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4627	Thank you very much, Mr. Džonlagić. I now call on the coalition, representatives of the BiH-led coalition, there are also HSS, HKDU BiH, HSP Dr Ante Starčević, HSP Herceg Bosnia. Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4628	Here again, dear colleagues and colleagues, I thank all of them from the heart for their support and, of course, on our congratulations and here we are together, I want our work to be truly successful, constructive and, once again, in the interest of all the peoples and citizens of BiH. In front of the HDZ coalition, I propose Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4629	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. We now call on the representative of BiH's political party, Mr. Saša Magazinović, to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4630	Dear Chairman, deputies, colleagues and colleagues, we congratulate you all on your assumed mandate, especially for the members of the College in the election. On behalf of the SDP, BiH will participate in the Commission's work, Mr Mirsad Mešić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4631	Thank you very much, Mr. Magazinović. I now call on SNSD political party Milorad Dodik to give their representative. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4632	Here, Mr. Chairman, once again congratulations to the elected College and the chairman. On behalf of the SNSD, I suggest Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4633	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. SDS, Mr. Bojić Borislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4634	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also taking the opportunity to congratulate the elected MPs and, of course, the Kolegijum. I am taking the opportunity to propose a letter to Aleksandar Pandurević and, when it comes to the PDP and the NDP of Mr Momčilo Novaković, since political parties are taking part in this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-12-09-0.u4635	Thank you, Mr. Bojić. We will remain on this proposal in front of your Club, so in front of the SDS Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, and Mr. Momčilo Novaković, since he is the only one in front of the party, he, by law and by his Rules of Procedure, comes into this Commission by automation, I am going to publish it right now. Therefore, Members of the parties who have only one MPs automatically enter the Commission's membership. Therefore, candidates for Commission membership by automation are Dijana Zelenika HDZ 1990 Croatian Democratic Union, Zaim Backović BPS Sefer Halilović, jasmin Emrić A-A-SDA Party of Democratic Activity, Momčilo Novaković PDP-PDP-NDP and Jovan Vukovljak DNS Democratic People's Alliance of NS-SRS. Any new suggestions? So these are the proposals that are official, in fact others are not even possible, so I can conclude that we, for the Commission's proposal, have the following gentlemen, MPs and MPs: 1. Asim Sarajlić, 2. Damir Bećirović, 3. Fehim Škaljić, 4. Vjekoslav Bevanda, 5. Mirsad Mešić, 6. Lazar Prodanović, 7. Aleksandra, 9 / 15 Dijana Zelenika, 9. Zaim Backović, 10. jasmin Emrić, 11. Momčilo Novaković, 12. Jovan the Vukovljak. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. Please let us vote. So, first of all, I ask who's for this composition of the Commission? Just hold these charts until the departments do the count. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I can therefore conclude that this committee for the election of the Council of Ministers has been elected unanimously by 42 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been introduced to the Rules of Procedure, which you have received on the bench, to the provision of Article 5, which sets out the way for Members' clubs to be set up within 7 days of the day of this House's establishment. The position of Article 6 shall refer to the selection of members of committees, which should also be done within the next 7 days of the deadline set out in Article 5. So, members of the commission choose the House on the proposal of the Members' Clubs. I note that the parties should draw up lists of members of the Members' Clubs in accordance with Articles 5 and 16. Rules of Procedure. Every member of the club needs to sign the list. The club should have an official name, and the name of the chairman of the Club and of the Vice-President of the Club should be named. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have realised the agenda, and I am concluding a constitutional session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Thank you. Session completed at 13:10 p.m.
