ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19963	My fellow Members and fellow Members, please take your seats. Let's see if there's a quorum for work, please ask the secretary to establish. Today we continue the 63rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. At the continuation of the session, as so far, our regular guests were invited. I thank all those who are here today and those who are later invited. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by MPs Petar Kunić, Mladen Lijanović and MP Dragan Vrankić announced a delay. According to the information service, 30 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I would like to remind you that the session has been suspended on item 2 of the agenda – Parliament issues. I would also like to remind you that in the meantime the answers from the Justice Ministry came to the question of MPs Mladen Bosić and Drago Kalabić. We continue the session with item 2 of the agenda under b) New parliamentary issues. Please, since it is not possible for the service to have those questions that were previously, or MPs who have answered questions to return, to re-apply for questions. Here we go, dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19964	Honorable presidency, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I've given up in writing, so my personal question, and I have three initiatives in the meantime that we started as a club, so just for a stenogram, just to read them for a little while. The first is, so we, as the SDA MPs' Club, sent an initiative to reconstruct the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 13.02. Mr. Fahrudin Radončić's shift. Not to read it, so it already exists in the procedure. Another initiative, the SDA MPs' club calls on the Defence and Security Commission to analyse the security situation and the behaviour of the law enforcement agencies for past events without delay, and is seeking responsibility measures. And the third initiative is, the SDA MPs' club asks that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Administrative Commission, in line with citizens' demands, but also with earlier initiatives by some MPs, immediately reduces, both paying and all the privileges of representatives and delegates in the Paralementary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19965	Thank you. 2 Dear Member Danijela Martinović, a question new. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19966	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I've prepared five short questions. I'll read some of them, and I'll refer the rest in writing. So when will the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations propose and refer to the parliamentary procedure a new Law on Small and Medium Enterprises in order to finally unify different regulations relating to the classification and management of small and medium-sized enterprises? When will a new strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises be proposed and measures are being taken to operate the Agency and the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Fund at the state level? And another issue related to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – Do you plan to take action to amend the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy, given the fact that foreign investors, or the Council of Foreign Investors in BiH, have been pointing to the need to amend and recruit the law in order to facilitate business? The other two questions are a little longer and submitted in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19967	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19968	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome you and everyone present. My question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and it is said – What are the reasons why the FVO inspection of the European Commission's Food and Veterinary Office did not allow the export of milk and milk processing from BiH to EU countries, and what concrete steps will the Ministry take in the construction of the EU food security chain of risk management, and according to EU requirements? I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19969	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19970	Dear colleagues and colleagues. My two questions, one addressed to the foreign minister, the other to the defence minister. 3 For the foreign minister, the question is – Will and when will the review of all appointments of BiH Presidents in international organisations and institutions be carried out in accordance with the Presidency Decision of 22.04.2013? And who and when did he appoint three permanent members of BiH's Munival delegation to the Council of Europe for the Prevention and Laundering of Money, who have no legitimacy for representation? Who did and when did the head of that delegation set up? Also related to the Ministry of Defence – Why is the defence minister obstructing the resolution of surplus mobile military assets in line with the recommendations of the Doboj Workshop? Didn't this obstruction of the defence minister directly lead to the inability to release unsupervised military facilities-casary entities, and what does the Commission do on this plan to implement the process of resolving mobile military property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19971	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19972	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. For today, I have one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question. The initiative is addressed to the government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and to the Government of the Brcko District, which would reduce the health contribution rate by 30% of the prescribed amount, and would reroute those funds to an increase in the PIO-MIO fund exclusively for pension increases. All healthcare users except hospital treatment would participate in costs of up to 30%, which would significantly reduce medical congestion, the consumption of essential medicines, as well as the need for huge medical staff. Explanation in the context of the initiative. A parliamentary issue for the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – As far as it came with the implementation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's conclusions from 29.08.2013, is the Rural Development Measures Harmonization Plan and measures in BiH's agriculture, and how long has it been since the IPARD operational structure was established in BiH, since the agreement on the model of this structure has been long enough, and that this is one of the conditions for the IPA candidate for the period 2014 to 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19973	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19974	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues and guests. I have one complex question which was partly and repeated earlier addressed to the Council of Ministers and the Commission for State Property, which has never been answered. Well, let me ask the question again in this modified form. 4 Therefore, on the basis of the Act on Temporary Prohibition and the availability of state property and the intended exceptions which leave the Commission with the possibility of a State Property Commission to exempt certain assets from the temporary prohibition of availability, which the State Property Commission has and used, I ask the following questions. First, what criteria did the Commission manage when it made decisions on the exemption from the prohibition of the availability of state assets? How many such decisions have been made? How much is the area of real estate that these Commission decisions exclude from the ban on availability and what is the market value of these properties? And here, finally and the question, given that this question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers as well as to the Commission on State Property, from which no answer has come – Is there still a Commission on State Property and does it work in full capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19975	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19976	Your Honor, Mr. President. I, on several occasions, unfortunately unsuccessfully tried to trouble a problem that was very current and acute. I didn't get the right answers, so I have to ask the same question again. Namely, residents of the site of the Municipality of Bosansko Grahovo, Hercegbosan County, the Federation of BiH, BiH, live, are forced to live a life that is completely outside the law. I think it's a unique case. I don't think there's a similar example in Europe. I tried to look for answers and initiate actions that would address this tragic situation, but unfortunately, so far there has been no hearing. Again I ask, this time the Council of Ministers – Are they being guided, are any activities being carried out to resolve this problem of the locals of the Destroy? And if they are, what are these activities? I also ask the Secretary-General that he no longer directs me to the Commission for Integrated Border Management, but let him or the Council of Ministers try to obtain information, answers from that Committee. I don't know what to say next, but it's really amazing that, apparently, nothing is going to be done to solve a problem that is so natural that it takes quick and urgent action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19977	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19978	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers. I have two parliamentary questions and one initiative. I ask the first question to the Council of Ministers and Security agencies, and to the Press and Regulatory Agency for Communications – Have you identified, documented and processed individuals, NGOs, organisations and others who, not only participated in the violence and destruction of state property, but also called for 5 violence and justified violence among other things by claiming that only violence can be achieved, under quotes? A more specific issue for the Press Council and the Communications Regulatory Agency – Are your clear appeals and warnings to journalists and media to strictly adhere to professional press standards that require accurate and fair objective reporting, so this is a quote, respected? And if not, will journalists and media who did not comply with legal and professional obligations and standards bear legal consequences? Namely, following media reports on demonstrations in BiH from the beginning so far, I have been under the impression that many reports are not in line with professional and ethical standards, that they are unilateral and cheerleading and that the worst is not rarely called for demonstrations, and even justification for violence. And I want to remind myself of the important function of the media and I am now quoting, therefore, from the explanation of the RAC – to prevent the spread of disinformation, manipulation of public change and the spread of panic, fear and general uncertainty of citizens. Manipulative reporting and misleading the public with the wrong information are the most difficult violations of journalistic reporting, with inconceivable consequences that such information can have in this sensitive time as it currently is in BiH, the completion of the quote, therefore, from the Council's appeal for the press. And, of course, I'm not talking about the problem of inadequately responding to law enforcement agencies, from the D.A., through the Police Coordination Directorate, SIPA, entity police, cantonal police, etc. That for a much more serious... in this House than one parliamentary question. The second parliamentary question – Are the representatives of the executive government of state and entity level engaged in the functions of the boards of directors, and if so, do they receive monetary fees for this and in what amounts? I refer the issue to the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the RS. And finally the initiative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am delivering to you the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH a representative initiative. "In line with the declared foreign policy priority of BiH, EU membership and current, unfortunately, our failed steps towards achieving this goal, I am launching an initiative to prepare the Council of Ministers hastily prepare information and ensure the translation of the European Parliament's resolution, so that at the first next session of the House of Representatives, it can learn about the content and recommendations of the European Parliament to speed up our path towards the EU." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19979	Thank you. The second vice-president, distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19980	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, respected media representatives. 6 I also have an initiative that is partly similar to that of counterpart Mehmedović, perhaps just a little more accurate in all of this. So, I am launching an initiative towards the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs to adopt, as soon as possible, the necessary acts that have been lifted by all professional MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, followed by a serious reduction of salaries to MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as well as access to a serious reduction of any other privileges of Members and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I expect also to join the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency in this way, and I propose, although I am not exclusive, that the funds that are saved from these reductions of income, etc., should be directed to one fund for the scholarship of talented students and students in the territory of all BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19981	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, new question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19982	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have one question for all BiH prosecutors, so the BiH Prosecutor's Office, entity prosecutors and cantonal prosecutors in the Federation, and this is the next. Almost a year ago, I asked a parliamentary question without believing in public talks that many economic operators for accounting rather than paid taxes and contributions to the Federation only owe almost a billion and a half KM. These days, we've heard that the Department of Indirect Taxation has announced that we also have about 400 million unpaid indirect taxes. I couldn't get to the data, how many could possibly be in the RS, but I guess since the situation is similar, less or more, I ask all these prosecutions – are there any elements of criminal liability in the institutions responsible for controlling taxpayers, for collecting tax returns, taxes, or taxpayers? If there is, have they initiated any criminal proceedings for this much debt? And I'm just going to do it one more time -- the Elektroprivreda BiH, which is very interesting, means it owes more than 200 million KM to the miners of Mines Kakanj, Zenica, Bez and Tuzla. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19983	Thank you. The next question came from distinguished counterpart Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19984	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and today who are present here for the meeting of the BiH Parliament. I didn't mean to answer, but maybe this question was interesting when we had this session about 20 days ago, so here we are today, but it remains current. Obviously, Chairman, about this issue here we've had some and... I think that maybe we should have added to the agenda, if that was businessly possible, or called maybe one session today to analyze, today means calling one session, it might have been an extended college emergency, to analyse the overall situation in BiH. Here we have representatives of all security agencies within the time limit, I'm going to ask the question, but here's a few initiatives that should have seen the light a year or two ago, right? These initiatives from both one chairman and the other I think they are being dishonest and using, is the political moment in 7 BiH about wage cuts, etc. These initiatives were a year or two ago, whether or not it is known exactly how many individual board members have received. Let's say, at the Directorate of Direct Taxation, the chairman of the estate, Minister of State 2,400 KM, General 2,200.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19985	kolega Jurišić, it is not correct when they have finished asking questions that you comment on their questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19986	Here, I'll fit in in two minutes. I'll fit in.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19987	It doesn't matter if you fit in, they don't have the right to discuss with you about their issues right now. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19988	Because, I mean, asking questions doesn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19989	Well that's their thing, you ask your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19990	All right. Here I would ask the question of the indirect tax administration, I was going to ask this one last time, because in the media, it was announced that the indirect impeachment board excluded goods worth about 85,000 KM. I saw it on the diary, and a few days ago, another 50,000 marks, at least that's what the media says. So here, I'm interested – What is the further fate of the exempt goods, and is this goods going down somewhere in the hangars of the indirect taxation administration, as it has failed so far because of the legal procedure, and is it going to lose that value that, here they say 85,000 marks, is it about 10 times, or is it going to fail, as we have seen in so far, that much of that exemption has failed? Here, it's for the indirect tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19991	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19992	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to launch an initiative to translate the proposals made in relation to wage reductions and other fees into one additional initiative, which is that, in parallel to or even independently of the legal regulation of the area, as an individual act of each agent, a decision on voluntary depriving of receipts, i.e. denying receipts for which, either on a collective or on an individual basis, we consider that in the present situation, they represent an unacceptable form of social privileges and that they should be eliminated in a certain way. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19993	Is there anyone else who can ask a question? There isn't. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to third, Ad. 3. Bill on the Rights of Cake Victims – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 05.11. The Constitutional Foundation's Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 04.12. and on the House of Peoples' opinion on the constitutional basis also on 04.12.2013. The opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics was not adopted at the last 62nd House meeting, and the Commission is responsible for drawing up a new opinion in accordance with Article 107(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. A new opinion was delivered on 06.02.2014. The opinion is negative again. I'm opening a debate. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19995	I thank the chairman. Well, let me mention first, we did get a document that bears the name Opinion on the bill, but we didn't get any arguments. So, here it was said that they voted, 4 for, 4 against, that the bill had not passed and that the Members of the Commission would present their reasons at the session. So we have no argument from the Commission which has managed with such a negative opinion. But let us allow, even after the first debate, here and today, to say, my colleague Belkić and I, who is absent, but the course around this law, the bill and his fate state that there is obviously not enough will to be approached in a unique way to regulate this matter. And what may particularly need to be mentioned and reminded that this Law and this Bill proposal are the result of requiring more initiatives from different NGOs throughout BiH, so from both entities' space. That the bill had been delivered to the Council of Ministers in good time, which unfortunately lacked an answer. And the aim of this law was to ensure in a unique way the right to access justice and the right to equal compensation for all BiH citizens. This was, in our opinion, a debt of both this Parliament and the state institutions, or all of us here, to the victims of torture, no matter what torture, what torture and where the torture was done. This is also our obligation, and thus we have managed to propose this Law, and according to the Constitution which says, in Article 2, it is talking about human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the obligation of BiH to respect international legal norms and human rights standards, that is, freedom. In this proposal, we have also managed the fundamental principles of registration of torture victims, reparation, memorialisation, implementation of international acts and the fact that only the state can in a unique way ensure the right to access justice and also ensure compensation for all its citizens. So whoever proposed such a law or similar would have to be governed by these fundamental rights, or principles which we, as legislators, too, had to be governed. 9 With regard to both the fact and the fact that this Law has its own rules and procedures, therefore to the procedural flows, my colleague Belkić and I have also prepared one conclusion to assign the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver to Parliament the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims within 90 days. That's what could have been heard in previous discussions about this Law and the reserves that someone had, because my colleague Belkić and I, or it would probably have been about someone else if he had been a proposer of us. But here, if we leave it to the Council of Ministers, maybe we'll all be a little more objective and argumentative in the debate and accept one such solution that we are both morally and constitutionally, and in any other way mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19996	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19997	Dear Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, when an initiative came from respected colleagues, Professor Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, it didn't matter to me at all who suggested it. So, the initiative as an initiative had the best intentions and with, I would say, starting with a noble foundation, the basis for passing one of these laws. However, I must, and this is not about an individual to me, if anyone were interested in passing this law I would be, but as an MP, I must not look at my own personal interests but at the interests of everyone I represent in this House, and I must say that none of, at least as far as I know, and I was well informed, from the RS of the representatives of these associations, who represent all those to whom this law would apply, was not consulted to the extent to which it was meant to be. I, in the last session, hinted, and I will, of course, do so, and I will be grateful in the end to Professor Azra and Mr Belkić for submitting an initiative to pass this Act, because it comes to me as a basis to appeal to the Constitutional Court of BiH, and which I will certainly get, because Protocol of the Geneva Convention, Protocol 3 on the protection of citizens and persons from torture and abuse is stronger and has a supermat of the domestic constitution, so the Constitution of BiH. And here, BiH was responsible as a state to protect all its citizens. She didn't do it, of course. And this will prevent two more things, the current chaoticly, I would say, the situation and in some parts of the race who will file more charges against the RS, counting on them to destroy it economically, because they have to pay compensation, and they have to be paid. Well, then it comes down to the lower level of cantons later, so whoever gets a verdict gets its rights. Somewhere in a month, and I've been following it, somewhere in half a year to collect that damage, one common color, one general chaos. But I repeat what is the essence of my initiative, to reduce the pressure, and all those who are in illusions, if someone has stopped by, because I'm following it in the press, I'm monitoring in the media others, that they think that if they've delivered damage claims, they're currently over 600 million marks, 8,000 persons, or torture victims. And I repeat here at the pay phone, because I know that I consulted myself, and whatever I don't know, it's just that BiH can be sued, because it has legal subjectivity as a state. Entities are part of BiH and they have no legal subjectivity in front of international institutions. Of course, I don't want to hold a letter to anyone, I've never been a man who, just from where I'm entitled to threaten someone, especially BiH, but she's going to lose this dispute, like she lost Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci. So in the last session, I suggested it, because nobody here knows what some media published yesterday, nobody cares, this is going to be called Jovičić's appeal and others who join me, and there are a few more people I took against BiH. Not that I want to tear it down economically 10, but that definitely this country has to do once, whether it's going to be in a year, two, five, ten, whether I'm going to live or someone else, to find the means to deprive these people. Because no one volunteered to go to camp, no one volunteered to burn his property, to be killed, etc., etc. So, if anyone has more grounds in Parliament to talk about this subject, I do. I pray to Bog and I am grateful, because I believe in Bog, which my colleagues who don't even like my performance, that they haven't felt five minutes of trauma and let alone torture, and don't, God Bog, the whole war. So I will finish and say I have no reason to threaten anyone, I will be grateful to Professor Hadžiahmetović and Belkić for starting this and it will be good for me as a basis. The apelacija is already over, it will be handed over to the BiH Constitutional Court, so this process will last. And if this law isn't passed, no one should lose hope of being disappointed that it wasn't adopted, and I'll be against passing the law in this way, but I'll do what I've already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19998	Thank you. Replica, a respected colleague of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u19999	Here, I almost wanted to give up the replica, but here's an opportunity to perhaps express the satisfaction, though... this is one sad occasion, but also the pleasure of discussing my colleague Jovičić, but one small correction of the wrong quote. In a series of letters of support for this Law, colleagues Belkić and I, among other things, have more RS support. So, were they all adequately participated, so I don't even know if everyone in the Federation has been adequately participating in the drafting of this Law. We didn't even pretend he was the best, so there's a first and second reading, etc. But not to give this law a chance at all and to pass this law in Parliament on the proposal of my colleague, Belkić and I, it is almost unforgivable. From there and in that direction, here in view of the outcome that will be as it will be, we propose this conclusion that the Council of Ministers deliver the Act within 90 days. Thank you. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20000	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20001	Necessary? Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20002	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20003	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20004	Just one thing, Mr. Chairman, an explanation, so there won't be any misunderstanding. I didn't even question it, Professor Hadžiahmetović, from whom you received, which associations, I don't know, really. Maybe it was better if I was informed so let me say these are representatives, 11 because as far as I know about myself and how I got out of the camp I'm dealing with these activities and I'm on it. Are these representatives of authentic associations representing the victims of torture? I didn't, I say, question your statement, so there are clarifications. So, getting your support, so you'll get it from me, I said in what way. But today I won't vote for the law for the simple reason that not all procedures are respected, as I think we should. BiH was not focused here, and it was the only one in charge of this convention that is on our side. When I tell ours, since I'm talking, and I'm going to take myself for the right to speak in the first place, not for the sake of my own interest, but for the fact that I represent such an initiative, that I'm going to do it, but not to repeat myself. So, Professor Hadžiahmetović, you understand me, I'm not questioning all the letters you've received, I respect that. When the session's over, I'll ask you to see if you want to give it to me, see who these associations are, and I'll help you with that. So it was just my intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20005	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present. Well, here's the SDA Club, and in the first review of this Law, it's its position, and I'm taking the opportunity to do it again because the same matter, so the Tortre Act, it's found itself again in the procedure, and unfortunately again with negative opinion. And what I'm trying to say is that the SDA Club supports the Cake Victims' Rights Act. For this reason, the SDA will vote against negative opinion. And in my opinion, what I said last time, the bill prescribes a way of obtaining victim status, the right of sacrificial torture and the right to compensation and immaterial damage, establishing records of victims and series, means very important details that, just what counterpart Jovičić was talking about earlier, live to recognize these victims and that BiH's victims of torture, regardless of nationality, enter into law through the system and exercise certain rights. We believe it is necessary to open a serious dialogue and make an effort that would result in a law that would put the BiH state in a serious relationship with these victims, i.e. people who felt torture on their skin during this period. If we are to seriously resolve this Law, this matter that we are putting the victims of torture into the system is necessary, and I don't know why some are running away from the adoption of this Law, we need to adopt this Law. It is a chance today to refuse that negative opinion to have that first reading, and then everything that could be better written in this Law, in the amendment phase, to try to do and to finally have that one positive result. Here, on the other hand, let me say once again, support the SDA when it comes to this law. And in a way, not to say, a request, a request, to all fellow Members of Parliament to adopt this law in the first reading and in the second phase, of the amendment, to try to correct it in the way that we all think it should look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20007	Thank you. 12 I'm closing the debate. Of course, we are all aware that after the second negative opinion of our Commission, we only technically need to find out at the vote or that the law has been rejected or that the procedure has been stopped. Something like that on the fourth agenda, Ad. 4. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer: Home of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The Commission on the College's efforts to reach agreement on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH and the proposal for the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not reached agreement and the legislative procedure in this case has been practically completed. Depending on the result of the vote, it will be established whether the bill refuses, if negative opinion is adopted, or the legislative procedure is suspended unless the opinion is adopted. This is in accordance with Article 107(4). Rules of Procedure. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on preventing money laundering and financing of terrorist activities – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20010	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we have an important law in front of us, so the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities, many of which is one of the more significant laws that this Parliamentary Assembly is considering, but also by many means a symbol in which we should not work, at least when it comes to law-making institutions. The principles of the law were not supported by representatives of the RS and the reason for this is next. The first reason is that every time the draft laws come by the Ministry of Security in any way tries to gain some of the RS's competences. So we got two laws from the Ministry of Security and both laws, so the one we're talking about and the Law on Border Control, which we'll talk about later, 13 both in one hidden way trying to reach responsibilities that don't belong exclusively to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second reason, we also explicitly said – if the representatives of the RS do not have the opportunity to participate in the adoption, i.e. making laws that should be applied to them once, we have no obligation to support such legal solutions in any way. So those who make laws in a narrow circle of similar people must count on not getting support from MPs from Republika Srpska. The third reason, the international body representing BiH in the Manival Committee at the Council of Europe are only elected members who have not confirmed any institution, no presidency, no Council of Ministers, but the institutions have chosen only. So of the three members of that delegation, one ended up with a felony suspension from the workplace, because he was just doing what he was supposed to fight in the Manivalo Committee. We therefore choose such representatives in international bodies and therefore achieve such results in international relations. And in the end, perhaps, it is most important that no convention that touches this matter is fulfilled by this Law. So we have an informal group that represents us in the Council of Europe. And I had a chance yesterday to talk to the Manival members who visited BiH and I talked to them as the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission and said about everything I think is problematic in this Law and everything that is impossible for the RS to express its clear position on it. So it happens that in the Manival sessions, when we are to present our opinion, the delegation is financed by the Council of Europe four times a year for seven days, and the RS itself is funding its members who go there, and by the halls is trying to change the situation that has been made by such an incompetent group in the Council of Europe. He can't do this anymore. So, no law that you haven't asked us what we're thinking, if we have any objections, in which way we think it needs to be fixed, especially if we have to apply it, if we should apply it, we won't adopt it. Those who think they're making a law in a narrow circle of people, without consulting all those who can help make this law as high as possible, will not get our consent. So there's no seizing any more jurisdiction. I thought that was understood by all the ministries, and I still needed the Ministry of Security to understand, but here's the chance that I didn't talk to the minister. I know that the laws are done by people who have worked for the past 20 years and that constantly, I think that the Ministry has the smallest number of laws adopted, because every law is an attempt to take some of the jurisdiction. Someone's gonna adopt this someday. I suggested to the Manival komitet to put the whole group ahead and everyone to say what they thought about it. Maybe that'll be the answer. Like this, even putting on BiH's blacklist won't change things because it's going to behave around Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's verdict that can't be implemented for so many years, it wouldn't be a miracle that even the requirements of the Manival Committee can't be met. They should come again at the end of the year, it is an alarm for BiH, or the Ministry of Security, to sit down all actors and to agree on how to get out of this. Only in this way will we come to a law that will allow an important segment to be completed and BiH to fulfil the tasks ahead of it, when it comes to this important matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20011	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20012	Thank you, Chairman. We should all be aware of the importance of adoption, not only of this Law but of the amendment and addition of the Criminal Law, which are two conditions for a positive opinion in the fourth round of analysis of the compliance of our legislation with those that are requirements. It is symptomatic that the story of the transfer of jurisdiction appears in the finale of long-term activities. I really don't want to go into personal conflicts within any committee, and it's obvious that in this case BiH as a state that is threatening to put on a gray list, then perhaps potentially black, actually suffers the consequences of personal conflicts in working groups, commissions or I don't know what everything, which is later reflected through the views of representatives who, on the basis of this information, form their own opinions. I think that we should rise above these things and put interests, not only BiH that can be affected by possible consequences, but also entities, cantons, Brcko District, because everything that happens is not only happening in this building but in all BiH, and everything that happens will not only happen in this building and the building across from us, but in all the institutions. As a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we had a meeting at the last session in Strasbourg with the representatives of Manival and it is very clear what the consequences of this whole story can be. In what way in what may happen, if this law and the amendments to the Criminal Law are not passed, I can also react to commercial banks, in which way their business and payment turnover within BiH will be made difficult, I do not want to prejudge, I will just say that those things we have heard are very serious. And in that sense, I really call for us to be constructive. This is the law in the first reading, I think it should be given a chance that if there is an amendment to the amendment to act on this Law and to adopt the Law, and once again stressing that personal conflicts within the Commission should be put aside.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20013	Thank you. Replicate reply, Honorable MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20014	...is simplifying the affairs of certain MPs. It's a matter of their understanding, so I don't want to debate on the subject, but I want to say a few things that might be important to know. Criminal law has failed because of the same thing, so the Manival komitet is important both in this Law and the Criminal Law that fell on the same thing, on the transfer of jurisdiction, to determine that the issue of money laundering is exclusively about BiH and that the government of the RS has nothing to do with it. It's impossible, it's our jurisdiction that stands in the law, it's impossible to change. So someone had to know when he thought and did the Law. Another thing, had there been intentions in this country to do things right then, the working group, formed by the 2005 Council of Ministers, would have brought its work to an end and proposed a solution. So the task force that was meant to do this. And you know when she was last in session? 2010 Why? Because members of the task force were asking a question – what is happening in the Manival Committee, who has appointed a delegation that is going up, how is it possible that such bad proposals are on BiH's side, why can we not make a concrete contribution in terms of fixing these documents? And it's all gone without an answer. So, RS is funding itself, it should go to Strasbourg and represent attitudes and try to fix what this group, in which a recent 15 member has been arrested and suspended for abuse of position. So don't tell me, what are we talking about here? So, it should be adopted regardless of what is against the jurisdiction of the RS, which should be taken away as much as it can because it threatens us to come to the blacklist. We take care when we make laws not to come to the blacklist, we make sure we can't get support for laws in which we don't have the participation of all those actors that the law applies to. That's what we said several times, and we can't get a consensus on that question, if we can't get it, then it's always going to be this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20015	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20016	I'm going to react very briefly. My kolegica Majkić and I have a completely different approach to this whole law-imposing story. I am talking about the importance of the Law, about the need for it, for its adoption, and my colleague Majkić is talking about personal relations, about who traveled or did not travel to Strasbourg. And we, I understand that, have a completely different approach to working in Parliament when it comes to this matter. However, I would like to point out once again that the story of the transfer of jurisdiction will show whether or not it stands, but it has certainly already proved to have come at the final stage, that is, when the law came to Parliament. I will remind you all that this Law was unanimously adopted at a Council of Ministers session and that there was, therefore, unanimity adopted by the Law, that there was no correction to this Law, and that everything, all the problems related to its adoption, appeared afterwards. I would like to stress once again that I believe that this Law should be adopted in the first reading and possibly any corrections that have so far been made by those who have had the opportunity not to and have not had the opportunity, we should try to adopt and balance the law through parliamentary procedure in a way that is acceptable to all, because it is clear to us that no law can be adopted in this Parliament unless it is acceptable to all those whose hands are necessary for its adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20017	We're talking about colleagues and colleagues, so we're talking about the Commission's negative opinion. Please focus on the arguments for and against that negative opinion. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20018	Thank you. I would like, on the basis of my colleague Majkić's words, to make only one opinion, given that it is mentioned and described in the explanation under point 2 on page 49. I don't know if all MPs have it or if I'm the only one who's been given it. It is precisely mentioned here and described who participated in the drafting of this Law, and there are exactly the said Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agency for Banking of the Republic of Slovenia, and plus all institutions at the level of the state in which they are, I believe and believe, participants certainly from part of the RS when it comes to this area. I don't think so, it wouldn't be a good idea if this was the case for possible untrueness, I don't know, if no one was involved in the making of this law and no one was wondering. I just want to say whether we should have asked and walked and told that there are 16 local community presidents involved in this kind of thing, except for the Ministry of Interior and the RS Banking Agency. I don't think I see these changes as problematic. And as far as the law itself is concerned, I think we need to consider it and make sure that we take care of it because this is a very important law for bh integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20019	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. I apologize, Replic, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20020	So, again, I have to say that the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia sent nine sides in the eighth month, Fund 11, I say how small it is to care for as few sides as possible, the objection to the law and ask for those changes to be changed. And no one's done anything. So, take part but what's worth it to me if I don't accept what I suggest. What am I sitting here for if I can't accept anything from what I'm peddling? That's one thing. And secondly, this is not a working group formed by or an ad hoc commission, but an international delegation representing BiH that has not been chosen by any body but by a self-proclaimed delegation. So who can represent this country in international, different international forums, who does it come to mind? Does that mean that each of us can propose himself and represent BiH in international bodies, so it's a circus. The presidency ordered a review of all elected delegations, but when it will be. So, don't banalize things, all BiH's problems here on this bill are visible.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20021	Thank you. Replica, MP Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20022	Well, here, I'll have after the discussion, but I'd love to, because I see this really going the wrong way, so I respect all this stuff that my colleague Dušanka is talking about, so I think you're really misinformed about all this. And here, I don't know if you have the right to a replica, if you don't have the possibility that one of your colleagues should say specifically – which member is it and in which sentence is the transfer of jurisdiction over the existing Law when it comes to the jurisdiction of the RS? I have completely different information, and when I discuss it most directly I will point it out to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20023	Thank you. Ismeta Dervoz, the replica. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20024	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to stress that the Alliance for a Better Future Club supports all those who, in this Parliamentary Assembly, communicate the importance of the adoption of this Law and what it will adopt as such in BiH's legal legislation. Ms. Majkić said that the alarm was on for BiH because in 2014 we will have a new... The alarm was on in 2006, and since 2006 we have never met a third of all those requirements set before BiH. Of the 110 recommendations that BiH had, only to date, have been met, probably because this is exactly how we treat this Law and everything that it has to solve in our country. I would like to point out that 190 countries in the world are members... who can apply sanctions against BiH if there is no adoption of the law that we are talking about today. And the law, these sanctions can be applied to legal and natural persons and therefore it is very important to think about how we approach the debate on the adoption of this Law. What's my question and what's causing me to be confused is that we're talking here about members of some delegation that have been appointed themselves and who have made their own decision to participate. The delegation includes the director of the BiH Insurance Agency, the head of the Department of Co-operation with domestic and international judicial authorities and the parallel law of the BiH Ministry of Justice and the head of the team, is head of a team to prevent and investigate terrorist financing activities in SIPA. So, who named these people, maybe you've known since 2005, when it started talking about it. We are talking today that this is not a law that comes from a particular ministry, this law comes from the Council of Ministers of BiH, unanimously supported principles. So we're talking about questioning the absolute importance of what BiH is. And if that is the intention in this Parliament, then we can use those sentences on some transfers of jurisdiction, but I would rather use some other sentences – cooperation, interaction, joint work on something rather than ex post wit and deliberate destruction and intentional attempt to collapse certain possible steps forward within the improvement of the legislation in BiH. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is the first reading, let's show that we are responsible enough and aware of the importance of this Law and give the opportunity to fix and bring it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20025	Thank you. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20026	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It's practically everything you had to say. If I wanted to make something new today in this debate, then it could be one warning and a reminder of a situation in which BiH was in a few years ago when we discussed a set of laws that meant or which meant a visa-free regime with EU countries, so visa-free regime within Schengen. No Niko can wash us out of responsibility, so the BiH institutions, because the Law on Travel documents between the two homes, agreed between the two homes for a few, six, seven months, that we were late with the Law on Border Control, which we had problems with jurisdiction over the arms law, etc. And then it happened that BiH practically remained the last in a series of Southeast European countries to win a visa-free regime with the Šengen countries. If BiH does not adopt this Act in time, we will find ourselves in a similar situation and we will arrive at gray, and then on the 18 blacklist and become questionable and will be placed on the list of suspicious transactions of all financial transactions that have gone abroad from this country, BiH's credit rating will fall, and I think it will be questioned and arrangements, i.e. the IMF's relationship with BiH. I am saying this, therefore, for the warning and for the importance of all that this Law means. We've been trying for a few years, trying all the time, trying to pass this law. A few years ago, the law fell into parliamentary procedure by the same destroyers and this law because the Financial Intelligence Department was moved to a special SIPA institution. Here, in this law, it's the Financial Intelligence Department that remains within the SIPA. I don't know what the problem is now and what it's about to transfer jurisdiction. I don't think this law is going to be like this at BiH level and then making excuses. The BiH delegation's maneuver is drawn up as Mrs Dervoz explained. In accordance with the rules of the international organisation and the delegation, three representatives, one from the financial, legal sector and this financial and intelligence sector, enter. And it's a BiH delegation. Not entity representatives as entity representatives, and such a request is now an excuse not to adopt this law, to be in a BiH delegation. People from entities can, but they are members of the BiH state delegation, and they do not represent an entity delegation, so they represent the whole of BiH, such is the country's constitutional structure, such is the relationship in international affairs. So the delegation, which is a delegation from Manival from BiH, is drawn up in accordance with the rules that the international institution is asking BiH to do so. And these are representatives of BiH regardless of where they come from and from which institutions they come from. Those in that delegation cannot represent only one entity. Such, such a kind of requirement is actually being made. I ask you to keep these matters in mind and call on the House of Representatives to reject the negative opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security and to give the Commission guidelines to reconsider this Law in its first reading and to give it a positive opinion. If there are any problems with the content of the Law, tell us what the problems are, let's see what we can do in the amendment phase. I think we're in a situation where we can make a cardinal mistake that will make the state suffer for a few years and we'll regret it. I therefore call on you to warn you, such a scenario and such development of events, to prevent it in this way – to reject the Commission's negative opinion, to return this to the Commission again and to get the law with a positive opinion in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20027	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20028	Well, then, here I support all these discussions that are heading towards that we actually understand what we are discussing today and how much this, this Law, and how important this thing is for all the citizens of BiH, for all our institutions at all levels. So this applies not only to institutions, state institutions that act most directly at the level of the BiH state, but to everything, and even to all individuals. So there are a few things here that I want to particularly apostrophe. So it's true that since some 2006, the story has been open on this subject, it's true that we've made several working groups, it's true that in the last working group, it's been in agreements with entities, so the representatives of entity institutions and states whose jurisdiction this is. It is also true that all and one, all and one of the amendments to the existing Law, which we are discussing today, on this task force each member is individually discussed and each member, each member has been declared individually 19. It is also true that for all and one of these changes, therefore all and one member of the task force voted. Here, I call for today, so we ask that these reports be delivered to us from these working groups, and then you will see, in fact, that perhaps some information that appears before the end for these or those reasons, for this or that dissatisfaction of certain members with their own status, should not and should not burden the state and all of us. So for three years we've been discussing this, this issue with the last working group. And after we received such a bill, such changes as have finally been made by the Council of Ministers, there has been one regret that RS representatives want to be an entity representative in the membership of a delegation in front of BiH. And it was an official request that went to the Ministry of Security without any other arguments and without any other objections to the text itself, or to the draft law itself. So, I think that if we want to speak with credibility and if we want to talk with arguments, then we, as MPs here in Parliament, can also request these reports and the status of members within that working group and also ask how each member discussed it, or how he voted on each of these amendments that we now have in this draft of the law. What is particularly to be pointed out here, so these days, this is mentioned by my colleague Majkić, we have a senior delegation of Maneval. Recently, during our meeting in the Council of Europe, we met with my colleague, Milica Marković, Saša Magazinović, and my colleague Dervoz, who had the need for us as people representing the state in the Council of Europe, to present to us what the situation in which we are introducing the state of BiH really means and to draw attention to how important it is for us to achieve this, on these principles, how important it is to reach an agreement. So, one position in which BiH will be placed on the grey list, i.e. the list of high-risk countries means that all of our citizens will have a special reporting regime, verification, restrictions on business relations, transactions in BiH, and even a possible interruption of relations with BiH financial institutions with international institutions with which BiH has its special engagement. So it's important that today when we discuss these things we have in mind a few things, so how important this really is. If there are some strategic ones, so I just asked my colleague Majkić to tell me which member is most directly involved in the transfer of jurisdiction, because, let's say, I have completely different information that several things even strengthen entity institutions at the heart of what was in the existing law when it comes to state indiscriminates. So I think that in this sense, therefore, this argument that we have heard today in the direction that this Law should not be passed and it concerns the transfer of jurisdiction I think from what we see in this bill we have a completely different schedule, because, in the current law, SIPA is responsible for the supervision of the debtors, and in this draft law, this responsibility is assigned to the RS finance ministries and the Federation of BiH. And also in the draft of the law, which we have before us, has been strengthened and it is legally possible to increase the capacity of the RS interior ministries and the Federation of BiH, which is actually saying that in a functional sense we have ensured that what is needed to better regulate this area, in accordance with our existing constitutional arrangement, we are in this draft of the law and define the changes. So, here I call on you today to return to the Commission for a statement of this opinion, to give a chance that if they have, if there are some objective reasons that we need to discuss to correct this Law to do so in another reading, but that we are not, today, in fact, in a position to reject this Law, which, as I have just said, is important to all citizens in this country, to every inch of this country, every entity, canton, etc., and important to institutions, both cantonal, entity, and state-level. Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20029	Thank you. MP Milica Marković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd like to say a few of my observations about the bill we're considering today. And before I start with a united discussion, it means from the beginning to the end of the text proposed by the Law, I want to look back not to take a replica later, I didn't want to do it before, to look at a few things that were said here by previous debaters, which I think is unlegal and inappropriate to observe here in this way and to replicate it to my colleagues in the sense that we didn't understand the Law well enough, that this is an interpersonal conflict which is why the Law is being challenged. And that's why I want to tell you what we've read very well and understood the Law and what it says in its ranks and what it says between the lines in this bill's proposal, that's exactly why we're discussing it. It is not a matter of any kind, colleague Magazinović, interpersonal conflicts here, what you have noted from my colleague Majkić, because you heard very well in Strasbourg when our delegation had, as mentioned here, had a conversation with the representatives of Manival in the Council of Europe, that I was then the only representative in the delegation from the RS, you all heard this well, said that for RS this Law is quite controversial and that I am not sure whether SNSD, you were living witnesses and Chile that I said that, and you were then surprised by the team, by this discussion, that I am not sure that the SNSD will support the principles of this Law for several reasons. Of course, I didn't detail and tell them what the reasons were, but here today I'm going to say here from this text that was proposed. First of all, I generally think it is entirely unnecessary for someone here to mention some ex-post mind that representatives, MPs from the RS, have when they discuss this law, or the blacklisting that BiH will come to unless it adopts this law. And if she did, which I doubt will happen, and if she did, it wouldn't be her first time. He Manival the Council of Europe Committee to monitor the fight against money laundering and terrorist activities of all its members, as well as BiH. And if it were to happen that she came to that blacklist for not adopting this law, so three years ago she came to the blacklist of the Council of Europe's Committee for the Monitoring of the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights judgments, so no one is too much, I don't see that she got bored or that he hurried that European Court ruling is being implemented to get off that blacklist. If she comes to this one, this one's not her first time. But to say that this Committee was not representatives of Manival, they were not talking to us about pressure that the law must be adopted, but wanted to discuss what I believe was the case here, about BiH's general activities in the fight against money laundering and terrorist organisations. They know perfectly all about the situation in BiH, how money laundering is done, who are potential terrorist organisations, who deal with these activities, they know all about us, we are before them as an X-ray and they know everything about us. But today, my colleague Majkić here said that for us, this law is controversial for reasons of transfer of jurisdiction. And here, some of them said, let's say what, where's that transfer of jurisdiction. When it comes to the part of the Law relating to the fight against money laundering, so here all activity is focused on the Financial Intelligence Department of the SIPA, which so far had only intelligence character, while the investigative actions on this, all of these activities were conducted by the entity MUPs and the investigative bodies of the Brcko District. Here it is envisaged, or proposed by this Act, that both intelligence and investigative activities be taken over by the Financial Intelligence Department 21st SIPA, and that is, of course, elaborated here in such a way that, with this, with the first, second, third parties, with bonds, in such a way. So, it's a direct transfer of competence that the MUPs entity, I'm interested in the RS MUP, to directly take away this investigative authority and transfer everything to BiH's jurisdiction. The fight against money laundering in BiH is shared activity between BiH and entities. Here it is proposed by this Act that the Ministry of Security prescribes rules on some ex post activities on how this will work. So, the Ministry of Security, in this way, what it says between the lines, is in fact a function of the Ministry of the Interior, which neither has jurisdiction nor is prescribed, nor is authorized to do so. It's a transfer of jurisdiction for us. And yes, when it comes to these two areas, so money laundering, it's true that it's detailedly elaborated here and suggested how, in what way these activities, to fight these activities. But terrorist activities that may be much more dangerous than money laundering are mentioned in that way, by the way, and in a way that predicts that, that terrorist activities will be done in such a way that someone will come to pay into the bank or I don't know through some insurance company of a particular money organization, so now that debtor needs to examine where that money came from, what way and what it's focused on. It's as if terrorist activities are financed through banks and financial institutions in BiH, and we know that 95% of these activities go through illegal routes, or are financed by illegal means. And for me, therefore, as an MP who should vote or not vote for this law, it is disputed that terrorist activity is completely marginalised and neglected and it is a much more dangerous phenomenon for BiH than just money laundering. That's controversial for me. And if seriously and in a responsible way had been approached, then these two activities would, therefore, be treated equally, i.e., in a preventive sense and in terms of sanctioning and the ultimate struggle against it. That's not the case here, so it's mentioned by the way. And that's why I think it's against one and the other phenomena that the entity MUPs are the ones who have to run the gross activity and do their part of the job, which, when it comes to the money laundering department of the economic crime department of the entity, are of course working and running and doing certain activities and doing certain procedures for which they are authorised and prescribed by law, and here they are trying, so that this activity is transferred to the Financial Intelligence Department and that in some way the ministries, the entity ministries are disbursed from it. So, this is the most controversial for us, and no one is disputed here from the SNSD Club that for BiH and this Law, as well as amendments to the Criminal Law, are very important and important from the very fact that BiH is known as, let me say, fertile soil in the centre of Europe for money laundering and terrorist activities. It is certain that there is to a certain extent a connection between these two activities, but I think that terrorist activity in BiH deserves special attention because it produces far greater consequences than who, I don't know, gets some amounts of money and washes it through certain financial institutions, if it works there at all. We of terrorist activities here have human casualties, we have great material damage and we have very serious consequences like a country that is not legally regulated and that simply gets the impression under these activities that it can do whatever it wants and what it wants and how it wants. Of course, as legalists and as representatives of the legislative authority, we want to put an end to it and to, in a way, show it amongst us, and also outside BiH that we are the serious society that he wants, primarily because of himself and his internal reasons, to fight against it and that... The proposal for this law is not to that end and is not so well-conceived that it could produce concrete results and achieve that goal that is wanted in this way. Not to say that this law against money laundering, especially against money laundering, may have been very desirable and current in some previous years and in some previous period when individuals had not washed up millions and millions, made their financial empires and empires, and now someone is proposing such laws so that someone tomorrow, I don't know, would have checked that he had deposited 50,000 in the bank and where that money came from, and before that, someone in this society washed millions, and now we need to think that such individuals really want 22 people in BiH to face such dangerous phenomena as money laundering and terrorist activities. So here are the reasons why my colleague Majkić and I presented concrete reasons, and the biggest reason is to transfer competences from entity MUPs to BiH level and therefore the SNSD Club will not be able to support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20031	Thank you. Replica, Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20032	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, perhaps because of those sitting among us who do not know exactly, we should say that Manival, mentioned today is often the primary mechanism of the Council of Europe for assessing the measures used to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. So it is, among other things, one of those institutions that establishes international principles that we too must manage in BiH. This is not about the principles that we should bring at entity or BiH level to think about that we can have some special and different than those that are generally accepted and international in these very important activities. Mrs. Marković says the law read between the lines. I'm sorry, but we really don't have that ability at the SBB Club, so we'll probably ask what it means -- read between the lines, scare someone off with black lists. I think it should be called first of all, finally admit and responsibly say what our tasks are, not ignore what is obligation and what is what we have to do. Who are we scared of? This is something that will be continuous on our backs in the next period. And as Mrs Marković spoke more seriously of terrorism as something that is not represented in this, let me say that, among other things, the working group that has done these proposals has been managed by the recommendations of the already mentioned Council of Europe and that a special accent has been placed on the fight against terrorism, and this can be seen from reading our assessment of this Law. We believe that it is exactly how we will complement the legal provisions of the existing legal system in BiH and enable the inclusion of comprehensive international measures and standards to prevent and detect terrorist financing in BiH's preventive legislation, that we will improve the effectiveness of the overall system of money laundering and terrorist financing in BiH and the protection of the BiH financial system. It also allows for a more effective fight against organised crime, corruption and terrorism. And what is very important is ensuring a global approach in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in line with international standards and international principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20033	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20034	Well, this is why it's important that we talk about these things, so specifically. A few just refer to this comment by a colleague, i.e. the presentation of a colleague Marković. So, 23 of me in this article that you've just read, about SIPA's relations and the competent ministries, see a completely different schedule. So, according to the way I see it, so I'm going to ask one of the promoters to talk about it, so from his professional... point of view he's talking about these things, so I see that there's a clearer way to co-operate with law enforcement authorities here. So these are entityal, inter alia, entity MUPs and a much larger engagement of the SIPA Financial Intelligence Department to serve and help entity MUPs to deal with these affairs. That's the first thing, then. The second thing, I also support this, as I would say, is that of colleague Marković referring to this part of the terrorist activity. I think we should fix that, too, but let's do it in a second reading. And that's why we need to support the law here today in our first reading and then, after that, to open and strengthen this area that you've just spoken about in terms of terrorist activities. And the third thing that applies to this, your comment that someone washed millions, made empires. So open that discussion, tell them who you are, let's talk about these things too, and I'll be the first of those most direct... to talk about these things and support every righteous package of measures.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20035	Thank you. MP Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20036	My replica is sent to my colleague Dervoz. Since I see colleagues that you often need to discuss someone's discussion, or discuss your colleagues, so today and part of my discussion, I will answer you in the same way. Since there are a lot of fellow doctors here who are warm I recommend you consult them to professionally advise you on what to do with your hearing check. And when you listen to your colleagues, then listen from beginning to end and listen to every sentence they say, and don't listen to a bn skip, and then take your right to comment and paraphrasize what he said. I didn't say that I read between the lines, but I said that we read in the SNSD and the lines and what stands between the lines. So, let me say 200 percent we read it like that and we understand it perfectly, and that's why we're discussing it like that today. And when you listen, it means you wouldn't insult your colleagues with your replicas and your performances and listen from beginning to end and listen well to what they say or do before that. And I should like to say to my colleague Šepić that that is exactly what the problem of this Law is that you need one part, namely the first part of the Law to refer to the fight against money laundering and the second part to terrorist activities, i.e. the fight against such phenomena in society. But the law if it's missing one half of you can't fix it in the amendment phase. This is what the Proposer should have predicted and conjecture it so that it contains in substance everything that he favors, as the Law is called and as it stands in its title, that we could possibly, in some fines or shades, act and say – well, that's what we would possibly consider to give an optimal measure of that law and optimal content. And if the law lacks a whole piece, it means one whole that needs to be represented, because it is only the authority, by the way, mentioned, so there is no amendment phase that can fix such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20037	Thank you. 24 Ismet Dervoz, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20038	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. I have no right to a replica anymore, so I took advantage of the possibility of a discussion that will be very brief. Dear Mrs. Marković, the manner you're talking about me is not unique. So, I cannot answer you in that way, nor would I want to, because that way I would allow myself to contribute to an unauthorized way of communication in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Respecting our good intentions and why we are sitting here in this House I will still consider this to be a matter of your bad mood today. I don't work that way. No Niko from the SBB club will in such a way, discrediting their colleagues in a very unacceptable way, seek to resolve anything in the Parliamentary Assembly. We discuss, express our views, express our opinions, and it is in no way personalised, nor directed against any of the present MPs or MPs. If this is not acceptable for you and if the only way is this kind of aggression then allow you to remain denied for the same answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20039	Thank you. Ambassador Boško Tomić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20040	Thank you very much. Well, we in the RS are trying as hard as possible to point out certain things and say that we are also fighting corruption and crime in the RS and that we are trying to eliminate them in every way. However, here in Parliament whenever it is mentioned that certain things will be regulated at the entity level here, it is immediately considered not good, and we see that what is possible is more and... and we bring down and down to the municipal level, where certain things can be solved. However, there is always only centralised in every sense and in every position. And whether or not to choose words, I think we should be responsible in this House, to respect the views of an entity that is coming. And in particular, there should be a little more sensitivity than those most numerous, I think of those of the Bosniak people, who should take a little more care of that part that people coming from another entity are not treated in such a way that everything that is not at BiH level is not good. Those aren't good messages. I don't think that's how we're going to come to a solution, and a solution here and a compromise is necessary in BiH. Here, in the Federal Republic of Germany, in any country, the mass of legislation is resolved at canton levels or at the level of republics etc. Here everything that is not on BiH level is not good. I think such a practice will lead us into a very difficult position in which we will certainly not come up with quality solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20041	Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20042	Thank you. I must say, here at the end of the discussion it was quite difficult to listen to from one side of the discussion who speaks the language of arguments and on the other hand those who speak so-called. The arguments, but here, let me at the end perhaps propose for this law, but not just in the case of this law. We already have on several occasions, especially lately, cases of laws coming to us in the parliamentary procedure from the Council of Ministers, unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers, etc. And now here's a particularly initiated discussion of fellow Tomić, it might be good if we return this law to the Council of Ministers, because I am now wondering if there are any ministers in the RS Council, because if there is a unanimous law there in which there is a bullet. We obviously have a problem with procedural nature. Secondly, I would like to invite colleagues and colleagues to stop spending on certain arguments that have a specific weight when they see that these others do not listen to you with language and thoughts and arguments of arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20043	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like a few words... but there's no one here right now... Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, I also want to say a few words about this very important law, of course, in favour of the need to adopt a law like this as soon as possible at both home and home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. A very important fact is often forgotten, which is that the BiH state has two strategic foreign-political objectives. These are the EU, EU membership and NATO membership. These are not only foreign-political priorities, it is also a tool for the internal transformation of the BiH state. These strategic goals of BiH were not adopted by revote, we often forget that too, they were unanimously adopted by the competent authority, by the BiH presidency. As long as the BiH presidency doesn't change these strategic foreign-political objectives, I think we should all work in a way that we can implement them as soon as possible. That's what I'm saying because there's often a tendency to transfer jurisdiction around here. I think it would be correct to say that we must all be aware that in this process of our Euro-Atlantic integration. There is something that, I will say, is inevitable, and it is that certain competences with lower administrative and territorial units are being transferred to the level of the BiH state, but we will not stop there either. Anyone who goes deeper into this problem is clear to him that in the coming period there will also be a transfer of competence from the country to the EU and to other institutions as well. It is not just our experience in BiH, such practice was carried out by all those who came to NATO's pact membership and the EU before us. I hope we want to be in this company someday. The second thing, when it comes to this particular law, is that no one here has denied, or at least I have not heard, the fact that this Law, which is also given by relevant people such an assessment, is that it does not comply with European standards, but rather this Law is in line with European directives. And unlike some other laws, he doesn't even ask for any new funding other than our political will to get to one of these laws. I must say, given the fact that the law is in the first reading, it would really be a cardinal mistake not to pass this Law today in the first reading. So I call, here's everything, to see that some colleagues and colleagues have done it before me, to try to adopt this law in the first reading. If we need another 26 phase, we have an opportunity to change the amendment, but this law doesn't fail today at the vote. I must say, given the negative sequences in case this law doesn't go through the whole country, all its citizens and peoples, in this case, as well as many other cases, it would be good to have a little more activation of those who are the creators of the Dayton constitutional and legal solutions. Those who created the Dayton Peace Accords created Annex IV. In BiH, the way it is, it is evident that this Annex IV must be observed in an integrated manner with aneks X.. This concludes the debate on the fifth item of the agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Proposal of the Law on the Holidays – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (the law in the first reading). The Kolegijum failed to agree on the bill's proposal in the first reading, so here we are having a debate. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Border Control – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20046	Here, this is the second law and we manifest on it how much we are able to discuss and remove something that can change. So, this Law treats many areas of border control, crossing state border, border crossings, border line, border guard(?) the area, transmission and control of weapons transfer, ammunition, etc. Now, the Ministry of Security wouldn't be the Ministry of Security if it didn't make the same doorknob 22 that says something should be taken without being seen so directly. Article 19. The law on border control, i.e. the addition of Article 3 to that Article, as well as the amendment of Article 62(1), which adds point (b) to point (c), is contrary to the applicable rules governing matters of public order and peace as well as constitutional competences in the RS. I remind you that jurisdiction in public order and peace is an entity's jurisdiction. And when a case occurs at the border requiring police intervention, if it is within the jurisdiction of the RS police, then let's say the Gradiška border crossing calls on the RS MUP to intervene at the border. This, at 27, by adding these two members, is now given to the Border Police. I asked the Director of the Border Police where this came from, and the man told me, he really didn't participate, there were some of his people who controlled it there, participated in the work, but they didn't record such mistakes, they might not even have suggested it. So it's clear that this thing is coming from the Department of Security again. We gave positive, so we voted for principles on condition that these two amendments were deleted from the bill. If these two amendments are not deleted, the law will experience fate as before.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20047	Thank you. No more, MP Senad Šepić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20048	Thank you very much. So this law that we have before us we will support from the SDA Club in the first reading. We will have some reactions, and we expect the proposaler to prepare our comments by the next session, and in some ways answer questions that are a dilemma for us. We have several dilemmas relating to some vague members and unclear positions within this bill itself. So here it is mentioned that the airline can be a physical person. We have one dilemma – whether the airline can be a physical person. It is not clearly defined how it is crossed, or what documents are needed to cross the state border. Instead of that term in the previous law, a term of valid travel documents is put in place which does not in any way define the clear position of those people who are located and who live in these border areas and those who have so far used these border passes. And there's also a part that applies here, so I'm asking the Proposer, so to follow these discussions, to sort of take them into consideration, there's a part that relates and that says that individuals or groups of persons can cross the line if there's a special need of a particular species. So this is pretty vague what this is really a special species, who appreciates this particular species, how, on the basis of which this is done, on which it is determined, so in what capacity one of these members can apply, etc. So, in this sense, we would like to invite colleagues from other clubs to support the Law in the first reading because it primarily refers to the amendment of Article 36, i.e. a new member of the Law that is being added and which should be an answer to our position when it comes to a partnership for peace. But these discrepancies that exist in the law, so here they are through the amendment phase, which we will propose from the SDA Club, will also be the condition of our final commitment to this Law, and I expect that the Proposer in that sense prepares quality answers in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20049	Thank you. Are there any other MPs who want to discuss it? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth item of the agenda, 28 Ad. 8. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest – Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. We're going to the ninth point, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20052	Thank you, Chairman. Since at the next session we will discuss the very documents proposed by this Interim Joint Commission, therefore to the Rules of Procedures and Representatives here and at the House of Peoples in the Second House, I will really say only a few things very briefly, everything else is in the Report. At the very beginning, I would like to thank the people who are not members of the Commission whom this House has appointed and who have actively participated in the work. These are primarily representatives of the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Foundation Konrad Adenauer Foundation, OHR, EU delegations to BiH, OSCE and USAID that have helped to work, not only in search of concrete solutions, but also through material and technical assistance. I'll just say two sentences. First, the principle that we had at the beginning of this working group was that what we could agree on was going into the new rules of procedure of both homes, what cannot stay outside and waiting for some better time. What am I saying this for? Because I believe that a great deal of work has been done, that members of all parties have made a really great effort to agree on some of the things that we thought would go very hard and that people worked in good faith and very stepwise towards each other. I will stop here, everything else is in the report itself, noting that we will discuss the specific texts of the Rules of Procedure at the next session of both the Representatives and the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20053	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 29 First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that I was a member of this Commission and to confirm what Mr Magazinović was just saying, that this is certainly one indicator of how in good faith and with responsibility can be done in the Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in relation to such an important and valuable task that we had before us. I just want to point out that as a member of the Commission, I have singled out my opinion on a topic and a problem. I felt it was necessary to adopt, include documents relating to the achievement of gender equality in the bodies and equality in the language, which is used in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly documents. Since today, as far as I know, on the agenda of the Joint College, it is precisely the discussion of documents concerning the completion of the work of the Working Group on Equality in Language, and as Mr Magazinović said, at the next session we will discuss this in more detail, I call once again on this to consider and say our positive position, I hope, and thus ensure the exclusion of discrimination concerning representation, gender equality in bodies and what concerns the native sensitive language in the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20055	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20056	Gentlemen chairman. I congratulate the Commission first and foremost on the extensive work it has done and I believe this is a very, very big job that has been done. But I also believe that the House of Representatives and certainly the House of Peoples should make every effort to adopt these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, namely to adopt the new Rules of Procedure in this assembly, otherwise as soon as we go closer to electoral activities, we may also fail to achieve this objective. I also thank you for the agility of the Commission, which has asked for the opinion of... each MEP individually and the commission. We've worked with these proposals, there's another proposal that I will personally send as an MP when we consider this amendment phase, so we'll have opportunities, I'm sure, that we have a Rules of Procedure that's much more quality than the previous one. It has been shown in the previous 8 years that he requires certain changes, at least in one convocation, and... a case in two calls... I think that there are more reasons and needs for the efficiency of the work of the House of Representatives, given the number of Members elected in this House of Representatives. It would be important that the Rules of Procedure, as the most significant, conditionalally speaking, be as effective and operational as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20057	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 10th point, Ad. Ten. Consideration of the SDP MPs' initiative from the 61st session of the House, held on 30.12.2013, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), the SDPBiH MPs' Club submits an initiative in charge of the 30 BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House of Representatives to establish a temporary commission of the House of Representatives to determine the total consumption of budget money on behalf of income and privileges arising from the performance of their duties in BiH institutions. We propose that, as part of the agenda of the session, the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be included a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a temporary commission of the House of Representatives to determine the total consumption of budget money on behalf of incomes and privileges derived from the exercise of duties in BiH institutions." In accordance with Article 8, an initiative is put in charge of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to set up a temporary commission of the House of Representatives to determine the total spending of budget money on incomes and privileges that take place on the basis of their duties in BiH institutions. As the committee responsible, the College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget. The committee in charge delivered its opinion on the initiative on 05.02 and supported the initiative and addressed it in the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20059	I thank the chairman. As at the last point, I will try to say very briefly a few indications concerning this initiative, and a team before we had, as you said, already debated the competent commission. So, this is an initiative that was addressed last year, but because of, here are some recent developments, it was the second half of February to come forward. So, the fact that this was initiated last year says that this initiative is not the reason for recent events, although what has been initiated today through parliamentary issues and regarding the costs among other things, which are part of the costs covered by this initiative, is something the Finance and Budget Commission has also suggested to be one of the results of this Commission's work. I would like to thank the Commission for the funding and the budget which very seriously considered this initiative, called a session where this was the only item of the agenda and in one way gave its suggestion that, apart from transparency, which is the objective of this initiative, work should also result in measures to streamline costs, which is also the intensity of the SDP Club that is the proposing. From the very text of the initiative, and before you were familiar with the fact that we have already discussed this, the Commission would have been tasked with establishing the total amount of spent budget money in the last seven years, or the last two terms of office, on behalf of income, to be careful not to pay but to the income of those who are the subject of this initiative, as well as all other privileges. I will remind you, this concerns the members of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly, the directors of all institutions and the management of social servants. When it comes to the above, apart from what their different acts have established rights, we have asked through this initiative to add to each of those entitled to the twenty-four-hour use of official cars, as another of the additional information, the cost of costing cars at the time of purchase. I don't need to list all the benefits and what all the receipts mean, that's what you have in the initiative. What is new compared to the previous ones is also the head of state officials. Since it is not my word, but a lot of colleagues have said that not 31 can be opened, not to find any of the on-call government officials appointed, ask Bog where, so why not have that part of transparency represented as well. It is also proposed that this Commission works for free, and it is our assessment that this job can be completed within a very short period of 7 to 10 days and that all political parties should participate in it. Finally, I would like to say that the transparency of Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, when it comes to these matters has never been questioned, but in other institutions and authorities, it will certainly not harm the additional degree of transparency, in the way Parliament has shown it. And, what I want to say in the end, and that is what we have discussed at the Finance and Budget Commission, that at the moment this initiative is adopted, it becomes the property of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not any political party or individual, no matter who has any relationship with it. And in that sense, I invite you to support her.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20060	Thank you. Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, before this initiative came along and it lasts and is focused on the interest of many NGOs, so-called. NGOs, they're going to do a digression that three or four years ago, I asked the Council of Ministers for information, although they can't determine, that there's approximately how many NGOs exist here, what kind of NGOs they are, what their goal is, who's funding it. It's quite clear, the three of them, the four, open up a website of any government abroad and just see if they give money and they immediately declare themselves an NGO, so they put it up on display, where in a second man can't even notice how much it's changing, and as a result, consumption is huge, we're to blame for this, for that. But, in addition to this initiative, I don't know if my colleagues are watching, whether they're interested, but, well, I happen to have come across it, and I don't want to attach any importance to them, to say which three portals have published all the names of MPs from the House of Representatives and delegates in the House of Peoples, of course without any minister, without any director of the Directorate, without anyone else, but we are all. So what's standing there now? In addition to the name of one of my colleagues and colleagues, if the president of the commission is standing – he uses the phone so much and so much, he uses the car unlimitedly, paused, if that's special. Well, in this country, the most important thing is this so-called. The white bread, like no one eats black bread, and we're all black and it looks like these guys are on their way. I'd be ashamed if I couldn't get 5,000 people together for a quiet deal. And there's 1,000 of them, and they're some kind of prey. Listen to the prey. What prey and how, gather people, boring to some of course, some have reasons, but I've never heard that the tide requires a conversation with any of us here are the elected politicians. And they're now looking for some expert government, as if there's a country anywhere in the world that the government is choosing someone at a crossroads without the parties participating in the election. Are there any states that don't have parties in that country? There isn't. And the kingdoms and the kingdoms, and the king asks there some, and in the one-party system, which I remember well, and then they took care of national representation. Here, rest their souls, that someone also remembered them because three of them, in that state, Branko Mikulić, president of the CK, Hamdija Pozderac, president of the Assembly, and Milanko Renovica, president of the Executive Council. Three nations represented and then. But next to my name stands as if someone had chosen, I was just watching it, interestingly, Slavko Jovičić's MP – a pauser, I don't know, 736 KM. It's like a secret. But these portals are racing, they're right, I don't dispute it, that in the law on the availability of information they're looking for information, and they can't wait for our service to deliver it to them, and 32 of what the people would say to the dwarves. So you're all... you're all from college first. That you are the owners of this country, that you have so many privileges that you can do whatever you want. To alienate even a car parliamentary that has been put to your favor by law and by the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to do so. But there they wrote that it was yours. So man wonders if anyone really fits in this country? This initiative, I would now support it if it wasn't a populist initiative in terms of special purposes because it was in a pre-election campaign. Well, I've had enough of both pre-election and post-election and various campaigns, and I don't know what, privilege. I've never seen anyone go to the cashier's office and say, "Come on, man, I'm not going to take a shower, I'm not getting a paycheck, I'm not getting a hot meal, I'm not going to do anything, I'm giving up everything." I have not heard such that the elected official appeared, regardless of being an MP, a delegate, a minister, an assistant, a deputy, I do not know who has every right either. So when a man sees there what they write, and there's no way like Erdogan to say – stop the Internet, you can't publish what we don't approve. Eh, I wish there was that opportunity, and then they'd say I'm a dictator, so I'm asking to shut it down for everyone here. I'm asking that information be published correctly here. That's correct information. But you won't find any directors there, as there are in the press, that receive 25,000 marks of a higher salary, that one received 44,000, etc. etc. So I was just talking here about this, the Internet, because the Internet is a miracle. It's a miracle what they're doing there and how they're just being organized and what they're doing, and I'd support everything they're looking for. Here, today there was an initiative from my colleagues to cut wages, cut this, here's everything we're going to cut, but on the condition that the plowers pay 100 million marks of damage that they've destroyed and burned. Who are the plowers? I'm asking our institutions to come out with names. But I'm not the prosecutor or the judge that I judge them. Can they pay 100 million marks of damage to what they've done in this print of destruction of property? May I? He won't pay for it. They're hiding, and it's their fault that distinguished professor and MP Božo Ljubić is asking for what he asked for, and put me there together if you don't mind that I'm with you too, that's what we're looking for on the list. So, the essence of the whole story, like you don't know what my salary is, like you don't know how much I take for a hot meal, like you don't know how much I take for a ride. It's all familiar here. And here my neighbor knows more than this initiative is going to go into procedure for us to form a committee. But here's how most people vote, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20062	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. You have 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20063	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not gonna spend it for sure. It's only a third of the time. Well, let me just say that my colleague Boško and I, we've been on the Commission and we've been held back when it comes to this initiative, because really when you take it like this, it sounds very nice and it's just as populist, means who said it, I agree here completely, but I definitely think we're going to get back in a position to talk about parlament and parliamentarians, as my colleague Slavuj said, and that's no longer a problem. There's no newspaper that's written any more, and I don't know how many times, believe me, here's a doubt that any of us here have anything to hide. Believe me, I don't have any burdens either, let it be written, so that's how it is and just make it real, so in that writing, there's no problem. The problem is only when some lies are brought out. 33 As for that part of transparency, I would agree with my colleague Magazinović, for he also explained it on the Commission. But since we think it's populist, for that very reason, that here, let's once again write what kind of money it is, etc. Transparency is not disputed, here I am always for transparency, I have no problem, but what about a moment called consistency? I am responsibly telling you that there are BiH institutions that report to us and that we, let's say, are the dignitaries here, who absolutely don't do anything, have not written one single letter, they haven't, they haven't hurt anywhere in years. Here, we're not going to investigate who it is, we're going to form a commission, three that are such, the worst, we're going to end it. Here, I suggest it, right now. Behind them, the three who are the worst, whoever is, the Srbin, the Hrvat, the musliman, the others, or no matter who, we will replace the director with express, express, means someone who is at the head of the institution. We'll do it right away. Eh, if we're going to be transparent, I suggest we be consistent. But no, so we're going to talk about transparency, we're going to talk about what we have about ourselves, or we're going to leave it to the NGO that they're doing some more jewelry and we're going to stop there somewhere. No, let's do this. So we have a lot of institutions that spend a lot of money, that don't do absolutely nothing, that absolutely exist, and I still don't know why, although here I sit for months in this room, I believe that many of us don't know, except to be our own purpose. Let's respect this principle, let's be consistent, let's end everything that doesn't work. If he's doing this on the municipal level, if he's staying on the municipal level, on the cantonal level, in entity, if he's not working on the state level, we need to discuss it, we need to put an end to it urgently. We need to cut costs that way, urgently. And I think that would be consistency. And I ask you, if you want to get, to give this initiative support give it a moment of consistency. It's not just transparency. This transparency comes out by name and last name, in line, from the MPs who have the highest income to the one who has the lowest. And it goes through all the papers and Bog knows how many times. I think that in this way we can, I'm not going to say excuse, but simply satisfy ourselves more in that context that we are not the worst. There are far, far, far worse ones than we are, although we do not enjoy in the eyes of the NGO, meaning someone of great trust that we are too valuable, even though we sit in this room every once in a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20064	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20065	I thank the chairman. Once again, just to point out Slavko, to his exposure, yes, but for a positive example, I want to point out that there are those that you said were gone, that you didn't see them. Our representative or MP, Dr. Kabil, doesn't receive any pay marks or pay gaps. He gives all his coeds to students, like all the other representatives of the Alliance for a Better Future, all the co-eds are given to students. And the minister, the minister, receives, Radončić only receives one pay mark. There is, and that's not the point now, let other examples be cited, we can't say there are no examples. But we can be the same as before, that MPs are absolutely not professional representatives, that we have a College that can be professional, that it's an honor, with certain fees that are for travel expenses. We have a situation when it was like that. In this House, there were absolutely no professionals before the war. It was rare who were on board. They worked, but it is necessary to provide the prerequisites that in his workplace, there are days off, when he is at meetings and when he is at certain activities. We're just going to be dealing with pulsism here probably around this part because this part of the 34 whole situation forced us to do it. It is true that such a situation is in the economy, in public enterprises where they are given a lot more, and MPs are the most hit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20066	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20067	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supporting what your esteemed colleague Đugum said, but it doesn't say on those portals that you just said. If it says so, I would say right away -- it's good for the BiH Party MPs, this, not BiH, but a better future, but good, it's the same. And so are they. So, I'm going to include them now, and Professor Azra Hadžiahmetović is not professionally directly bound in Parliament, but don't rephrase this, I accidentally mentioned you because he was not, so consider it a lapus, but rather not take you on this one, rather, let's take you as a positive example. But it doesn't say there. There is about to point out – these thieves from the House of Representatives, these little or little more, thieves, delegates in Parliament. And these thieves who are countless, they're nowhere to be found. That's the point, causing chaos. And now it all comes down to the biggest problem of BiH, and these demonstrations that were shared by these plowers, white bread. So they come in and they take, I don't know what, and they come in from other cities and they're 50 blocks away so I can't come back today. And the other day, I'm going to check it out, I have to, I'm having health problems, and I can't get over it, and I'm lucky, so I saw from 100 meters that they blocked down the road, so I could come back and not catch me there yet. Now that's the problem of this country, not what's going to be transparent and written on their website. Well, I didn't say they should write affirmatively. Let them write everything negative. If there are, but let them write truthfully, true to write only. He can't write to any MP that his salary is 8,000 marks, when we all know it's not, but it says there. He can't write to the MP that the MP is receiving, I won't say what names, let them all ask, that he receives more than 12,000 various receipts in Parliament. Well, that's crazy. They challenge and invite people, who of course don't love us, and they chose us, so I didn't say that they chose us out of love, but in polling places, but they cause even more and only heat up the accident and cause riots. And now that this is done like this, whoever comes there and says: "Down is the power they can't wait." Of course, so is raditi Šerbedžija. It's an honor to him, instead of making movies, and I loved him, and he came along as something, and he put on a hat and he gave some support. He should have come a million times to support the film about BiH, to promote us somewhere where he has some opportunities, but he has come to support the plowers, and 150 of them have gathered. If I ever organize a demonstration or a rally, if I don't raise 1,000 people, I'll never show up in public again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20068	Thank you. Replica, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20069	Well, you see, there's something in the focus here that's just a small part of this whole story, and obviously, if we discussed this last year, when this was otherwise suggested, to discuss in a different tone. I mean, it doesn't have anything to do with the tides or anything, and it's like 35 things to do with the debate. MPs' salaries are the tenth part of this whole story, and apparently we look back at them the most. And I'm gonna, I'm gonna have to do a few things just to try and explain. A colleague, Jovičić, said everyone has the right to information, but he has a problem with the fact that it's only about the MPs. Well, it's not, it's not. So, this initiative is least relevant and we have already said that the transparency of Parliament compared to all other institutions is unnecessary and speaking, since these are information that is available to everyone. How anyone uses them is really the thing of whoever does it. I'd say I'd support this if it wasn't populist. So, come on, you suggest, so let it be populist, and I will support you. It's not about who suggested it. It's about getting this data. And as 100 people are the richest, i.e. with the largest incomes in the Federation published, as I see these days speaking in the RS, let's see who these people are at BiH level. counterpart Bursać says -- this is an initiative where the story of Parliament and parliamentarians will be brought again. I mean totally the opposite. So, once again, I call on us to deal with the essence of this initiative that speaks of costing from the budget of all those who act. A fellow Bursać, about you, and about me and everyone else, everyone knows everything. But there's a lot of things the public doesn't know, and he needs to know. And I agree with some of the things you suggested on the bottom of the conclusions, because I invite you to join this group, suggest there, I guarantee you that it will pass. Of course, you need to support the initiative before that. I wouldn't want to get the impression of anyone here trying to find a reason why these things don't go public and this way protect people who cost a lot of budgets, and what the public don't know about. And one thing is that whoever's setting up their receipts, and that's his individual decision, and the other thing is whether they're tall or not. I'm really not going to fall into a trap to say how the members of the SDP Club are deploying their incomes, because I don't think it would be right for those who are being helped in some way, because real help is when you help a man without anyone knowing it, not when you help and announce it. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20070	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20071	I thank the chairman. It's more of a suggestion question, so maybe later on depending on the answer, I'll answer the question, but I have some questions. What's the term of privilege? I'd like to be explained what that means. In a termological sense, who set it, who interpreted it and what it is, who determined something called privilege. One is legal terms, belonging to things, or based on regulations and laws, and privilege is something else. So let's see, but maybe I don't understand things. It means I'm being told a termologically what a notion of privilege means. The second thing, if it is said that it is going to expand, that this is not a list committee, the SNSD will not participate in the list committee, so if all of this can be obtained about us, we have everything. And I don't think anyone should argue with any transparency of work. What can't be obtained from this? It's a very big problem that an individual MP or a journalist can't get any of this. I'd like to be told what's not allowed. If we have that in our hands and we have it all, so why make it a list committee now, if we have it. If we don't, then that's the problem. If someone doesn't allow it, hides it, and they don't know any of it, then the problem is. But let's see that. I think 36 in the Prlament is written, and let it be written, and we have no problem with that. All that is written, we appeal, of course, that it is not a lie and untrue information that is not presented, but any accurate information must be available. But now we don't need to be additionally parrots involved in something everyone knows, that we're forming a commission now because we don't have much to do. And what is the most significant remark, it is said to be extended, is not only in Parliament. I agree here. And here's the story of BiH institutions. Why did the promoter exempt certain institutions? Why don't you say there's no Central Election Commission, as BiH institutions, so let's say, I apologize if I didn't, because you listed me here, correct me so if I'm wrong, this is about officials, officials and you've listed agencies. The Central Election Commission is not an agency. So you see, why did you exclude the Court and the Prosecutor's Office as BiH institutions? Well, wait. So, about what you suggested I know everything. What's wrong with me can I get in two hours, at least I think I can, maybe I'm wrong. And I don't know anything about those things you didn't suggest. How can a court worker make 12,000 at a seminar? That's what we keep quiet about. But every five days we will crucify Slavko Jovičić, whom they have already crucified, or me, or anyone else. And third thing, what is this commission's intention? If you write a sentence that says, we MPs of the House of Representatives, who have done everything we can not change anything from what it says, we ask for it. If you put that sentence on, I'll vote Bianko, but put that sentence on. We've done everything to make sure none of this changes. So once again, we inform you for the hundredth time how it is. Now that you've forgotten, here's what we've done fine, we've written and done. Here, this list committee has been warned for a hundred more times that this...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20072	Thank you. The line's long gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20073	I'm done. Here are my questions, Proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20074	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, also a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20075	Thank you. But I was worried, because I agreed with my distinguished colleague Kalabić, something doesn't seem to be good. I'm just kidding. I have to refer to what Honorable colleague Magazinović said was not about the populist initiative. If this initiative were to bear perhaps the title of the conclusion on the establishment of a temporary commission, etc., without reading, with a proposal for measures, I would understand. If this initiative had come at the beginning of this mandate from the SDP as a party in power, or if it had come last year at this time before the budget was formed, I would have understood and said it is not populist. All that is stated in this initiative can be obtained through one parliamentary question addressed to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, where all these data exist. And we even had everything here, I remember well, I think that one of our colleagues from the U.S.A. asked a parliamentary question about receiving directors and that we got a complete list, maybe seven, eight months ago. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20076	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20077	My apologies, dear colleague Jurišić. But we had all that information. Come on, we'll have, we'll crucify someone, we'll crucify the Parliament, we'll crucify the directors, we'll crucify the ministers, we'll see which ministers they use... in airports, etc., and we'll get caught. But what's the effect? Are we going to cut the budget, are we going to make a commitment to cut the budget to all those who are wasteful? Should we commit to shutting down those agencies that have no purpose, let's say the BiH concessions Commission, which spent eight million marks in eight years and made three decisions, and has 20 employees. Here, let the SDP change that part of the decision and we have no problem having binding conclusions to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20078	Thank you. Dear colleague, Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20079	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I am already the second term of office in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I have listened and I have seen all sorts of proposals and all kinds of initiatives, so I am not surprised that we have also received this initiative. So normally this, probably the first time I've heard it, I couldn't wonder what the goal is, what it wants, what the message, for which purposes it can, should be used, and a hundred other questions. And I wouldn't do much about the initiative, but about the rush, about how to race how to explain to all the public that this Parliamentary Assembly is an unnecessary institution, that it's an excessive institution, because it's so expensive that no one smart should accept that it exists. And this, and normally all the other parliaments in this country, and then according to that and the governments that these parliaments are choosing, because what democracy is going to cost us when it costs so much. She's a really expensive party for a poor country like this. And since we already have the Office of the High Representative, so we have the authority, we won't trap the government, if we cancel all these institutions, we just have to formalize, so this, forced administration in this country, or some nicer name, and say that all these institutions are disbursed and there's no cost. On all these costs for which, as a matter of fact, this Commission should be formed, there are budgets that are published in the Official Messenger, there is a Freedom of Information Act, and so far whoever wanted to be alive could have received any requested information. counterpart Kalabić asked the question of the meaning of the word privilege. In this proposal the conclusion of counterpart Kalabić, here you have seen, means that it is a privilege if some employee who happens to be managing a civil servant has a warm meal. To be honest, I don't know how hot a meal is now in BiH institutions, 4, 5, 6 marks, but let's just say that in BiH's Elektroprivreda is 20 KM. In this Elektroprivred, which owes us 200 million taxes, which is managed by the sovereign SDP as a political party, the government does not manage. So, Elektroprivred BiH is managed by the SDP of BiH and there are offering a warm 20 KM meal. The plant managers have higher salaries there than members of the BiH presidency. But we won't talk about it. Let's let the people have a little fun with the MPs, the members of the presidency, the members of the government, so they don't remember that in this country public companies are destroying this country, because when they don't pay taxes and contributions then they're making it impossible for people in the Women's and Dobby Canton, 38 in Tuzlan Canton, to have quality health care. Who authorized them to do that? Well, let's entertain them with stories about cobwebs, let's entertain them with stories about wages, and that's already familiar. Who instructed whom, who paid for the public to entertain these things. Because the workers of Konjuh and other robbed companies do not care how many ministers there are in the government or representatives of the Cantonal Assembly. He's interested in who allowed the criminal privatisation to take place. What wasn't stopped, what wasn't stopped, who was melting there with whom? It interests him, and he's angry at everyone and everyone, because someone who should've done his job didn't do his job. How is it possible in this country for someone to gain a fortune of a few hundred million marks in ten years and not to be in jail and pay taxes disproportionately, and there are data about it, how is that possible? And we have institutions to do that. Instead, instead of asking these institutions to do so, to return to the people stolen, let's direct them to parliaments, because then parliaments will deal with themselves. He's not gonna do what we need to do. I would like us in this Parliament, and in all the other parliaments, to have debates every day until we get things out to the clearing who led to this particular, and from these people names, who led us to have this many criminal privatisations, precisely, personally, regardless of who it was. Who are those who owe over 300 million KM, actually 400 million for indirect taxes? How was it possible to collect so much tax, so much debt, besides all these institutions? How can someone owe $200 million? So that's not clear to me. I'd like to, maybe it's clear to someone. As it is even possible that the company exists normally and has a warm meal of 20 marks and that the managers of the plant have 7, 8 thousand marks of salary, not tax, do not pay contributions to health insurance. And you can think of someone who doesn't pay, doesn't pay the people who are the hardest in this country, who earn bread underground, the miners. It's a shame. And I've been, like, a hundred times and I'm going to say it again, but it's interesting with all these powerful institutions so nobody can deal with it, let's deal with the MPs. I won't, because this, this initiative is a replacement of thesis, from trying to have fun on our own so we don't have to deal with what we can do, and that's why I won't support...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20080	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20081	This is your second, whether you need it or you'll wait for the others to say what they have. Come on, you're the second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20082	You see, I have no intention of really getting involved with anyone else anymore. In the end, I suppose everyone already has their say of voting, but I am obliged for the correctness of my colleague Kalabić, who has asked several questions and concerns very correctly, on behalf of the club that is proposing to answer these questions. The first question is, whatever the term of privilege is. Not to spend a lot of time writing in the initiative itself, and don't be a reason not to support what you might disagree with the formulation. Here, you suggest how it stands I'll accept. As for the Central Election Commission, the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office and the need to know about what budget money this institution has, or how much it costs to act as judge, prosecutor, member of the Central Election Commission, I sign this story immediately. And believe me, it's not meant to be left out, and why not. If we're talking about transparency, people need to know that 39. As far as your other proposals are concerned, I expect this Commission to come up with the conclusions that you have proposed as a fruit of its work. And I sincerely hope that you are not part of those who will stop this story by looking for excuses that we could have heard through the discussion of some others. As for colleague Pandurević, you have once again shown your surface. If I had allowed myself to come out of this commission's work with conclusions, at least five people here would say that I have communist manners that put conclusions on the table before any debate is held and something is concluded. So, I won't allow it myself, but it looks like others are allowed to perform that way. However, what you have proposed to reduce budget allocations and similar measures, I, immediately tell you I support and call on you, here you are, be a member of this committee and suggest it. All that Parliament adopts will be so, and here I am saying that I will personally support it. Finally, counterpart Lozančić gave a speech with which he wanted to say what he knew he wanted to say, but this is an initiative concerning BiH level, the BiH institution. I will remind you that an identical initiative to this was adopted in the Federal Parliament and, among other things, opens the space to be, not based on speculation, but on concrete data and from public enterprises, to do so. And I really don't want this discussion to continue in this direction and it turns out that there are a number of people sitting here who put themselves in the first place and expose themselves to the public, while protecting those who are the most destructive. Because as long as the debate goes on, I see that there are people here who actually want to protect the most destructive. If anyone wants to protect themselves, I won't draw any conclusions, let each judge it for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20083	Thank you. The following came to the discussion by distinguished counterpart Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20084	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I had the need to report, meaning for a discussion on this initiative of the BiH SDP Protectors Club, when it comes to spending the funds of the BiH Budget and the privileges that come out of the behaviour of different duties of representatives, the Council of Ministers, officials, etc. I don't mind this initiative, but I'm not sure if we're going to implement this initiative and adopt these conclusions that we're going to get something from it. So in order to do something you have to do for yourself exactly in the task, the exact task, because there are people here who are very educated, who have also been scientifically perfected and they know exactly, means when they take a topic for some work, and here it's a very complex topic, what they want to get from that topic in the end and what are the conclusions. Here on the costs and privileges, she mentioned a colleague, and I asked a representative question about how many receipts are, so total receipts. We mix here, we mix up the concepts of wages and incomes. You know exactly what our salaries are from 4,300 to 4,600, and you're chairing 800, I don't know how much, exactly. I don't know, they go out to 6,300, 6,700, 6 and something. So ours, all of us here sitting in these benches are monthly incomes from 6,000 to 7,000 KM.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20085	That's not true. 40 _________(?) Show me that salary. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20086	Paushal, no, no, you have a cochlean, you love it on the committee. Show me that salary, please. No, no, I'm sorry, please, pay 4,300, you have a flat 800, you're working on commissions 400 and something, you've got a warm meal, so figure out how much. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20088	Are we going to be able to discuss between the benches to take a break so we can clear it up or continue this way by giving a word to some colleagues?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20089	We'll keep going, we'll keep going. Here, once we figure it out, we'll ask what we're gonna do with that data. I've had one chance here, when we've had audit reports and reports here, reports of the Derk service, where,... people in BiH, those who sit don't know what Derk is, so maybe half of us don't know, I don't even know what their role is, the right to tell you that I don't know what the role is, last time we had their report, and I personally asked, here were the director and the deputy, what are your salaries. He said coefficient 7 point a few times this, that he said at 4,200, about 4,500, we saw that they dropped out of those 100 there that have some, at least in the public opinion that came out, that their receipts were 6,500. So they lied to us. What is their effect because they get 6,500 showers, which BiH citizens pay for, I really don't know. Here, if we do, then we get all this data, and then based on that data when we get it, we need to come to a certain conclusion on what we're going to do with it, what we're going to do with it. Whether we're going to cut those receipts, cancel it, but we already know about it, not just a month ago, from two days ago, but we know that these receipts are so much, but since we've been here in these parliamentary benches. And when they say here, people say what they are, here's a fellow Kalabić, what are the privileges? Well, there are many privileges. One of those privileges is, here's the use of a vehicle for 24 hours. We often say that, I don't know either, Denmark, Switzerland, the Swedish government have by, I don't know, 5 cars, 10 cars, 25. So here, let's see the ruling majority here, the Council of Ministers is, let's take away those privileges from each other, so that you, the chairman and chairman, don't use cars for 24 hours, don't go to weddings with them, don't go to sea with them, don't go to the mountains with them, put more skis up there, I've seen these ministers put up and ski, darkened glass. Well, it's privileges, it's power of power. Then you can't see this misery on the street, because we think everything is so great with us and through those dark glass, right, so buy yourself a car, buy yourself a car. And what else is the problem? What the privileges say and this white bread or bread, so there are half of us ministers, of various, of cantons, of the Federation, of the state, 41 who don't know when the mandate ends, where they have nothing to do, are not professional for anything, they don't work anywhere. So that's the problem, too. Then you are at all costs fighting for these privileges. So I'm saying, I would support these conclusions if we knew when we got these numbers, now that I'm telling you, I have so many receipts, what about my receipts? Reduce them, reduce them, I don't know either me or any of us. But for our receipts, it's very interesting. For them, the entire public in BiH knows, these are not secrets. But the problem is precisely at lower levels or these agencies no one knows about alive. Here, we had a "Switzerland" protest. The Director of the Banking Agency shall receive 9,000 marks. Nobody knows him except the apartment building, nobody knows him alive. And no one will point at him alive, and in her colleague Dušanka Majkić, they know her, she's often on TV, she says – so she has her mother, I don't know 6, 7,000 marks, and nobody knows this one alive. And maybe they'll attack her or any of us, I say. Now, these are the meanings of the ruling structure, I can do, not just for the state level, if we are the ruling structure and at lower levels, then we need to even the income, and that seems that the central salary, or the average salary in BiH, is the basis for what can be the highest wage, or the highest income. This can be used by the ruling majority now, both at entity levels and at cantons in this House, to make those receipts an average salary of around 3, 4, 5, but as estimated. It's absurd that we have in public enterprises today, there's the biggest crime, that we have a warm meal that's more than an average salary in the Federation for 20 marks. And no one's talking about it. So, a warm meal that's 20 marks higher than the Federation's average pension at the level of the month. And we're saying we're socially sensitive. Our border policeman, our SIPA member, our OSA member, is enough 6 marks for a warm meal, and in public enterprises, here I know in the Federation, about 15,000 employees, they have a warm meal of 15, 16 and 17 KM. The government is the same at the state level, the same at the Federation of BiH level. If I say that's the problem, that's the problem. But I'm just going to mention a little bit more in the context, one part of it is for me, the citizens of BiH, says if there's money, there's money, it's only badly distributed, and for what we don't have no one is responsible and no one's been processed for it. If the Federation of BiH Railways bought trains or compositions that can't be driven along the railroad and that's why no one's missing hair from their heads, so where's the government? Where's the government, the SDA, the SDP and all of them? So, the public guy and the guy bought 5, 6 train compositions, so we're gonna, we're the only ones who rent trains to Turkey. It's okay, here's what I'm not sure is Minister Bijedić, so 150 million marks, my child returns that loan. There's no railroad near Livna 300 km anywhere and they're returning that loan, what we are, what someone picked up and bought those trains and took a commission, what we talked about about the Public Procurement Act, etc. I can see the time. I've made several points here, the BiH Federation Terminals 15 million marks we paid because someone broke the contract and no one's hair is missing. SDP personnel are protected, SDA personnel are protected, no one was responsible for that. And we're talking here to figure out how many of us we have. 15 million marks we paid, we all here, and my child paid for someone's irresponsibility because we lost the dispute at the international court in neither do I. I mentioned here and the legal services that are 6 million kuna, so we saw in the show one that the owner of the law firm from Zagreb said it was a requirement to pay a million and a half kuna in the first year, and the next 4 million kuna to be paid in 3 years. No, our guys ran out of here to pay for it all at once for all those six million kunas. They know what they paid for at once, not in a three-year period. There are essential problems for which we here, not that we have no solutions, we have solutions, but we need to solve them in a bold, cultural and dignified way, and that those who have caused problems that place behind them is behind bars, not in responsible functions in BiH institutions, the Federation or canton. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20090	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament are scheduled for the Joint College at 1:00 p.m. The Joint College is scheduled for the reason why we have to agree and I call on the presidents of the clubs to discuss the Commission for the implementation of the conflict of interest law. As you remember at last session, we voted in conclusion that at the Joint College, together with the club presidents, we try to agree on a Commission. That was the reason why I let this agenda point run until 1:00 in order to be at that session, otherwise we would have to vote first and postpone voting on the Commission again. So please until 2:00 a.m. is a break, at 2:00 p.m. we continue this agenda period, and I hope we'll be able to vote on this agenda as well. [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. A colleague, Drago Kalabić, is not here, next to the replica, came from a respected counterpart, Saša Bursać. Here you go. Just a little bit, cantonal, female stuff we'll do later, let's hear it first.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20092	Thank you, Chairman. I answered Mr. Jurišić's line, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20093	Who isn't here.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20094	He's gone, but it doesn't matter. There's no Mr. Magazinović... (?) No microphone turned on It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Well, here's the thing, though, I want to tell you one thing, I've come to him for a replica for the reason that definitely one of his sentences would agree, and the other would not, with one another would not, and so all through his entire discussion, would, would not, and then until the end came I don't know what to do with him or not, but definitely wouldn't about those allegations that we have some enormous receipts... because we've been paid to work in commissions, here I am in four commissions not paid for any. I'm not a professional MP, I'm not getting a salary this big and that much, I'm taking three thousand marks from Parliament, so plus a flat-rate, plus travel expenses. And then I, in that context, don't get it, so let's understand that these three thousand incomes, these travel expenses, it's a legal obligation and this one paused, but I don't know what that privilege is. This means that Mr. Magazinović, or SDP, has stated in his initiative and defends Mr. Magazinović, so 43 that here are my colleagues, perhaps to share with you what is in this part of me a privilege and whether any of you have any privileges. These are my rights, so, which I am legally accomplishing and I don't see what the problem is, but I see the problem is that it's a privilege. I don't feel privileged in any way, in any way, except what it means, which is all our high wages, so let's just say that my salary is high too, there's no problem. But in this context, I cannot agree, so neither Mr. Jurišić nor Mr. Magazinović. Definitely, when I said I didn't understand Mr. Jurišić, I didn't understand him the other day when he was talking about buying his Mercedes, so I don't even know today about a lot of things he was talking about, because we're definitely pulling ourselves into the neck and the media and the NGOs and everything else. And here, let me remind you, we've all been involved probably in some kind of NGO, and they simply travel costs the way we're counting on us here on the legal basis, accounting in both the Federation and the RS in the same way, so that's the legal category of accounting.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20096	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20097	You've taken up a little of my time by calming Parliament, please. So that's how they account for travel expenses, I travel to Parliament 290 km in one direction, 290 I have until I return, I think that's the right which, let's say, gentlemen who come from pasti, here's my colleague Slavuj, he has no right to do so at all, but right, not privilege. So I repeat once again, definitely the initiative for this reason is not good, you don't know, I don't think there's a privilege, they're pure by law certain rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20098	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, discussion about the initiative whether we should put it as a part of the agenda or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20099	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this way, the SDA supports the establishment of a temporary commission and me and my colleague, Fazlić, in the debate at the Finance and Budget Commission, expressed that view. Look, when we talk about this topic, we should always go from ourselves, uh, compare ourselves to others now, I don't know how meaningful it is, but it's interesting that this initiative was launched before what happened in the Federation's space is what happened, but then we pointed out to the Commission, me and Mr. Fazlić, that this is an interesting topic and what the temporary commission should do, but necessarily that after the commission's work, we have a result. We insist on the result. This result would, in our view, be a reduction in the overall consumption of budget money in the name of income and the privileges created by the behaviour of functions in the BiH state institutions, if it were found to be large, a reduction in the total consumption of budget money. And if we don't have those conclusions, we'll figure it out. I don't think the work of that commission or this idea will be good, the work of the commission won't be good, this idea won't get, it won't have something that should in some way be a positive one, here I would say, a correction that will somehow fit into today's economic, social situation in the 44 state of BiH. For these reasons, here again I say, we support the formation of this commission. Every day we're in a position to hear certain through the media space, here we can say, speculations of hypothetically-set pay figures. Here we are, you see, here MPs don't know how many receipts are and we're saying, not to say some more difficult word, certain numbers that aren't true, and the work of this committee will, if nothing and on the other hand, throw out what the situation is like right now, and then our decision here in Parliament should, if I say, be something enormously large, go in the direction of correction. We assume that this initiative should be passed on now, and I think that by our own way of working, by reviewing the situation within ourselves, we can project further on entities, on cantons, not to say so in municipalities, if nothing beyond our political representatives at these levels of government. Although in my opinion, the public should also further help their pressures to be realized at these lower levels of government. And in some period of time, we would certainly have a positive effect on this matter, a correct relationship in the future and by citizens towards MPs. In my opinion, this initiative can't be, it can't be bad, it just needs to be carried out in a fair way further into action. And about that, uh, that we're now short of how many people are out, what gives, who works here for the stamp, who mercedes jeep comes into this Parliament and works for the brand, who settles before that, I think that's the period that's ahead of us, that we should also do it in some way, and see under what circumstances, how someone enormously rich in this country, and today comes here to work for a stamp, half a stamp or 50 fening, etc. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20100	Thank you. Replica, colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Replication of Mr. Sokolović and all those who advocate this initiative. Let me say right now I'm not against this, but if we're keeping people in mind that the end of the term, we have an effective five months, August is an annual vacation, September pre-election campaign, bye-bye students, interrupts, this assembly of Parliament says hello to who's been performing with what initiatives it forgets, new ones come. Now, are there any more important things in this country? So when the 63rd session was interrupted and today continued, then I asked the Minister of Security to come here and say how secure the situation is in the country. Today we continue the session, and we still don't know what the situation is safe in the country. We don't know who's responsible for this, who's doing this right now, what these are doing to the tide, and I've said so many times, who's making these riots around the country, do they make sure they do damage and they break BiH, is not Slavko Jovičić's SNSD or Srbin from RS. They break up, so I'm not in any fear, and I'm never afraid, I've won all my fears, but I come here to Parliament, and now I have to think and tell my colleague, Tomić, if we're going through the Vrac, we're going through the transit, we're going through the city, where we're going, what we're going to do. From Pala, we don't know how to get to Sarajevo, and this is our town, not that we're scared of, but what I don't know is that 50 will come to the Hygiene Institute and stop traffic, listen, 50 people stopped traffic. How is it possible in the city once with a civilized people? But, behold, they themselves are declared by some parliament, and I don't know what they are called, who knows and what they will be, and they run the country. And now someone's asking me to support this initiative here and we have five months left. That in the first year of office, the second year, so I support it immediately. But people have more than one thing, winter tourist season failed, huge losses, no one knows what kind of security is, what kind of seed is it going to be, if we're going to welcome 45 with a crust of bread choices, no one's taking care of it. But now give me this privilege, I have the privilege, I admit it, I have the privilege to decide on something, it's my only privilege. And when someone asks me what you've made, what decision? I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20102	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić discusses. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, if they haven't already gone listening to all this, respected media representatives, to whom we seem to be one mini-attraction in all these events today. First, I will call upon our own people and his wisdom, for he is always older and smarter than all of us as individuals, and she has one of his own who says, "God have fun about himself." Here, we've been doing a whole session today in a huge number of cases ourselves, so we've decided for ourselves. As for not only these initiatives, but also the first ones, you saw how we started this session today, the system of concentric circles slowly got in and into this tall home, it came to us. What is happening in the streets of our cities has produced today’s way of thinking, thinking, and reacting. That's why this is happening. We're all a little nervous, and a lot of us are scared. I would say honestly, they have the right to be afraid because they know why they're afraid, but well, I'm not Tarabić, nor Nostradamus, but believe in my perceptions that are very strengthened in relation to yours, from your world this is not over yet, believe me, I feel some inner chill, but since then. And that first initiative of Mr. Vice-President, whom I have valued as a sincere Social Democrats, looks to me very much like an ash spilling and a populist take of some desperate measures to get in touch with the one we fear. To be honest and honest, I hope Mr Bećirović will not be angry with me, because I always speak from the heart. And as for this initiative that we're talking about right now, it's on that line. Why do we make so many excuses, whether any of us wonder, persistently and persistently? Here, for more than three years, we've been sitting here together and every time we're making excuses, we're making excuses for someone, we're putting our own bills on someone, we're stripping ourselves naked to see who we are. Why? Does he have any excuse for that kind of justice, do he? Is this initiative simply triggering a new sense of our justification that, as here, we will take this initiative and we will wash ourselves a little. If we're guilty, if we're dirty, if we're dishonest, if we're dishonest, if we're dishonest to those who trust us, we're dishonest, and we can't do that. And I never, especially now at this time, not only has this pre-election dirty campaign long ago caught all the ends of BiH, very dirty and very raw, do not pour water on that mill. And when you add to that what's going on and now this moment on our streets you're doing in favor of your own damage. This term of office should be done with honor and integrity until the end. If we're pink, let them pink us, if they blame us, let them blame us. And they need evidence for lipstick and guilt, so let them go, I'm not afraid. I've never feared my own people, and it's funny for me to fear my own people, Bog forbid me, I wasn't afraid of death and fear my people. And please take this seriously. I would really like to finish this work, no matter how it may be, at least until the end we remain honest and honest people, with pride and high heads, to end this mandate and not to be ashamed that we are MPs, because someone will be after us. All of this tomorrow will be tomorrow, don't forget it, and many forget it. I ask you once again 46, don't make yourself so full of this by defending yourself from what, from yourself, don't please. We do this job seriously, we have much to do, to show and prove our value as people, and especially as elected MPs from our own people. We don't need to be afraid. If we have to justify ourselves, then we have to do it with our heads up proudly, not with ashes. I'm asking you not to take this as a criticism, but to think of a man on his way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20104	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20105	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues. As a member and president of the Commission for Budget and Finance some 15 days ago, we supported this initiative, although at the time there were dissonant tones, this, what this initiative brings globally. It seemed to me at that point that it was extremely fruitful, extremely high-quality, because in the end it would solve a local problem, take off some sort of mark and all that is happening to the MPs, or representatives of both homes when it comes to finance and privileges. In BiH, however, everything is happening at some strange, cosmic rate. It's 15 days long enough for everything that was stable yesterday and quality to become unstable, unquality and uncertain, which is the most significant. So this initiative, in my opinion, has become uncertain, too, has become a political spin. Why did she become a political spin? It became a political spin because it comes from people who have experienced very unpleasant moments in the last 15, 20 days. A few governments have fallen, several congregations have fallen, the tides have formed, and now they simply choose their own people, who choose their own people who, by yesterday, have been defeated by the authorities, say – let us finish it as soon as possible. So there's a lot of conflict, a lot of different opinions. I'm like some guy who's not very shallow, but I think I'm reading a lot and I can figure out between the lines, I think it's a political spin that's probably gonna do the most harm to those who, who this... That's my attitude. Of course, I can't oppose the initiative, the initiative is talking about corruption, thieving and everything that's rightful for this country. I'm absolutely on the verge of the story, which is the truth coming out of our domain, Mr. Niko Lozančić, which is a privilege and who gets the most hurt here. It's not a privilege, gentlemen, if you have a car, it's not a privilege if you have 600 marks, I don't know, an apartment, a warm meal, it's not a privilege, it's a privilege of political power, it's a privilege to use your political power, hire whoever you want, put..., incompetent, unquality, it's a privilege when in the strongest public enterprises you receive whoever you want and how you want, and you sit behind the shadows. Privilege is dear gentlemen when simply the best quality and best students cannot get a place in health institutions because they do not have strong people behind them. Privileges are dear gentlemen when you run the biggest companies where you only register the balance of success and you didn't contribute anything because the company is based on taking it from the people, whether it's about BH Telekom, whether it's about Elektroprivreda and other institutions. It's a privilege. I don't have that privilege, I don't have that privilege, and I wish I had that privilege. And that's my privilege. So what's listed as a college in these, testing who gets what, whether he spends more or less oil, gasoline and everything else isn't a privilege for me. We have some other privileges that we do not want to talk about clearly and publicly. 47 I think Niko Lozančić touched the bottom of the bottom where we are at the moment. You have, and explained, he didn't, or he explained, I apologized, but, well, maybe we even touched the bottom and I touched, and I'm sorry, no Niko thought anything wrong, uh, explained a phenomenon that deeply worried all of us here, especially the government. The government cries, the power that defacto controls all the pores of life crying, they're in the car, they're crying. Publicly speaking, let's all cut our wages. What all pay cuts mean to me until yesterday we didn't even deserve that salary if you're going to cut 40% of the salary now. I don't want to cut my salary. Why? Because my salary is based on my work. If I do, if I operate... if I have a lot of patients, and I have everyone behind me who... I have the salary I've earned, I don't have a flat-rate, I don't have... payments over funds, 11 funds in the Federation of BiH. On the contrary, all those who run these funds are against me because I show that another mechanism can succeed. I cannot bring heat into my most modern hospital in BiH because the municipality does not give me the same tariff as it does for a public sector that does not pay its tariffs. I'm treated like... I operate on sheep believed, not humans,...people. These are the nice privileges of the elite that have settled in their chairs and chairs and which the protests have shaken. That's what we need to talk about. Therefore, this initiative, which I voted on and which I defacto support as something that has no purpose whatsoever, is a simple political spin for those who want to correct what they have messed up. I come from Tuzla Canton where the President of the Assembly has 6,5,000 marks of salary and every day appears on TV and says – please give your members to take over the government and form an expert government. What are we talking about, which expert government, which expert government? There's no expert government around here, the man put Chee Guevara's jacket on and he's an expert. Of course, I'm an intruder to him because I'm an MP. I'm not an intruder I've got legitimately so many votes, and that's why I'm proud. My perception of politics, whether I can, and I could, and everyone suggested to me, that I also have a state salary and I work at a private centre, all of which I can finish, I'm not that naive, I'm so naive, I know and I know how it's done, but you have one moral, human obligation that if you work at full capacity, I say in full capacity because I'm a surgeon, a cardio surgeon in BiH, and secondaryly I'm a parliamentarian who uses politics to harmonize some relationships, I've fought for equality that..., I don't have the support of many of you here. So this is about one disastrous, horrible political spin that has no chance at all. He doesn't stand a chance because he's not honest, because he's not honest and he's on the line to save what's being saved. You can't save yourself, the fire destroyed everything, the fire swept everything away. So please, if it's easier for someone to pass this initiative, let them pass, but personally, I don't think that this initiative now after 15 days, when I warmly fought for it, there's any chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20106	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what I'd like to say is that this initiative from the SDP Club comes from the year 30.12.2013. So what kind of spin can we talk about using the current situation? We can simply conclude that the development of events has shown the justification of this initiative. And if this is spin, let's share in this, to create a platform for one regulation of expenditure, salaries and other expenditure for all those to whom this initiative is being presented and to bring it down to one reasonable level that corresponds to the economic situation and to the political mood of citizens. I also want to say that our function in this 48 Parliament is extremely important, but we all have to agree that behind our work are not the expected results, and that we also as responsible people should consider whether, if these receipts that assume certain, certain productivity, certain social productivity, economic growth, progress, etc., are sustainable in this situation, are the outpouring of the dissent of citizens and objective indicators of our work. Therefore, I call on us to bring this spin together to an end and create a platform in which we could, based on which we could make one more socially responsible distribution of the income that we have in this House. And for my colleague Jovičić, I don't think it's a vain job somewhere at the end of this House, this could be a good basis for those who come to have a job done, knowingly done. And finally, not just some, but also the proponent of this initiative will be in the same position to show up in this analysis, or in the results of this work. So our SDP representatives are also users of certain, conditional terms, privileges. So let's not run away from this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20108	Thank you. Next discussion, distinguished colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. We from the SNSD and on the Commission were against such a proposal precisely knowing which direction it was headed. In the best conditions to go from today's vote, to support the initiative, as the House of Peoples passes, published in the Official Messenger, the commission has as it is being established for 90 days, it will be almost in August, and in August, someone will just take it, use it and tell the story by the myths, the choirs, and draw it out as to whom it pleases. I think that, no matter how many people try to say that this is not populist, this is a purely populist move, a voter pass, especially when it comes to Parliament. Well, I think that in this country, people who don't know what the salaries of parliamentarians are and what the privileges are, or what they enjoy. So, now that it turns out that individual directors of institutions or organizations that are state-owned have two or three times the salary, the use of cars, not to say how many advisors, not to say how many people around them all over the team, and we broke up explaining ourselves. I was in conversation yesterday with representatives of the Twinning project in which delegations are from France, Portugal and Hungary, explaining that we MPs do not have our own expert associates to consult on certain problems, nor do we have any kind of help, but we ourselves have to work on it, unlike one company in which a simple civil servant or director in that institution can choose himself and two advisers, both assistants and the whole team. If someone sat down seriously to do that analysis, and then they saw that MPs did not cost this country the most, but it cost them much more than those individuals who thus earn money, or keep around them a whole team of people who work for their needs. If we want to get things in order, I think there are much simpler solutions. In this country, the salary of BiH presidency members should be determined. She has to be a limit, no one can get over it. After that comes the government, or Parliament, chairing, etc., and sorting out MPs, comparing the directors of organisations, institutions. And we can always tie that 49 from the road coefficient, the average salary times 3 times 2 times 2 times I don't know what criteria we agree on, and if it grows, then we'd all have an interest in growing average wages to increase and pay these people where they're limited. I think that in the RS it is well regulated, no one can have a higher salary than the President of the Republic, than, it has a order. In other organisations and institutions, some things will happen, but that should also be defined by law, covered, that no one can have a higher salary and that could happen. To say what kind of vehicle and who can have any vehicle. What we are dealing with now is the consequences when this is over, instead of saying – the most expensive vehicle can be a member of the Presidency, the President of Parliament, or, and the price of the vehicle cannot exceed 100,000 marks, for example, that I do not now determine what they are, the vehicle can have that and that. Not every secretary can have a vehicle in an agency and use it for 24 hours. Thus, in such a way, we can make criteria, rules to say how much one has the right to use a vehicle. Have you ever met any of these civil servants driving a tram or any other. No, it's usually that, they take cars and they use it a lot more than these officials do. Determine the level of representation, determine the consumption of the phone, fuel, living room, etc. All that can be predicted. And this analysis would serve exclusively in an election campaign, draw everyone for themselves as much as anyone who needs to be entangled by an opponent or on the other side, he says – see how much he took. I think if it hadn't come at the right time, it would have been better if it had happened at the beginning of our term of office and this is the way we're talking about it, and now, in my opinion, it would have been populist, and that's why we didn't vote on the Commission either. And as for us from the SNSD, freely let all of ours, all our receipts, and already they are public and all know, and we do not flee from it and hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20110	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20111	I thank the chairman. Here, I won't talk about correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Tomić, but he would like to check how much the director of the RS Deposit Insurance Agency has paid, I think he's twice as big as the president of the Republic. But it doesn't matter, I came out here to say that if I could blame myself in this mandate, which is the dignity of this Parliament, and all of us as MPs, let me say, fell from the mandate before that. That's why, if not just me and the College, we're all responsible. That and the discussions we had earlier, and the debate, but also the initiatives during this mandate that were submitted here and on this issue, have shown. Let's be honest with ourselves and say that the parliamentary seat should be earned, and that we all came here on behalf of the voters who voted for us. That we need their votes to turn, according to our vote, and also their legal projects, and to translate here into certain documents. The only way, and here is where it can always be done, is either to change the Constitution or to change the Law on Salaries in BiH institutions. Let me remind you that the initiative to change the Constitution passed this House and that on the Constitutional Commission on 06.02. was decided to do but in 60 days, a statement on Amendment II to the Constitution of BiH, which means somewhere in April. The Constitutional Commission of the People's House has yet to declare this to the amandman. We are left to see what measure it is, which each of us MPs who listens to what the people say, would be, as counterpart Tomić said, to start with a member of the Bureau, and then each of us MPs, ministers, etc., so 50 let's see an esteemed colleague who will say that an expert will come to him for 200 marks to work. So let's see the distinguished colleagues who will come for the three average salaries, which I think, right now, and to announce that this law is prepared, which I think as an MP, because I don't want to agree with anyone about what the measure is, but to hear from you every thought about what the measure is, and to see from us a colleague who is going to report for that amount to be on the list again and to find himself here in this House. Because I'm sorry, as counterpart Kabil says, that he earned that salary working as a doctor, let each of us think he's going to run for this job at all, for the salary we say he'll have in the next term, because in the Constitution of BiH, it's not possible to reduce the acceptance of MPs. What was done once by the Council of Ministers to pull someone out of the Constitutional Court would be brought down because the BiH Constitution was violated. Let's say for the next term we here now say how much we think the measure for an MP who works here has two sessions a month, work on commissions, etc., etc. Do we have the strength to open this story here in Parliament, to openly say what we can do, and we can, and tell the Council of Ministers to give sublegal acts to see how you regulate the issue and the representations and question of other privileges you have, and we will tell the next Council of Ministers with these sublaws cannot be elected until they are made in accordance with what the people through MPs say is a measure, and then we will stick to measures. And then everyone for their job to get what's being said here is a measure. Do you have the strength to talk, do you have the strength to talk or want, and this can simply be solved, the conclusion – the initiative of the Administrative Commission is being forwarded to do the job within a month. What's the problem? The Commission works, has everyone here working, and that in a month the Commission wants those NGOs, MPs, delegates and others who want to hear these data subsidized. And I keep giving you conclusions here that you can't vote on when we talk about the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, because that's where the leaders sit, when you can't vote on the Court and the Prosecution because there are centers of power that no one can mention here. So don't invite us for a variety of initiatives if you can't go through with these initiatives. Let's talk about what we can talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20112	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20113	I had no intention of discussing it, my colleague Sokolović expressed the position of the SDA Club on this initiative and we will really do as he said, but I am invited to some discussions, especially this last discussion, to say a few sentences anyway on this subject. So, I have been a member for many years now of having one another at home and I must tell you that we in the BiH Parliament are to blame, so I have seen it, which is how the perception of the public towards Parliament appears. So what is the perception of the public towards Parliament is that Parliament is one wasteful institution, one institution which I would say is irresponsible against the obligations it should have as the most representative body in the country. And I don't think I'm going to generalize things again, there are different colleagues and colleagues here in this House on this matter, but generally as Parliament, we haven't passed the exam. And Mr Živković, I support your initiative, there will be no normal work in this Parliament and one correct public relationship with Parliament and Parliament in the face of the public until the reception of Members of Parliament, therefore the total incomes, are approved by the 51st public. Until then, there will be a problem, and we will not be able to perform the function for which we are in charge of the Constitution and for which we are determined by the Constitution to perform. I think it's a shame for both Parliament and the public, for all of us in BiH, and the sooner we do this thing the better. Therefore, your initiative, to finally say once what it is in BiH, so let's sort it out, let's go from ourselves. And I understand this initiative, among other things, and in this context, that other salaries should be harmonised, so it's not fair that the director of some agency there has a higher salary than the head of state, so it's not an office, which is financed from the budget as well as the head of state, etc. But those of us directly elected, directly elected, who were sent here to do some work on behalf of those who sent us, we should share the fate of those who sent us and be sensitive to the situation of the economic and social ones who voted for us and who sent us here. I've been burdened with this question for a long time, so I won't talk about my own personal example, I can go to accounting and look for each of us, but Mr. Živković, I, therefore, propose this law, I support your initiative, I will vote for that initiative to finally limit that pay and that we finally know where we are. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20114	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20115	...I mostly agree with what he is, what his colleague Džaferović was talking about. I can't help but try to clear something up. If it is rightly expected that the widest public, it is a formulation used by counterpart Džaferović, I cannot in some way not ask who would and in any way represent the widest public, so that the widest public would express itself, in which formal form to say so, and that is not so. Is it some medium, perhaps, whether it's the media at all, whether it's some associations, which are governmental, which are formally non-governmental. And in short, therefore, the problem of verification, the problem of representation. That's one thing. Secondly, I hope that when we talk about this problem of not losing sight of what should be a true function and representatives and all those who deal with public affairs, which is a public interest, that is a general interest. Not to mention, of course, no, because it would be completely unnecessary... that a certain degree of independence, from political to material, is necessary for the involvement of a public worker. Here, to be as brief as possible, I can only give an example of a country that, certainly cannot say is not democratic, or at least it's more democratic than we are, unfortunately, the Federal Republic of Germany. They, recently read the news, increased the fees to representatives in Budenstage who are large anyway, at least from our perspective, but also increased the fines for bribery and corruption. One goes with the other. I will not say, of course, it does not occur to me that the adoption of parliamentarians in BiH, people in the executive government, etc., different directors, various directors, agencies, etc. are justified from the perspective of the economic and social situation in BiH. I don't think so, but the question of measures is a crucial question and it wouldn't be a good thing if you lost that sense of action and that primary function in which MPs are to be found, and members of the executive government, and most of all, all the people involved in public affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20116	Thank you. 52 Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20117	Well, here, just for a little while. Several colleagues today mentioned that Parliament did not make an account, namely that it is unsustainable to the obligations that Parliament has to pay this kind of salary. So we can look at it differently. I think that, I analyze myself always and always go by myself, and I think that I have fulfilled all the tasks that were set before me. And I can clearly document these with different criteria, and work on committees, sitting in sessions, other activities that are also being conducted within the Parliamentary Assembly's website. And I think the voters who gave me the vote are happy with what I'm doing here. Our perception of it is different. The Federation MPs, they, their perception that many more laws should have been passed on to BiH, or jurisdiction, and that this could only justify any salary, any one. Here, we have a different feeling about that perception. And I don't think I brought by anything that the voter who voted for me last time was thinking about whether to vote again. I pass between these people, cross the city and the street and get their approval for what I do. I don't need anyone here to tell me that I haven't fulfilled my obligations or that by someone's perception here, it's not right. So that's the thing, so let's answer that question. Are we ready to settle that question, that's what my colleague Živković said, are we ready for all of us to work on it? If we did, then it's a matter of systemic measures, and then it's a question that can't happen to break all this in Parliament. The Council of Ministers didn't even talk about it. Is it possible that, according to those who so claim, Parliament did not deserve it? Is it possible that all ministers in the Council of Ministers have fulfilled their obligations, and what is the effect of their work on the Council of Ministers? Not to mention the agencies that exist, which we have established that BiH was more states than it is, so they have nothing, and they have nothing to do but to bother with what they write in the report. That's because we don't have the power to talk about these things seriously. It's not too much pay for MPs if they're doing their job. And if he's not coming, if he's not attending the working-body sessions as a key issue for the work of a parliamentarian, then that's it, that's a lot. And not to mention these agencies that have been invented and... question if they know what it is...
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20118	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20119	I'm afraid we didn't understand each other until the end. All of us, so we know what you're talking about, Mr. Franjičevićć and you, Mrs. Majkić, nothing of it, so it's not a dispute. In this country there are three people sitting in the BiH presidency and there are 42 people sitting here in this House who are directly in the hands of the country elected by the people. And I, of this 42, one part is quite directly, one part is with... but so directly. Three plus 42 or 42 plus 3. We need to get away from ourselves. I never thought I'd say we should stop there, but let's go from ourselves, and we're the most responsible to those who are here... We gain legitimacy and certainly have an obligation under the Constitution and by the law to arrange it as a system. And that, so it's not a problem at all. 53 And you see, Mr. Franjičević, you are right, you are asking what this widest public is, therefore, to define, and that is the question that is in place. I can hardly answer that question at this point if I want to be serious, but here I am asking the opposite question – did you hear anyone from that, any segment and the highest public, and you have listed some segments, that he said – that people, and your salaries in the state Parliament are fine. I haven't heard from him since 2008, since September, when these salaries increased any of the segments from that public that he said -- yes, that's fine. Isn't that a signal that we have to ask ourselves what's really up with us? I'm just asking that question, nothing more. And this initiative serves me above all else. We people have to do this, so we have to do this thing, we're the ones who will find the measure, and we're obliged to find the measure, we're the ones who'll find a cross-section of what the general public means, and we're the ones who make the decision. There's no one in this country who can do it for us. As long as we don't settle it here and until we show that kind of responsibility, this isn't just a matter of pay, now let me say what I mean by the end, this isn't just a matter of Members of Parliament, this is a matter of system, because anything below us or above us can only be worse than what we have here, so we're the one... we're the ones who need to start. And in that, therefore, is symbolism and significance. It's a more important thing than the height of the pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20120	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20121	Here, from a few of these last lines, I need to say something. Col. Franjičević said that in the German parliament, salaries were raised in the Bundestag but that the penalties for corruption and crime were also increased. I had a chance with colleagues Tomić and my colleague Nermin 10 days ago to be in a meeting with a Bundestag representative, and he said that his, that his incomes were three times the average salary in Germany, if, I think, I don't know, is that right. So we could solve here something that you chair said, meaning, and from these discussions, we could talk about some sort of system solutions. Is it a big salary for parliamentarians? It is compared to 560 thousand unemployed, if there are so many, but even if there aren't so many authorities again, then we have too many of those working on black. So we need to have fun each and every one in our midst to cut that number to black, work on black, so maybe there won't be 560 grand, but there'll be maybe 360. If we say, as I was saying in my discussion, that in public enterprises, which we, the ruling parties, are more of a warm meal at the level of the month than an average pension, then we wonder if our incomes are high, we can't even talk about wages, we can talk about incomes. They're high. How are we going to convince someone who's retired and who has a very small list of medications, who has to pay for everything or give, I don't know, for drugs 200 marks and has to receive 350, and now we're telling him that I'm getting 4 or 5 thousand marks or 6 that it's on me, that it's just right, that I need so much pay. But we're in trouble because we've been discussing these things in parliaments for about two years. And we never truly looked into our eyes and said, yes, we are in a position, we have certain privileges, I mentioned them, in the use of the material goods offered by this state, or a certain level of government, we have the privilege of, I don't know, employment. Tell me when someone saw a tender at BH Telekom to receive an employee, in Elektroprivreda, in HT Eronet, in the Peace Institute, in the Health Institute. No, I don't. But we use those privileges, we, 54 call there, we have a party director, it's from the party whether, and then they call it to us... Let's all go away and see where we are. Therefore, we need to get strength and bring systematic solutions and to see that we are working for the common good as we say. I wouldn't say after this situation that this is generally good, but it just turns out that we work for ourselves. But here, I think we want to change and we need to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20122	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20123	I repeat once again, and my opinion is, of course, that it is necessary to find a measure when it comes to receiving all public officials, so Parliamentarians and members of the executive bodies, etc. The receipts should be consistent with the economic and social situation in BiH. However, I can't get the impression that it's simple, that confused order is size and that it's artificial (?) He wants to go towards some kind of chaos. I can't get the impression that this is about the smoke curtain, that we're discussing things that, if we were to correct them in the most radical way, in the most radical of the proposed ways, would bring savings to this country in the amount of, I don't know, here's a million, two or three million marks. On the other hand, fully in the shadows remain, real crime remains, real corruption remains in the shadow of public enterprises that are generators of corruption in this country that no one is questioning, where inn hundreds of millions of marks are completely irresponsible. And the public is having fun, instead of focusing here, focus is focused on completely irrelevant but to the public it's very fun or more fun stuff. Now, that bothers me, and in that sense, maybe we should try to find some kind of exit that would really be in function, which wouldn't be demagogue, because demagogy certainly won't help us, which would be real. That might not be a nice story, but it would be a real story to help this country. I, here, have a colleague who sat with me in the last term in the Federal Parliament, on behalf of my club suggested at one point because, because I was fed up with the debate on various public enterprises at federal level whose business had been troubled from the political corner, depending on whether the impact on a particular public enterprise had this or that political option, I suggested that an independent business control be carried out, legality in the business of all public enterprises regardless of who was behind them politically. And that conclusion in the Federal Parliament, unfortunately, didn't go through. It's about our... here and now. I don't think anything has changed since then.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20124	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20125	I thank the chairman. Here, I have tried to refrain from a discussion concerning salary in Parliament, privilege, etc. For the understandable reasons of my status, I'm not engaged, in a permanent employment... Parliament, I don't take full of that salary, etc. Of course, each of us determined his 55th measure. I'm not criticizing anyone, I've set my own measure to do two jobs for the same salary, to do the other part of the job for three people, so I have a triple standard in college, etc., and I'm trying to do one and another job right. However, initiated by today's discussion and those who are against, and who have instructed some arguments, I could not ask myself, without imposing the same question on all of you, this Parliament, this Parliamentary Assembly, or all of us MPs, that we have passed as many laws, as there is a need in this country, that we have solved the problem of judgment of Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, because this is our obligation, that we have adopted the Law on Military Property and that we have allowed one step towards Euro-Atlantic integration, I am not sure that anyone would stand by the salaries of parliamentarians and have that perception that it has. So I also fully agree with my colleague Živković's discussion. And I would like to remind you that even my colleague Belkić and I, and at the beginning of this term, have also proposed... an amendment to the Constitution to remove barriers to wage regulation, or the harmonisation of parliamentary salaries. And it's always experienced as it is today, or this political option is for political reasons, either pre-election, or post-election, or positional or opposition. You know, if you don't want something, you'll always find an argument as to why you don't want something. But let us ask ourselves, how much we are really like the Parliamentary Assembly, and each of us has contributed individually to this perception towards one of the most important institutions in this country. So did we respond to the task that was ahead of us, how many laws we passed, how many things we did for this country's progress? And I will mention especially, here's what anyone thought or had a different view of the events since the beginning of February in BiH or in parts of BiH, but here I say in BiH, I have to say it would be perfectly normal if the Parliamentary Assembly had an extraordinary session. I'm sorry, someone may not be identified with Sarajevo and protests in Sarajevo, but Sarajevo is the capital of BiH. We were obliged by our obligation to schedule a session and hear and report from the competent institutions at the state level, if we were to invite and entity institutions, etc., and to discuss in the spirit of the situation that she requested. I really think so, and I think that each of us should wonder why we have such perception in public, that is, why the public sees us this way. I personally think they're paying or a salary measure, etc. And in state institutions they should reflect what these institutions are doing. ...no one can wash away the responsibility of why some things were not done in a three-year term and had to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20126	Thank you. Comrade Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20127	Well, there's probably no end to this story, but probably one day, when those who write memoirs about events in this time, and we're going to get some things that we suspect are now getting confirmation or information about what's been going on. There's a lot of demagogue access to this story, and it's basically defending the things that we all keep quiet about and don't talk about. The problem of this Parliament is basically not solved political relations in this country and we are the hostages of this story and it is a completely cheap parole that all this big problem will be solved by the issue of salary in this Parliament. It's quite clear that it's impossible, but they're all agreed that it's now being used as an excuse. As for the perception of the public, I will only remind you, because this Parliament and some political parties in it have persistently and persistently agreed to its disenfranchisement in favour of the other 56 centres of power, now suddenly they wonder what we do not have powers. He's got some kind of public perception. What's that perception? Just a while ago, a journalist of BH television, founded by this Parliament, was panickingly inviting the people to a link of MPs and attack on this building in direct television transmission. To escape the same journalist from the building when one party announced, only a few weeks behind that, that it would block the law. That's why this reporter invited citizens to lynch us here. What are we talking about? What are we talking about? Is that a public perception? Can he give himself up on what his perception is? Or that we're guilty of that law or that we're not? Or is it a classic abuse of media, powerful media, from even more powerful centres of power? The man Šahbaz who ran that night's television was also in charge the other day, then inviting people to lynch us because of the law, when we passed the law he escaped from the building. So that the same television can directly transmit arson, with comments that do not turn faster and higher. Is that perception? And this Parliament is set up. When we open a rap about it here, he says no, you're against it, we don't let it, it has to be like that. And we're going round and round. Now, these are the facts that don't allow for sure, these are the facts where foreign judges and prosecutors are defended here. All the public thinks it's our fault that criminals aren't in jail, and foreign prosecutors and judges and all those who, and then ours, and I find them foreign, every prosecutor and judge who doesn't do their job for me is a stranger, they're easy to hold these items in drawers, weighs 100 million from robbery privatisation, tax evasion and everything, and skillful spinning across the media is focusing attention on us. See how some media have changed the record in the last three months. Where'd they get the money, who financed it? Who of us can ask that question? How is it possible that in one country we must not ask where people come from and how they change their policy overnight? Look, a lot of people are different, obviously paid from some black funds, black funds, because where does it come from? Since it's a crisis, no one else has the money, they're the only ones with the money. And they make very powerful programs that cost money. And no one's gonna tell people where the money came from. But the spin is focused on who knows who. Thank Bog these are very powerful media and thank Bog we can't defend ourselves. It's Sisife's job to defend against it, and whoever's powerful, who decides everything and decides why he's doing it, knows why he's doing it. But don't, at least here we all know each other enough, and we don't need, aware of all these facts, that we're spreading dust in the sense that we didn't have a wish, we had an intention. This is where we said - gentlemen, tell us how much it is. But at this point, there is no official proposal from any political party or any minister. So here, and the chairman of the SDP could bring the Council of Ministers to the table of laws and say, 2,100 marks is the highest salary in BiH, please, gentlemen, we won't leave until this is over. And get it over with in 48 hours. It wasn't brought. I'm not going in because it wasn't brought in. Now, let's do something here. Let's get a platform. Whenever a platform is mentioned, I get my hair up, because right now I know it's a disaster and it's something that's wrong. At least we don't get exhausted, to be aware of these facts, those who are powerful and create these processes. You remember, and I'm going to end up, before a certain period of time, that the High Representative has replaced in this country 50 people on very heavy charges, that people are in corruption, that they're in crime, that they are, and people thought that these people would go to jail. Niko of them have been charged, nor have any of them filed an account. They ran out of bread, no pay, no jobs, under heavy charges. The judges and prosecutors shut up, because the high representative took, the cadiya judges you, as he says, the cadiya is suing you. And that no one ever explained. It was devastating for this country. Nor did anyone continue to explain to say – people were wrong. No, I don't. And of course we later got the atrophy that's to this day. You've got a situation of someone throwing stones, I'm not defending anyone, someone is throwing stones at that MP in the canton, who was elected yesterday, as the culprit for the robbery privatisation whose prosecutor and judge are holding in the drawer an object weighing 100 million and which is not interested, and this is the perception that this poor thing could have. I'm not defending him, he's not guilty of anything and he couldn't do anything. But there is no 57 Bog who will change the perception that he's guilty, and that's why they set the building on fire and put him on a pillar of shame. And as guilty as he is, so am I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20128	Thank you. Next to the discussion, distinguished counterpart Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20129	Well, I'm listening to all this now, and I've decided not to answer because this is a topic that you can talk about for days, and in the end we're not going to agree on as clearly as... Here's the question of how did we get into this situation, why are we in this situation now to talk about this subject? As it happens, there are opportunities for large interventions over wages and various compensations that are different at different levels. And right away, I think it's Parliament's fault. Parliament is the one who passed the laws, the Paralment can pass the law and compare all the salaries that come from the Budget of BiH. And who's supposed to do that? The one who rules, the majority of the congregation. The council of ministers should pass a bill that will address the BiH-level salary issue. So anything that goes from the Budget of BiH should be defined by law. And there's the solution, and it's clear. Is there a will for that? I don't know. Another question of mine -- how did we get to this right now in a chaotic state, because it came here in one period obviously a big grab for money from the Budget of BiH. Here, we hear it was 2008. We are, the SDS Club is here composed of new people in Parliament, we were not involved in this. They were ours then, but we didn't participate and I can't say how it was, how it happened, but again, Parliament probably voted on it or the Administrative Commission. Therefore, it is Parliament's fault again. The only way out of this is, instead of proposing a demagogue initiative, you ask the Council of Ministers, your party chief, of the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zlatko Lagumdžija, to submit a bill and to arrange it with your coalition partners at Parliament level. As an opposition, we are prepared to support it if it is a good proposal and to make a proposal for corrections if the proposal is not good. And that's the solution to the situation, that's how the state works. Switching from one to another, that's something else. Are you, or are we to blame here, or are some others above us in politics, I mean political leaders of parties, that doesn't matter. We raise our hands in this House. So the only way out of this, if it's not a demagogue, is to make a law that will sort out all the salaries that go from budget level.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20130	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20131	Well, since I have no other way to report then I use the replica, one part to support what the esteemed colleague Bosić said, another part to comment, or to respond to certain things that appear here. Gentlemen, we have a pay law. So it's not illegal for us to do this, we have the law. And that's why I answered the most, so I support this, if anyone thinks it's necessary to change the law, there's a procedure. The initiative of this kind, which the Proposer doesn't know what he's serving for, then he's pulling himself out, so we're going through it, so we're 58 know what the situation is. I've just calculated quickly, all the pausals of MPs from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, assuming that all 57 envoys are receiving the sheets, here I don't know if everyone is receiving, are less than 500 thousand marks. The foreign ministry's team is over 600,000 marks. What are we talking about? What are we talking about? So whomever you watch out for means, and we have the procedure as we can, so we can pass the law and say -- it's forbidden to MPs, members of the Presidency, we can, I agree that we can bring it, that they receive anything to participate in the institution in which they've been elected. And such a law can be passed, it's no problem, if there's political will. It means this one, but it's legally settled. Initiatives, I repeat again, I really don't know, I can't figure it out, I can, but it's too morbid for me to figure out what this initiative is for. I'm really morbid. What's it gonna be for, and how they're gonna manipulate that data tomorrow? Because what I just said, comparing the total amount of funds at the annual level to the national team in one ministry, is manipulation, I say. I admit I'm manipulating, so I know what that team's about. But who says there has to be a team? If we agree that we do not have to have salaries, so we, for the national team, use more resources per year at the state level than it costs a complete Parliament... We know all that. What do we end up with audit reports for? Why don't we insist on implementing our conclusions, why aren't we consistent? To just implement our conclusions, colleague Tomić touched in one part of this topic, so I particularly liked Mr. Kabil's debate, the greatest privilege being in this House. It's the greatest privilege and their honor should be. Therefore, materially it should be really in the other plan. And I disagree that, I think that the concept of collective responsibility has long been overcome, I am for individual responsibility and every representative, and every envoy, and every minister, and we do not take that we are all guilty, or we are all responsible. Each has its own contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20132	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20133	I didn't mean to pick up, but to a respected colleague, Bosić, about this discussion that concerned the responsibility of the position and the opposition. Well, you know what my colleague Bosić, unfortunately in this House, I don't know any political party to list which, apart from the Party for BiH, in terms of consistency from this call, was just the opposition. Everyone else was their own way of ruling and that's how it is in the overall situation. But I will also say that there are no saints, nor innocent, if you mean the opposition present, any, or the devil, in power. I agree with you that you weren't when the Pay Law was passed. I also advocate a fundamental relationship here. The position of reception and others, therefore, the rights of MPs shall be determined by the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs and each of its decisions shall be within the scope of the law. I also feel that, without any need here, we are having a debate on what this Commission should propose, propose measures, return them to their homes and make a decision on this. Legally, in order not to create anarchy, it is necessary to propose a law that would be consistent in..., hence key figures in the country, until, therefore, I speak at the level of BiH institutions, from the lowest to the highest level. But recently, therefore, you did not participate, because your MPs are not important, but recently, you have not been, recently, your MPs have proposed a law that in its own way introduces anarchy here. I was against the law, which was adopted by an emergency procedure in this House, 59 which gave the opportunity for the agency's director to have a salary,... already receiving a higher salary than members of the Bureau, and the deputy director of the agency at the beginning, without that 25 per cent allowance, has the deputy minister's salary. Then what are we talking about? Then what is demagogy? What do we want to send the public a message with? So, what I'm saying is that we're inconsistencies, we don't have clear attitudes, every story here for the media in its own way, everyone wants to have with their infinite greed and looseness the more they have to have. I'm in favour of introducing, and here's the truth about this law that I've stood up for here and asked for, which is why this law is passed. ... So which is why this law is passed in both homes by emergency procedure, rather than by individuals, we create chaos through it. [[You don't understand.]] Here it is, it was about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in BiH Institutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20134	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20135	Respect, Mr. Chairman. Obviously, this is a subject we should talk about. Whether the initiative will be adopted or not, I think some other initiatives have been launched or announced, which may also be in the light of changes in the law. And I agree with counterpart Džaferović that directly elected MPs have an obligation to be the first to talk about it. However, we have lost some focus on the initiative. The initiative here was not to provide transparent data, which has existed for the past three years, on MPs. This is where the initiative was to take a look at the ministry's expenses, see what the travel costs of certain assistants, deputy ministers. We know what we're talking about. We know we have government officials on board who spend 100 days a year. There is no need for us to feel responsible, each of us is responsible for what he did and what he did under the law, and if we change the Constitution, it will also be possible by law to change. And I support Mr. Živković's initiative, which is the way we can... I remember the last time we discussed this, that you were calling out if we were ready to go all the way. Are we ready to open the whole procedure regarding what is financed from the Budget of BiH. But each of us will vote on this initiative, and that's not even the end of the whole story. I fully understand the MPs who have said – for what I have done last, or done, for the last 3, 4 years, those who have chosen me believe that I have done it, or have done it properly, and that no one is asking the question of receiving. And I understand that completely, and I do. It's not good to use, I'm, there's no Mr. Lozančić, he admitted it's manipulation, it's not right to compare the foreign ministry team. It's not the foreign ministry, it's the entire ministry that's also a embassy team. And she's, and it's a Mr. Minister's mistake, which she failed to present, she's 10 times smaller than she was in the term of the previous minister. Therefore, let's also open it up to see and at the same time respecting that BiH's diplomacy is the least paid diplomacy across Europe and that we have ambassadors sitting around New York with a salary less than the salary of the MPs sitting here. But at the same time, it's the same as the salaries of some ambassadors sitting in countries where the average GDP is $3,000. 60 So, as for the SDP Club, we did not submit this initiative after the latest events in the Federation of BiH, and we do not accept that this is manipulation because of what happened after this initiative took place. I repeat, it was submitted in December. The goal was precisely this, Mr. Živković, to open the story all the way. So that's why it's not just the MPs and MPs that are mentioned here, but all those we can call, in some way, elected officials. And it wasn't going to pay that was easy to get, you can get it from the payroll,
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20136	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20137	but it was going to be received which included certain other things or, to be precise, at the costs that certain voters or civil servants have in the budget or withdraw from the Budget of BiH. Thank you for the minute you've allowed me to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20138	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20139	Well, first of all, I didn't blame anyone for this condition. I said there was an atmosphere of predators from the Budžet BiH at one point through high incomes from various officials. That's where I think about the agencies and the general costs, the general debauchery. And if you don't think so, we won't do anything in the end. Secondly, here is not the goal of finding someone who has a higher salary, so let's say – and look, that deputy director of the agency has a higher salary than, I don't know, MPs, so my salary is fine. Here's the goal of fixing the system. This isn't the purpose of presenting himself to the media to people who don't have a job or anything to live on, to present this list to them as much as anyone has spent. Here the goal is to create something behind which the state will stand, and the state should say – this is the orderly system, at the level for which it is responsible. I'm talking about the level paid for by the Budget of BiH. Therefore, it is not a question of who was then, who was in Parliament and who voted, who was not and who did not vote. Here, some of the SDS don't know if they voted, but there was, there was a general consensus of silence on wages and income at BiH level. Here, the public didn't know about it, I didn't know until I got here. For it is normal for those who have such incomes to think about, that they should not hear what I have outside. I repeat, I propose that Parliament consider its responsibility. Parliament can change the Constitution. Parliament can pass any law, it doesn't matter what there is of the Law on Salaries, I don't know, at the level of each of the institutions, Parliament can pass the law to abolish all these laws and that this is the law on how the salaries will be distributed. How many directors will have, how many MPs will have, that's what goes from the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So how do you get to that? Well, through Parliament's executive body, through the Council of Ministers, through the assembly majority. That's the way. You don't expect the opposition to make a proposal to systematise jobs and salaries in BiH. Therefore, as an SDP, you are an integral part of the assembly's majority, you are participating, even the most numerous in the Council of Ministers, please suggest, in 15 days, make a proposal 61 to fix the situation in the BiH-level wage sector. Here, we are ready to support, we are ready to make our proposals, we are ready to give our opinion, but don't expect the opposition to make something for, which is the work of the congregation majority and for which only the congregation majority has the capacity to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20140	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20141	Thank you very much. Although here we may be discussing too much, but what can be said in one sentence can be concluded that we are not doing well, not doing so in this country. I guess it's no secret. You don't even have to be too smart to figure it out. The burning building of the Presidency, you know, when the other praises burn, hold them, hold them to it. That's what it looks like by watching it from television, that's all, and then the third is saying -- so these MPs, they're guilty, they're doing something there, etc. I think the problem in the system that needs to be thoroughly renovated, repaired, should begin with the constitutional reform that we have discussed here in the previous days, and go things by thing and solve, in order to get at least as much acceptable system, where everything will be solved. These topics you're talking about here now or, here's what I don't know, initiatives, you can understand cheerleaders, you can support and find a hundred arguments for, and you can also find a hundred arguments against. I'm a legalist, and I think we should all be like that and respect the law. If we see that something in the law is wrong, then we need to change it. We've discussed the audit a hundred times here. The chairman said, we have this parliamentary committee that can present all the data to us in an hour to see if it's big, small or much, and it's the audit that works, analyzes. You know, we've been paying particular attention to the impact review lately. And that impact review says, gentlemen, which may need to be discussed more than what we are talking about today who will get political points or not, let's say, that it brings them to the table and say – this ministry is successful, this Parliament is not successful or how successful it is and why it is successful. What's good, what's bad, where the money was spent, and there was no result. And I think we should discuss it in that background. On the other hand, I want to say one more thing that is often clouded here, and it's giving the public the wrong message, that's why I'm saying it, that's what I'm talking about the privileges, the overpower. Guys, I don't have any privilege. I have a salary. If I have a separate life or, I don't know, hotel accommodation, we meet sometimes in hotels, so we can't all be Sarajevo. The cost is paid. If I had a shower, and I had to take a private man, because I have eye problems I can't drive, the man drove me today. I paid him for the night, I paid him for it, and for bringing me to the living room. It's not privileges, it's expenses. And we can't all be from Srajev. I hope not all administrations are from Sarajevo. He has the right to work in state institutions and work there, especially when people who appear in the competition are chosen, etc. So I think that those spins that appear on privileges and something, I think it should somehow lead to real relationships in the raptures that stand. And I think that the socio-economic situation in the country is quite difficult, but I think that many without, come on, quality cause or with other intent are used for certain purposes, from politics to something else. We can discuss it, I'm here to discuss it, if our salaries are big enough to cut them, if we have to give up... we'll give up, we'll stand by to do it, and the thing is we agreeing, what our colleague said, parliamentary majority. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20142	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20143	Here, I need to replicate a few things, or explain myself, perhaps in my own way, the last one, or the last sentence of my colleague Vrankić, when we talk about privileges. We again, and excellently... in this House, we cloud things on purpose, so now he's blurring it out. No Niko thought any of us did, and I don't think anyone thought we had the privilege if we don't even know how to pay for the apartment. And we need to work in BiH institutions from all over BiH. Through the audit reports we had here certain data that BiH institutions have seemed to me to have about 3,500 vehicles. From that purpose, the military and the police somewhere around 1,500 and 2,000 drove from this class one plus three or one plus four. Here, I wonder who's driving those 2,000 cars? Are those privileges? How many ministerial assistants are questioned by their expertise, going home today, or already going home, with an official car. I've come with my own, Mr. Vrankić. He paid him, he's four years old, on a licking, a monthly war of 2,300 marks, etc. And the one that's going to go, not just that, but on Fridays, he's going to leave and I'm going to end up in Neum, me in Makarska, back in my official car. How many civil servants, ministers, have had car accidents in various locations during the storm. Isn't that a privilege? Isn't a thousand marks of mobile privilege? We, when we analyse the audit reports, but unfortunately we do not analyse them, because we adopt all those 72 audit reports in an hour of parliamentary debate. And when we had in one audit report very clearly that the path of Sarajevo-Mostar-Mostar, Mostar-Banjaluka-Sarajevo 1,200 km, was written by the auditors or that Mostar-Sarajevo and back 360 km, and we all know that 260 and no one is anything. I won't say what someone stole, but how many times was stolen 500 km, 600 km, 100 km. What my colleague Kušljugić says, he says not only for us to see how much, but also for the quiet. Here I know, I know, I've asked that question, I know exactly how many men he's received in a month. I got an answer on the parliamentary issue. I don't have it here, so what now? What Mladen Bosić was saying is right. This Parliament should take responsibility, or parliamentary majority, and pass the law, all laws when it comes to putting these receipts out of force, and pass the law to behave in accordance with the time and state in the BiH state. If we are more paid than the representatives of the Republic of Croatia, than the representatives of Serbia, because there our colleagues have 900 euros, neither do I, nor I, of Montenegro's representatives, according to this and in this economic and economic capacity of BiH, then I think we should go from ourselves, and of course through these agencies, because it is our obligation and we can do so, if we are ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20144	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20145	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. 63 So we're talking about privileges here. I will personally tell you that the only privilege I feel here in Parliament is the privilege of being a representative. In any case, this salary, which is not small, I don't consider it my privilege, because the material alternative I have is much better than this salary I receive here. Therefore, from that point of view, this initiative, in my opinion, only makes sense as a reason for changing the situation. And right now, my colleague Živković has presented an initiative, and I believe that he will insist on it, and I will support it, and that these things are finally regulated legally and that we are not speculating what we want with this data that could come out as a cause of the SDP initiative. Because the timing of this initiative, so at the end of the term of office, reminds me overwhelmingly of a pre-election promotion. My colleagues Jurišić, uh, this morning he asked a representative question and of course I didn't get a chance to replicate at the time, where he called me and my colleague Bećirović, for dishonesty. I could also tell you now the same way. You spoke on several occasions in your discussions and replicas today about a warm meal in BiH's Elektroprivred Company of some, I don't know, 20 marks. When it's collected cumulatively, it turns out to be bigger than the lowest pension in BiH, but you forgot to say that your ministers run the company, so that's what you named there in the federal government. You also forgot, perhaps that your minister in that federal government so-called. He drives a more expensive car than I do as a member of the House of Representatives. And I agree with you that you need to go away from yourself. Here I now propose to you and my colleague Purić, on behalf of our joint club, that we give up all the privileges and representations and other privileges we have. Here's to show, it's one little gesture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20146	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20147	A brief chairman. So, about the remark that applied to me that I'm justifying our receipts in relation to some individual cases, that's not true. So I don't have any reserves to say that we have extremely high incomes compared to the overall economic situation in BiH. Whether these receipts should be revised, I said whose jurisdiction it is. If it is legal, then it is the responsibility of this Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, to propose one of the ways, and if the powers that are outside the law are, then it is the responsibility of the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs whose decisions we will absolutely accept after it is agreed, or proposes measures in accordance with the challenges and times in which we are in. One more thing, if I had no dilemma about the importance of getting paid to edit this matter, I would remind this House of Representatives, and in it most of the MPs, a large number of MPs from the previous call. I, i.e. my colleagues from the College, the management of the Finance and Budget Commission, when the economic crisis took place, proposed an amendment and supplementation of the salary law, and the SNSD club unreservedly supported the amendments and additions of the Law on Salaries, which provided for an extremely important procedure for all employees in the BiH authorities, whose coefficient is greater than 4, that their base for the payment could not be counted on the 535 marks, as far as it was then, at 498, therefore for the period from the previous year, and that the situation should be maintained until the moment until the law satisfied the assumptions. After that, what happened was that, only a few six or seven months after the adoption of this law which was actually passed by the majority of votes in this House, the Council of Ministers acted according to the law, returned the basis, not only for 64 bills of wages, not just for those up to 4 but for all, so he returned again again to 475 marks. It is also possible to do so now, and I believe that this House does not run away from the debate, nor from the legislation, nor about these issues that we have said, therefore, of the jurisdiction of the Administrative Commission. But I'm saying that sometimes constantly jumping up in it, I think we're in great error to have a debate about this, often explaining different measures that aren't systemic. Any non-systemic measures cannot send a convincing message to the public that we are for a systematic and responsible solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20148	I'm sorry. Comrade Dragan Vrankić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20149	My replica is my colleague Jurišić, that he once again... that a man understands what is abuse and what is something else. For the second time in Parliament, you're mixing these things. What you're saying is all abuse. If someone's gone, the clerk by his car private to the sea, home, it's abuse, abuse of position, abuse of that function, and privileges are not. The obligation is something else and the right that stems from some decisions. So it's all abuse and that's why they need organs to work, so I said I had a law and it should be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20150	Unfortunately, colleagues who applied used their business rights to both discussion and replicas, so I can't give them a word on any basis. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, it can't. You had to count better. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20153	After Saša Magazinović, you had a discussion and before Mr Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20154	So we can even take a break and settle it. We're going to the 11th point, and I'm actually asking the House if it's okay to bring the debates together from the 11th to the 13th point of the agenda. 65 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Don't throw your colleague out of your place. You had everything you can do on business. Don't throw away from your place. For 24, there were no abstentions. I find that we have united the debate between the 11th and 13th points of the agenda. Ad. 11. - 13. Granting consent to ratification of contracts and agreements
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20162	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20163	You don't have a choice. Okay. The proposal for a decision was submitted on 22.01.2014. From the House of Representatives, MPs Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, Lazar Prodanović and Zvonko Jurišić were proposed. From the House of Nations, delegates Staša Košarac, Borjana Krišto and Halid Genjac were proposed. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 28, v. 9, abstention 1. I konstatovati we've accepted this decision. 68 We move to point 9. – Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions 5. I konastatuj that we adopted this report. We're going to point 10. – Review of the SDP MPs' initiative at the 61st session of the House, held on 30.12.2013. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 15, against 16, abstentions 7.. I konstatuj that this initiative has not received general support, so we won't vote for a conclusion either. I would like to put the motion to vote on points 11 to 13 of the package. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 36, against 1, there were no abstentions. Who was against it? Dear colleague Azra, do you need any special ratifications to vote or yes?
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20164	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20165	The discussion is over, only to ask if you'd like us to put a special agreement to the vote. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20166	No, there is no need indeed, Parliament has declared itself. I only respect the conclusion of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2014-02-25-0.u20167	Thank you. Points 11, 12 and 13. – Giving consent to ratification of contracts and agreements. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 36, v. 1, abstention 1. I konstatovati that we've given consent to ratifying the treaty and the Spaorazum, from 11 to 13 points. 69 I hereby conclude the 63rd session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 13 March 2014. I congratulate all my colleagues on eight. Mart, and a nicer sex in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Session completed at 4:25 p.m.
