ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is an additional order of business. I give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u2	Madam President. We have been here a number of times today to discuss whether the debate on the consequences of the rejection last Tuesday by the Upper House of some changes to the Health Act would take place today. We have always postponed the final decision on this matter. As Mr Zijlstra pointed out earlier, it is obvious that debate is taking place today, but there should first be information on which the debate can go. That information isn't there yet. A solution is still being worked out. However, as a coalition, we think it is logical that we should debate this evening, before the celebration begins. For this reason, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to ask you to hold a debate this evening, at a time to be specified and after a letter from the cabinet. In this connection, I would ask the Cabinet to inform the Chamber, as soon as possible, by means of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u3	I give the floor to Mr Roemer!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u4	They're calling me against it. And still debating here? I would almost say with love and pleasure, but I am not going to sit here until noon or one o'clock to have a debate until tomorrow morning at seven o'clock. It seems to me that the Prime Minister must now come up with something very quickly and that we are also now agreeing to start the debate at 8.30 p.m. Otherwise, we're gonna be here for hours. We've been waiting two nights. He's just here to tell me how far he is!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u5	The majority requests that a debate be scheduled as soon as a letter is received. Mr Roemer wants a debate. There doesn't have to be a letter for him and it just sets a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u6	This is an extremely interesting dilemma. I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that there is now a settlement and that the sitting is not closed. In practical terms, of course, we would rather than not have a letter. We would therefore like to await a letter, but it would be a good idea to have an indication at some point when the letter will come or will not come, without having to arrange work every hour. We would like to discuss this for a moment and I would ask the President how to deal with it. It's gonna take a while, of course, but it shouldn't take too long. If it looks like the letter isn't coming anymore, the Chamber would like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-28.u7	I heard the applicant speak of "today." Maybe it's my pink glasses, but I'm thinking about a time of 12:00 tonight. Well, that's what I'm assuming. If I get an indication that it is going to take much longer and we really go into the night, I will contact the members of the Bureau to discuss how to proceed. In fact, that prevents us from being together every time with an arrangement, and it also prevents me from having to call the Ministry of General Affairs every half hour to ask where the letter is. That doesn't help the situation either. Let us agree that I am simply planning the debate if there is no indication before the end of the evening that the letter is there. I'd rather have the letter much sooner, but that goes for all of you. However, if I have any indication that this letter will not be received, I will contact the members of the Bureau about how to proceed. Then that's how we're gonna do it. That does not mean that the rules of procedure have yet been brought to an end, because it is wise to determine what speaking time we will have when the debate is held. We are assuming regular speaking time for a debate, which is four minutes per group and adjusted speaking time for the political groups consisting of separate members of a group. However, they know what legislation they are subject to. This brings an end to the regulation of work. Then I have a dilemma. We must now vote. I would also very much like us to vote, but I do not like to do that when there is no one in box K. At the moment there is a minister on the way... I see Mr Van Raak wants to go to trade-k, but then he has to stop by the King first. That may take more time than just a moment. We will suspend the sitting for a very short time. I'll ask you to stay close. You can only go to the Members' Restaurant. Then you'll be around when the bell rings and we can still vote.
