ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber, especially after I have just heard the debate, because it is prepared to deal with this proposal before the end of the year. This is also important for implementation should the proposal be adopted. I congratulate Mr Meijer on his impressive maiden speech. I shall deal with the questions raised in such detail. I will build up my answer as follows. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the main issue, the very broad part of the legislative proposal, which is the abolition of the compulsory WGR-plus regions in the country and the justification for it. Secondly, I will deal with the setting up of the transport regions and all the questions that have been asked about them. Thirdly, I will deal with the transitional procedure that will apply to the transport regions in the near future. Fourthly, I will deal with the progress of the General Measure of Governance. This subject has been discussed here before. Several Members have said something about this. Finally, there are some questions that are not grouped together. The main subject of this bill is the lifting of the WGR-plus regions. With the legislative proposal we aim to strengthen the main administrative structure of the Netherlands. If adopted, the plusregions Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Haaglanden, Utrecht, Arnhem-Nijmegen, Eindhoven and Twente will be abolished. The former plus region of Parkstad Limburg was already closed in June on its own request. The remaining tasks of the plus regions flow in principle to the provinces. The idea behind it is that the provinces are perfectly capable of carrying out these tasks, which often relate to the spatial, economic and nature aspects. They are also part of the core task of the central administration, the provincial administration. So that's the idea behind the bill before us. Mrs De Boer asked what the citizens noticed. The honest answer is that I think and also hope that the citizens do not notice so much about it. It's about how the board is organized. If it's okay, as a citizen, you don't notice much of it. You only notice that nature is in good shape and that spatial planning is in order, but you don't know exactly what is happening under the hood. Nevertheless, the consideration has been for a number of years that it is not desirable for such tasks to lie elsewhere than with the main administrative structure. As a result, a number of questions have been asked, which I would like to address immediately. Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question is actually one of the key questions. She says it's two-and-a-half. If the principle is that everything has to go to the main structure, then you must also stick to it in all areas. However, you can also pragmatize what is possible and what is useful and necessary and then you can see it. The government attaches importance to the principle that everything must go to the main structure. All WGR-plus regions will also be abolished. These regions have a large range of legal tasks, which are mandatory from above. However, the law leaves the possibility to invest transport tasks specifically with a public body that has no other tasks than those of the Amsterdam and Rotterdam-The Hague Metropolitan Regions where it is regulated by AMvB, as shown by the AMvB. This is a pragmatic choice which results from the idea that the citizen who lives and works in different places is served by it. He has to take the bus, the light rail, the tram or the metro back and forth. All connoisseurs of public transport in the Netherlands stress that in those two metropolitan regions it is by far the best to organise it together in such a context. This is how the municipalities have agreed. It concerns 16 municipalities around Amsterdam and 24 municipalities in the Rotterdam-Den Haag metropolis.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u3	It is not my custom to interrupt immediately after the Minister's first few sentences in the first period of his reaction, but in this case I think it is necessary. I did say it's two-and-a-half. I did not say that the choice is either fundamental or pragmatic. I've said that if you choose principle, you also have to do something with everything that doesn't fit in. However, you can also use the principle of the main structure as a basic model, but specifically look at whether certain exceptions are needed, as happened with the transport regions. This would then have led to a more substantive consideration in this legislative proposal as to why it is necessary to abolish the WGR-plus regions. We have noticed that the Minister is very radical in his principle that the WGR-plus regions should be removed, but that he is pragmatic, by the way, I do not mean pragmatic in the bad sense of the word "for example" in relation to transport regions and that he comes up with special arguments for this. Then say that it is not a basic choice of everything or nothing, but choose it as a starting point and more motivating than the particular circumstances. However, this should have been done for the WGR-plus regions. So it is not a matter of principle against pragmaticism, but of a starting point with particular reasonings versus a rigid principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u4	With this explanation by Mrs Van Bijsterveld I would certainly opt for the second variant. It is a pragmatic approach. The basic rule is that everything goes to the main structure, unless there are serious reasons to do it differently. Mrs. Van Bijsterveld is right. In fact, in every WGR-plus region that is closed down, you have to see if there are special circumstances that make it necessary to make an exception. We have made that assessment implicitly and explicitly. I don't think that's the case. Of course, some of the regions we eliminate fall within the Randstad. We'll make an exception for that. In the regions of Arnhem-Nijmegen, Eindhoven and Twente the moving boxes are already ready. I'll be right back to the timing. That is what is expected to happen. The county wants to do it, too. I'm not saying everyone's happy with it. Organizations, of course, always tend to say: we're doing well, why doesn't it stay that way? When I look at it through my eye hairs, I can see that there is a reasonable consensus about letting the province do it in those regions. I can therefore confirm to Mrs Van Bijsterveld that this is her second variant. The principle is the starting point, but you must always keep an eye on the pragmatism. So do we in this case. I'm going to go on about the WGR-plus regions. I'll be right back in the transport regions. Mr Koole, Mrs De Boer and others asked about the timing and said that it was not intended that the Chamber should be presented with a fulfilled fact. They're right. I said the moving boxes are ready. It is, of course, anticipating the possible decision on this matter. It was already in a previous coalition agreement between CDA and VVD. It is now also in the coalition agreement. From the provinces it has been called for. The House of Representatives has adopted the proposal, so perhaps it is anticipated. If you do that, you do it at your own risk. In the end, it's up to the First Chamber and if she doesn't want it, the law won't go through. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u5	That is what one does at one's own risk. However, the members of the First Chamber do hear this. We cannot ignore the fact that this is happening in practice. That is why I asked the Minister what the government can do in this particular case, but it is more common, to prevent this from happening in the future. If legislation can have enormous human consequences for a particular organisation, is it an idea not to let the legislation enter into force before, for example, a year after the adoption by parliament? Then you'll have the space and reduce your chances of achieving facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u6	I understand that reasoning. This will have to be weighed against the fact that, of course, this will also have disadvantages in the future. If you have already decided to do something, but continue with the old situation for another year, it also has disadvantages, for example for personnel policy. However, I understand what Mr Koole is saying. Mrs De Boer asked what would happen if we didn't? In practice, this would be awkward for the WGR-plus regions. Then there will be a somewhat difficult situation. However, she is absolutely right: it is up to the Chamber. It's just a bill, so it's up to the Court to see if she's convinced by the arguments. Mr Koole and others asked: how is it that these regions were set up with so much freshness at the time? This was due, among other things, to the abolition of the framework legislation areas, which had existed since 1994. The then cabinet, which was in 2006.............................................................................................................................................................. That's when this structure was introduced. In the end, the government's view is that, as a structural solution, it removes too many tasks from the main administrative structure. That is why it is desirable to put an end to this now. I would add that I believe that the provinces will be perfectly capable of taking over these tasks. Mr Koole asked me also to answer the questions of other questioners; I am using the order of the speaker whether I believe that the citizen's influence in the common rules is sufficiently guaranteed. The common arrangements are indirectly legitimised. This means that the directly elected parliament, the municipal councils, and the colleges that result from them together determine how they carry out these tasks. They must provide guidance and control. That's an indirect road. I shall come back to this later, however, when replying to Mr Engels' questions, a legally and even constitutionally anchored road. You can try to improve the practice of that. We have also done so with a bill adopted by the Lower House and the Upper House; it will enter into force on 1 January 2015. This legislative proposal will make the deadlines for, for example, the budgetary cycle so that the city council can take decisions on them in good time and therefore not for facts. Furthermore, this is not so much on the legislative side as we are busy working with the UNG and the Councillor.Now council members to provide sufficient information and training and training where necessary, so that they know where the room is to exercise as much influence as possible in common regulations. So I am not negative or cynical about the democratic nature of a common arrangement in itself, but I say that it is a step away from the directly elected city council. I once experienced this as a member of the common energy company Rhineland. It's a step more complex, but it's possible. Mr Koole asked if the municipal councils were sufficiently equipped. I have just said a few things about this, so I answered that question. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked about the extended local government and the municipality's vision on it. The aim of the WGR is precisely to regulate extended local government properly. It is the form of cooperation that the cabinet prefers. Every now and then there will be a need for a center municipality construction, where one municipality offers a product and in fact all surrounding municipalities buy that product without having a direct control over it. This has the disadvantage that the surrounding municipalities depend on what the city council determines in the city centre. That is why, in general, this is not preferable. In fact, this situation is likely to occur from time to time. I believe that, for example, Leeuwarden does this at some point with the surrounding municipalities, where there are good reasons to choose. In general, however, it is not preferable. The common system has a legal basis. It is a voluntary partnership between governments. It can often be very rational. If we want to organise the waste collection services jointly, I think that is completely logical and understandable. Moreover, it has a democratic direction, albeit with one additional step in the interim. I think that fits in with the image I have of the autonomy of local government, including the freedom to engage in partnerships on my own initiative. I also see that in practice it works well in many places. Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mr Meijer asked: how can we be sure that the interests of the municipality will not get in the way of the transfer of tasks from the joint WGR-plus structures to the province? Mrs Van Bijsterveld referred to a letter from the VNG, who expressed her concern about this. In principle, I assume that the provinces behave in the same way that they behave in the regions where there was no WGR-plus and that they do business in good consultation with the municipality. I have no reason to doubt in advance that they will do that right. I have great faith in the democratic process. If a province were to behave unfairly in this respect, I think that the members of the State who are coming from somewhere in that province will call the bell and say, "God, you're acting strangely. I'd like to make the following commitment. Should this fear, which is evidently felt in VNG circles, become real, I do not expect that to happen, then this can be addressed in the consultation on the financial relations between the Empire, provinces and municipalities and I will work for a good balance between the provinces and the municipalities. That is also an answer to Mr Meijer's question. My numbering was Mr Meijer's question 7. Mr Kuiper asked how the abolition of the WGR-plus relates to the plans in the coalition agreement for the scaling up of the central administration, the provincial administration. The implication of that is the following. The plans for the North Wing Province are not being implemented at the moment. If those two things are connected, how are you supposed to see that? My answer is they're not connected. I think that there are very good reasons why we may disagree on this in order to achieve a reclassification of the county administration, but these are not the reasons that force or result from the abolition of the WGR-plus regions. For that, the reasoning I have just given, which is to return those tasks to the main administrative structure, is decisive. That is the case with or without Northwing Province or other merger of provinces. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Engels for supporting the main part of the legislative proposal, which is the abolition of the WGR-plus regions. I hope to be able to convince him of the importance of the law opening up the possibility of setting up transport regions in AMvB where this is useful and necessary. I'll start with the legal side. I know the hesitations about the Common Regulations Act in the circles of D66. I also have a debate on this on the other side. You can weigh it differently, but in itself it is constitutionally founded. Article 135 of the Constitution states: "The law lays down rules for the provision of services in cases involving two or more public bodies. In doing so, a new public body may be provided for in the establishment..." That is the constitutional basis. It was then worked out in the law. For the transport regions, the present law, which we are discussing today, explicitly states that there is the possibility of allocating transport funds to public bodies at AMvB. In that AMvB a number of things have been laid down. I will come back to that later, but this concerns the WGR-plus regions. I will return to the transport regions later. Mr Meijer has asked whether I leave open the possibility of a city province. The answer is negative, because the intention of the bill is to return as much as possible to the main structure of the municipality, province and empire. Having heard Mr Meijer's speech, I would like to have an opportunity to talk to him about how you could do it all. I remember De Hoop Scheffer's proposal to make the Netherlands 24 regions. I hear Mr Meijer saying it was De Gaay Fortman. I stand corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u7	There were 25 of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u8	There were 25 of them. I am quite right to be corrected on two points, although I do not know whether that second point is justified. But if you say there were 25, Mr. Chairman, I'll take it immediately. I believe that his successor, Mr Wiegel, did not know how quickly that proposal had to disappear into the drawer. This would make the big cities provincial-free. They would be directly covered by the Empire as one of the regions. They're interesting variants in themselves, but I don't think they're realistic. In any case, it is not the choice of the cabinet to go that way. Mr Meijer asked whether the government believes that the metropolitan region or the transport region we are talking about should therefore be subject to an additional administrative layer. That is not the intention of the government. The reason why the AMvB has been added is to make that very clear. That transport region really needs to be limited to transport. Mrs De Boer asked an important question: why did the Minister provoke this conflict of competence between the province and the municipality? I would like to contradict the assumption contained in the question. On the contrary, I have the impression that we are now cutting a number of buttons and that we are actually happy with them in many regions. The debate on the WG-plus has been going on for a long time. In many places it has been said to me: no matter what happens, just cut the knot and we will know where we stand. We have chosen that these tasks should be returned to the provinces. Gelderland, Utrecht, Noord-Brabant and Overijssel have the traffic and transport tasks for the regions of Arnhem-Nijmegen, Utrecht, Eindhoven and Twente. So we're just cutting those buttons. In the Randstad, there is no doubt that there are still some heated discussions between the provincial government and the leaders of the big cities. Mr Koole also referred to this in one of his questions. I think that we are now setting out the frameworks. We recognise that in the metropolitan regions it is wise, from the pragmatisms, to invest the transport tasks in the partnerships that the municipalities have voluntarily entered into, i.e. with such a public body. But we do say that the public body should not become a pseudoprovince. For this reason, it should not have any other tasks in the long run. We have a brief transition situation. I'm gonna talk about that in a minute. I think that by setting frameworks, we will resolve the conflict of competence between the municipalities and the province instead of fueling it. I hope that this can be put to an end in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u9	For the second time we see the metropolis region passing. That's an interesting development. The Minister says two things about that. The metropolis region will become the vehicle for the transport region on the south side, but the Minister makes it very clear that it should not become a real administrative body. I understand that, by the way, because we will immediately have an additional administrative layer in the main administrative structure. However, if I see it correctly, there are all kinds of developments going on in the metropolitan area that are being made wider than just traffic and transport. From the perspective of the main structure and of concrete administrative developments in that region, the question is interesting as to how we should see the developments and, above all, the future of the metropolitan region, in line with what is now at risk. The road to an independent administrative layer, whether provincial or non-provincial, remains out of the picture for the time being. In between there is still anything possible. The metropolitan region is developing, but not purely and simply to focus on traffic and transport tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u10	I hear what Mr Engels says. I think this observation is correct in itself, but I think that we as legislators should be purely in it and will have to record it. That is in any case the proposal that there are good reasons to say: let the cities and the surrounding municipalities that have found each other in a cooperation for transport do it together; please do not say that from the province house in Haarlem will be arranged how the buses between Amsterdam and surrounding municipalities drive. Those sixteen congregations have found each other. Be happy about that, but let us indeed invest the task with a public body that has no other task. In doing so, we prevent, for our part, as legislators, from contributing to the setting up of such an intermediate layer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u11	I ask the following question in order to avoid any misunderstandings and uncertainties. That is what I would like to add to what Mr Engels said. I understand that the territory of the metropolis region, which is a voluntary grouping, is the same territory for which the common transport system should be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u12	That's the case. If we go into metropolitan regions on a voluntary basis, we will be left out of it and we will not be concerned with the question of who is joining them or not. However, these are municipalities for which, as far as the AMvB is concerned, the BDU tasks and the BDU funds are intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u13	To get it sharp: the common Metropolitan Region scheme, which allows municipalities to cooperate voluntarily in a wide range of policy areas, covers the same territory as the common scheme to be set up for the transport region.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u15	But the two common arrangements are formally separate arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u16	That's right. By the way, I am ahead of my second subject, but well, it's always a bit overlapping. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr Engels, would you like to say something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u18	The Minister says he'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u19	Yeah, I'll get back to you. I was talking about this in connection with Mrs De Boer's question on the fight against competence, as she mentioned it. I hope we can bury the hatchet with this. He's already been buried in a large part of the country. In the Randstad, however, the layer of sand over the hatchet is always thin. I come to the aspect of the factor time. What would happen if the Chamber rejected the law? Then there's a lot of discomfort in different regions. Well, that's no different. That is the risk they have taken themselves. With this I have dealt with the abolition of the WGR-plus. Then I'll move on to the transport regions. This has already been mentioned in the interruptions. A number of questions have been asked. I have already explained the reasons for dealing with this pragmatically. The reason is that in the North Wing and the South Wing there are fine-meshed public transport networks, which are not comparable to public transport networks elsewhere in the country. Municipal transport companies are also part of this. That's a real difference from the rest of the country. Mr Koole asked whether it would be impossible for other areas to develop in the future in such a way that they would also belong to that category. We don't expect that. We don't foresee that. As far as I can see, it's really gonna be here. That's a clear answer. Mrs Huijbregts asked about the important role of the provinces in the transport regions and how they could implement them. Firstly, it is the responsibility of the provinces and municipalities to establish a form of cooperation that fits in with the transport region. With the amended draft AMMvB, an important objection has been removed from the province. In fact, it was said that we would be faced with a partnership that would extend to many more tasks. That is not the case now. These transport regions will confine themselves to traffic and transport tasks. I assume that this will make it possible for provinces and municipalities to reach an appropriate form of cooperation by common agreement. If your Chamber is in agreement with the law and the legislator has therefore voted on it, a very clear signal has been sent to the administrators in provinces and municipalities that it must be set up in this way. I'll get back to you on that. News reports show that the province of Zuid-Holland responds positively to the limitation of the transport region to the traffic and transport tasks and that it would like to sit down with the municipalities if your Chamber agrees to the present bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u20	My group has just asked the Minister to give it its own meaning, to give it its own meaning of the concept of'meaning role'. That's in the law and in the AMvB. You'd have to have a statue of that. Just to say they'll come out, I think it's very thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u21	Let me focus, but I was just about to. I have been informed that there is a covenant in Noord-Holland between the city region of Amsterdam and the province of Noord-Holland. The province of Flevoland is also involved, because Almere wants to participate in the transport region, with money coming from the province. That is a good development. I can imagine that such a covenant would also be adopted in South Holland. I would like to leave the precise details to the levels of government. You can sit on the board of such a transport region, but you can also work with it in any way, as long as it is meaningful. I am glad that the agreement in Noord-Holland has been prepared and that people in South-Holland think about it in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u22	Can I conclude from this that the Minister is of the opinion that such a covenant should also be concluded in South Holland and that this is his interpretation of the meaningful role of the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u23	At least that is an explicit one. Can I answer it like that? I do not rule out the possibility of finding another creative form for it, but I think this is a good example in North Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u24	The Minister would like this to be done in the same way in South Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u25	I would like to see such a covenant concluded in South Holland, too, but I do not want to dictate that it should be the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u26	But it is the Minister's preference. He would very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u27	I would certainly welcome that. Mr Meijer asked whether the Metropolitan Region could take away opposing municipalities against their will. The short answer is no. Municipalities always decide whether they want to participate in such a partnership. This is also in accordance with the Common Regulations Act. I have already noted that, if a municipality says no, a complex process is in progress, indicating that the municipality has all kinds of interests in order to do so. That's not a compulsion. It's an urge at best. Of course you can. Can the Metropolitan Region function voluntarily, in other words, alongside the transport region set up from above? That answer is yes. We have just spoken about this in an interruptive manner. Mr Meijer asked about the position of Almere. As far as I know, Almere is also party to the covenant drawn up by the city region of Amsterdam and the provinces of Noord-Holland and Flevoland, which will be signed on 22 January. It contains a number of basic agreements on how to cooperate on traffic and transport tasks. Almere's money keeps running through the county. That is why it is crucial that the province of Flevoland is party to the covenant concluded there. If you look at the map, it is also extremely logical to solve it in that way. Should provinces on the basis of equality with municipalities participate in the transport regions? That is in fact a continuation of what we have just been talking about. A covenant would be an excellent solution. I assume that the municipalities and provinces will take the necessary steps in the near future. That is a bridge to the question of how to do it in the coming period. That's my third topic. With a view to continuing this route, it is important to be able to establish transport regions by 1 January. However, the practice is that in order to have a transport region that meets the requirements of the AMvB, namely no other tasks, you will have to set up one. It'll take some time. Mrs Huijbregts, Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr Koole, in fact almost everyone asked how it would be done in the meantime and how much time it would take. Strictly speaking, the establishment of a common system will take a few months. You have to go through all the city councils, because that always has to happen, but then you'll be a few months away. If the province is involved, it must also be consulted. I can imagine that the province will be there in the near future, until the state elections might be a little less head-on. Let that also lead to a delay. I would think that in six months' time it should be clear how people want and intend to do all this. Within a year, it should be able to come to an end. How do we then keep the finger on the wrist? I'm telling the Chamber I'm gonna keep my finger on the wrist. I'll report to the Chamber in six months' time on the state of play. Then she can look with me if she thinks that municipalities and provinces have made the transfer to that public body that has no other tasks. I have just said that I assume that the drivers too will realise that the legislator has spoken and that they are going to do this in a constructive way. If it turns out in six months' time, I would like to make the positive statement that we are not making enough progress, then there are several possibilities. You can arrange it by law, through the Transport of Passengers Act 2000. You can also withdraw the AMvB but then the BDU funds to the province will expire. I'm not up for that. I do not really want to anticipate the different variants, because this may provoke strategic behavior. I'm gonna keep telling the Chamber about the state of play in six months' time. Through this way I urge the drivers to resolve this with each other, along the roads discussed here too, knowing that in the end we also have the means to solve it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u28	What then are these means and what might the sanctions be? The Minister states that one has to find one's own way out of it. That's a good thought. You could provoke strategic behavior according to the Minister, but you could also provoke strategic behavior if you don't offer sanctions. I'd like to hear more about that. Moreover, I do not understand why the Minister has been putting in place a delay of six months in advance when it comes to the common regulation. There are provincial state elections, but municipalities can simply establish common rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u29	I'm underlining the latter. That is why I said that in six months' time we must and can be a long way. On the first point, I would like to point out that there is a certain battle between the provinces and at least the big cities in the Randstad: who is talking about what? If we state here that, if we do not get out of it, the money will flow to the province in a year's time, it could lead to the province thinking: we are waiting for it because the Chamber has indicated that the money will come to us in a year's time if we do not get out of it. I do not think that is desirable, but it is one of the possible steps. Another step could be to adapt the Passenger Transport Act 2000 and to regulate legally what is now regulated via AMvB. There are several possibilities, but I do not think anyone can explain to people on the streets who are getting on the bus, why such a fierce battle must take place about whether the BDU funds should go through the provinces or the cooperating municipalities. Let everyone keep their heads up and decorate this in a practical way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u30	I hear the Minister say two things. He states, on the one hand, that it must be possible to come to an end within six months. We had assumed that it should be possible within a year, but I agree with the Minister that half a year should also be possible. The Minister then says that he wants to keep his finger on the pulse, that he is going to report but that he does not yet want to include a wording on some specific measure, intervention or whatever you want to call it. I think we're skipping an option. The Minister states that in six months' time it should be concluded but that he will not anticipate certain matters. Can the Minister promise that if it isn't settled in six months' time, he will intervene? He may hold his cards on exactly what that intervention should be, but then there will be intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u31	I take into account the possibility that'sounding' means that in principle one agrees and that one still has to fill it out. That is why my proposal that I should be in the First Chamber in six months' time is that I see how keen the views here are to be informed about the state of affairs, assuming that things will be in order, that they will be ready or that they will be very far-reaching in setting up the transition. If not, not only the government, but also the First Chamber and the Second Chamber will be encountered. That's obvious. Then there are several possibilities for the Empire to intervene, but I continue to stress that I assume that the administrations of the big cities and the administrations of the two largest provinces in our country, heard this debate, are able to do what the AMvB requires of them, namely to set up a public body with no other task than transport. Then these BDU funds and tasks can go there and the municipalities can also do what they want to do together. In all of this, the province must have a significant role to play. We have the example of the covenant in North Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u32	I'd like to go the other way, towards the future. When the WGR-plus was discussed here, it was explicitly presented as a structural solution to metropolitan issues. Looks like we're gonna say goodbye to it now. As far as transport regions are concerned, we are talking about the embryonic phase of the establishment and the deadline we are taking, but I have a question in the light of the main administrative structure. How structural should the transport regions be in the eyes of the Minister in the perspective of other developments taking place in the Randstad? I refer in particular to the Metropolitan Region.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u33	I believe that transport regions can or should be structural. The municipalities are also free to cooperate in various areas. That's not up to us. That's up to them in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u34	I don't think it's possible. We, as legislators, are working to provide a legal basis for the emergence of transport regions. We cannot then say that it is actually a local matter for the rest and that we can see how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u35	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u36	Well, it seemed so. The Minister seemed to suggest that we should keep our distance from that, but as legislators we and as minister for the administrative organisation, the Minister has a responsibility to consider how the further developments fit in with the clear and structured organisation of public administration. That is the background to my question. The Minister has the plan to make the transport regions legally possible and then to put it down to local government, but then we have a responsibility and then we have to be able to consider how structuralally we should see that perspective of transport regions, including in the light of other developments that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u37	Do you have a subsequent question, Mrs. Huijbregts?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u38	No, I want to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u39	This was a question I have already answered. The answer is structural. These transport regions are structural. I added something to that. If municipalities voluntarily enter into partnerships in other areas, that is another matter. As far as I am concerned, what we are dealing with here is structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u40	Until the special common scheme is established in those two regions to link a transport region to it, the day-to-day management of the voluntary common scheme acts as the transport authority. That's a temporary arrangement, that's a transitional arrangement. It is perfectly normal to impose a time limit on a transitional arrangement and also to mention what happens when that deadline expires. You can't let that go. In any case, the legislator will have to set a deadline. There must also be an insight into what happens if that deadline is not to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u41	I have just said that I think we should be able to do it practically in six months. It should be settled within that time limit. You can take a margin and give it up to a year with Mrs Van Bijsterveld, but I think that's a long time. For this reason, I would like to report to the Chamber in six months' time whether it has been upset for a long time. I have just said that there are various means, both in the law and through the withdrawal of the AMvB, which we are at the service of intervening if we would need to do so. But I don't think it should come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u42	If the Minister says that it can be achieved within six months, what will prevent us from setting the deadline for a six-month period?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u43	I will do the same by reporting to the Chamber on the state of play in six months' time. In consultation with the Chamber, I would then like to see whether we think that there is far enough confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u44	I have an additional comment. I totally agree with the first thing the Minister said. I'm fine with that. However, we must also talk about situations that are unexpected and perhaps not to be expected. At some point there is a final perspective. It makes sense to draw together ideas about what should happen if things do not happen unexpectedly and unexpectedly as we now think they will walk. The Minister has indeed said that there will be several options on the horizon, but the question that is still open is whether the Minister is prepared to make such interventions if one goes beyond such a time limit. What if there's an unexpected stalemate? The question of what will happen then remains to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u45	The answer is yes. It is not possible for us at AMvB to say that tasks should be transferred and that if we do nothing, we should leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u46	Mr Minister, before you go any further, I would like to remind you that we have one minute before I press that alarm bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u47	I'm just gonna see how far I'm gonna get with the little block about the transition situation. We discussed most of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u48	Then you have about a minute and a half for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u49	You're gonna be fine. Mr Meijer asked what I would do if there were any quarrel over it, but that is in line with the debate we have just had. We have discussed the possibilities for resolving this. Mr Koole asked whether a transport region was voluntary. Yeah, strictly speaking, it's voluntary, of course. The law states that the tasks can be transferred if there is a transport region. If you're not, you can't. One can also determine it on the basis of that AMvB itself. The limitation to transport tasks results from the AMvB. This means that it is possible for municipalities to have other forms of cooperation in addition to that transport region. But they are independent of the powers and funds delegated from the Empire through the BDU to the transport region. I think I have answered the questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u50	I will suspend the sitting for a short time to give Members the opportunity to respond to the vote.
