ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. In 2010 the Chamber clearly rejected new pension directives from Europe by means of an adopted motion. Just before this year's municipal elections, the Chamber repeated that "no" and handed out a yellow card. After the election, there was a treatment reservation. The Chamber noted that the government had to inform the Chamber beforehand about the options on the table. And then there was a letter on Thursday with the following communication: there is a new draft directive; here you have 79 pages of new regulation from Europe on pensions; a few objections have been met by the EU, so the government wants to agree on Wednesday. Need a debate? No, of course not. With this directive, the EU is seeking to create a single market for pension funds.................................................................................................................................................................................................... The EU determines matters concerning the pension statement, the management of funds and the supervision of the supervisor and makes procedures that make it easier for a Dutch employer, for example, to set up a fund in Cyprus. Both the idiotic procedure and the proposal that we have only been able to examine in general terms is ridiculous. This weekend we found that three other proposals have been made in the last two weeks, about which we have never been informed in advance. I'll add them to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	Instead of adding them to the Acts, I will have them submitted to the CIP for inspection. I think that's a good idea. Then anyone can take notice of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	The government should have just informed us about this. I shall therefore table two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that 79 pages of European legislation on pensions, which affects the Dutch system of more than 1,200 billion euros, should be carefully studied and that a debate should take place in the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that there had been firm agreements on this matter in Room No 33931, No. 5;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to ensure that the IORP 2 proposal is not presented to Coreper or the European Councils before 1 February 2015, so that the Chamber can hear experts and take a well-informed position on it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Krol, Mr Van Vliet, Mr Madlener, Mr Ulenbelt, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Schouten, Mr Van Klaveren and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	If that motion does not make it, I am obliged to submit the following. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the IORP 2 Directive affects the Dutch system;]] [[noting that the Lower House with motion 21501-20, no. 862 expressed its opposition to this EU legislation;]] [[calls on the Government, not to agree with this Pension Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Krol, Mr Van Vliet, Mr Madlener, Mr Ulenbelt, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Schouten, Mr Van Klaveren and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Omtzigt. Last June, we discussed in detail the revision of the IORP Directive. In addition, I have been very well aware of the concerns of the Chamber. For example, there were concerns about information provision, delegated powers, the detail of governance and the impact it would have on pension funds, employers and participants. We have brought these concerns into the negotiations in Europe. As I wrote to the Chamber in October, steps have then been taken in the right direction. However, there were still important bottlenecks for the Netherlands. Therefore, before the end of November, it did not seem likely that consensus could be reached between the Member States before the end of this year. In the end, however, important concessions have been made to our country, among others. There is now an agreement in which the concerns of the Chamber have been removed. Those concerns of the Chamber are, of course, also included in motions for resolutions. That is also the conclusion of the Dutch Pension Federation. The proposal now before us is in line with the Dutch system, while the proposal for Member States with less developed second-pillar pension schemes can contribute to a more future-proof setting up of old-age benefits, which will benefit financial stability in Europe as a whole. I am well aware that the time to look at this is short before the Chamber. As far as the cabinet is concerned, however, it is not wise to decide at a later date within the Council. If, under the Italian Presidency, consensus is not reached between the Member States, a new phase will begin under the Latvian Presidency, in which the negotiations can return to an undesirable direction for the Netherlands. In addition, this proposal contains a provision which will not be reviewed until six years after its entry into force. This means that there will be no new, more radical proposals from Brussels for Dutch pension funds for the time being. All the concerns expressed by the Lower House at the start of the negotiation process have now been met. I can mention all these points of interest, but for the sake of shortness... I will mention them anyway. I think that's nice for the Acts. This concerns detailed and uniform provisions on pension communication. These have been substantially streamlined and reduced in detail in the current proposal. They offer greater flexibility to Member States. This means that there will no longer be any impact on the pension communication bill that lies with the Chamber. The broad and detailed delegated powers are in line with Mr Omtzigt's motion. The compromise proposal no longer contains delegated powers, not at all. For the Netherlands, this was particularly important in the field of risk assessment in order to avoid opening up to prudential requirements. A major step forward has also been taken in the area of the powers of the European Supervisory Authority, as the proposal does not include any new powers or invitations to EIOPA to draw up further rules on pension funds. Then there are the provisions on governance. The provisions in this proposal are largely in line with the existing Dutch governance requirements. These include, for example, the suitability of the administration, the rules for outsourcing and functions such as internal control, which are also in line with what we aim to do in the Netherlands. In the field of cross-border activities, important safeguards have been introduced for participants, including through the consent requirement of both supervisors prior to a cross-border transfer of value. Following the consensus in the Council, negotiations with the European Parliament will continue. Then we'll take another step. For the sake of clarity, I would ask your Chamber to give its assent to the move forward now, so that Coreper can do so. As has already been said, we have listened very carefully to the House of Representatives on all the various parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to respond immediately to the two motions that have been tabled. Then we can see if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	My argument is that I must discourage both motions because I want to take the next step in Coreper.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	A brief question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	Is it true that the proposal simply states that EIOPA can impose directives on the Netherlands Bank and even prescribe the wording, so that what the Secretary of State just said is not true? Mr. Chairman. Exceptionally, I ask you a question. Is it true that there is a retention of treatment with a letter from the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Knops, stating that the Minister would submit important decisions to the House of Representatives in advance? Do we all agree that this has not happened at all, that I should agree with one supplementary question here with far-reaching European regulation on 12 billion in pension assets and that this is not worthy of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	As I said, when it comes to the European Supervisory Authority, this proposal does not include any new powers for EIOPA to lay down further rules on pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	I've been asked a question. The treatment retention is gone, but it's gone. The committee has decided to lift it, so is my information. There have been agreements on this subject in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	Yes, and those appointments were put to the vote by you as chairman. It said that the government would inform in advance. I have just given you three draft proposals which the government has negotiated extensively without informing the Chamber at any time. Is that the way in which we, as the House of Representatives, should accept and are now faced with far-reaching regulations that we must agree to within ten seconds, with only one party, I say? The Secretary of State also had this proposal on 28 November. If she had just sent it to the Chamber at the beginning of last week, we could have had an AO. Is this how we do business here? Then why am I still here?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	I have a question for the Secretary of State. Can she confirm once again that what we exchanged in the spring and before that in the Chamber was deleted from the directive? So: no buffer requirements, no delegated powers, no detailed rules. If the negotiations and the trialogue show that the outcome is different from what is now before us, will the Secretary of State be prepared to inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	Let us begin with the latter: I am certainly prepared to do so. The trialogue can produce anything again and then I will of course return to your Chamber; that may be as clear as glass. I can answer the first part of Mrs Lodder's question in full. It is precisely in line with what the Chamber has given me in the negotiations, in motions and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	That is the end of this VAO. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions in a few minutes.
