ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. There are a few questions left about the WGR-plus. Mr Koole, Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mrs Huijbregts raised a question about the procedure. This is about the point that a concept AMvB was already drawn up before the First Chamber had considered the bill on which the AMvB is based. They asked me if I consider that to be a desirable course of action. That's an old discussion. I want to burn my fingers as little as possible, but I do have to answer that question. The answer is that the Cabinet, like previous Cabinets, believes that a draft AMvB can be brought into proceedings once the Lower House has accepted the bill that provides the basis for this. The text of the delegation clause will then be adopted. But then the examination of the bill in the First Chamber could show that it would still have to be amended. That's a risk for the government if she doesn't want to wait for treatment in the First Chamber. The position of the Supreme Court is therefore not at issue in that regard. The Council of State has already been consulted on this whole issue in 2010. It endorsed that position at the time. In the specific case, the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment stated in line with that view that neither the proposal for the opinion of the Section for Advice nor the opinion itself would create facts. Then I have a question from Mr Engels of D66. I was somewhat ahead of that non-verbally. He asked whether the government would be prepared to ensure, through a novelle or a non-entry into force, that these transport regions were not there. The short answer to that is no. We think it's really good that they get there. That is the spirit of the debate today. I can well imagine Mr Engels' reasoning from the point of view of the purity of the state. So I have also said that there is a certain pragmatism involved. Purity is a good thing, it is true, but it is also good for public transport in the Randstad to leave the organisation as one has organized with the surrounding municipalities. From the cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague they are urged to do so. I'd like to stick to offering that opportunity. Mr Meijer asked about the consequences of the development of cooperation between Arnhem and Nijmegen. These cities form an important twin city along the banks of the Lower Rhine and the Waal. They are currently exploring, as far as I know, a new form of cooperation after the abolition of the WGR-plus. They then talk about the urban region of Arnhem-Nijmegen. I follow that with interest, but it is indeed a collaboration from the bottom up. Local authorities are, of course, free to choose. Then I was asked how I look at the future expectations of the mayor of the growing city of Eindhoven. First of all, the economic development of the Eindhoven region is impressive. This also results in new steering questions. The mayor of Eindhoven has expressed opinions on the administration of the Netherlands. It's hard not to run into them regularly. It seems to me to be of the utmost importance to build good cooperation between Eindhoven and the surrounding municipalities and also with the metropolitan region, as envisaged in the Eindhoven Metropolitan Region. I think there might be the first accent, but that really is on the city of Eindhoven and the surrounding municipalities themselves. The last question, I think, is also from Mr Meijer. He asked about my vision of the future of the administration of the metropolitan agglomerations. I am pleased that Mr Meijer has asked that question, because today we are talking about legal structures and we have talked about classification and reclassification issues before, but there is a much bigger agenda in the area of metropolitan agglomerations. I have already mentioned that, in the context of the development of the City Agenda in 2015, as coordinating minister in this area, I want to come forward with an appealing agenda for strengthening the economy and life and well-being in the big cities. I take that concept of a large city ample, because if you look at it from a distance, the Netherlands is actually one large urbanized area. I'll make a move for that. By the way, I am going to discuss this in detail with the municipalities. They've got a big part to play. I do the same with other social partners: the business community and other organisations that want to join. As far as I am concerned, the Urban Agenda will also be one of the areas where we will pay great attention to next year's Presidency of Europe. I hope to return to this subject in conversation with this Chamber. I think I've answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. We would like to thank the Minister for his serious and substantive answer to the questions. In this second term, my group can be very brief. We will support the bill. We particularly welcome the Minister's commitment that he will monitor the transfer of tasks to the metropolis region, to the transport region. He will keep his finger on the wrist, report and is prepared to intervene if it is unexpected and unexpected. We also welcome the fact that he is considering whether there will be structural problems in the relationship between provinces and municipalities in the elimination of WGR-plus regions. We're happy about that. Finally, I would like to make one final fundamental point. I also think it is very useful that we have talked very well about the way in which we should look at the main structure. The starting point is that exceptions are possible in principle. They have to be argued. The Minister mentioned the burden of proof. One point that I would like to give him is that we would have expected that there had been a more substantive discussion on the abolition of the WGR-plus regions, but we can live with the result. We therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for answering the questions. I would like to congratulate Mr Meijer on his maiden speech. I just spoke before he kept it, so I can't congratulate him until now. However, it is heartfelt. Answering the questions leads the PvdA Group to support this bill. I have a few comments to make. The Minister also said that Rotterdam, The Hague and the province of Zuid-Holland might take an example of Amsterdam and the province of Noord-Holland, which have signed a covenant. Perhaps it would be useful if the Minister gave both parties, the province of Zuid-Holland on the one hand and the cities of Rotterdam and The Hague on the other hand, a boost. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to take an initiative to promote dialogue between the two sides in South Holland. After all, it should not be the case that there should be a back-to-back movement and that there should be no progress. I think it would be very good if this impasse would eventually be broken. A second point is that I am very pleased that the Minister has said that he is keeping his finger on the pulse with regard to the time limit in which this has to be done. The Minister has undertaken to report to the First Chamber of the House of Representatives in six months' time on the state of play. It is obvious that this will be far advanced and, if not, that something will happen. He did not yet want to say what exactly to avoid strategic behaviour, but the Minister will then take initiatives so that something happens there too. As regards the concept of the AMvB and the examination of the bill in the Upper Chamber, the Minister has repeated the formal constitutional position: that is the way we have determined it. Sure, it exists. I didn't ask if it was possible, but if it was desirable. The Minister may decide whether to reply, but that was my question. There was one more point I was arguing about: the voluntary nature of the special WGR scheme. In the first period, I had asked whether such a WGR scheme, such a transport authority, would only be established if the municipalities and provinces which decide to do so so so asked. If the government itself could designate an area where a transport authority should be created, then what is voluntary? I would like to see clarification as to what exactly is the voluntary nature here. But all things considered, we will certainly support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we should also like to congratulate Mr Meijer. The Minister has strengthened his answer to our questions on the interpretation of the meaningful role of the province: he has not only expressed his preference for a covenant, he has also said that this would be the best way. If we can interpret that as a commitment to the Chamber, we are entirely pleased. I would also like to endorse Mr Koole's suggestion that the Minister should play a role in this. The transitional period of six months is awaiting us with interest, given what can not happen in half a year. We also, of course, call for a leading role for the Minister. It is clear that if there is a positive response to this, my group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply and his compliment. In that reply he repeated several times a statement on the tasks of the WGR-plus: I think the provinces are perfectly capable of taking this with them. The Minister is right when he states that the provinces are tailored to space, transport and nature. But that has its limitations when it comes to urban and agglomeration issues. I speak from the practice, in which I have experienced this from two sides: ten years in the Amsterdam and Rotterdam municipal politics and thirteen years in the South Holland states. My conclusion is that the provinces are doing a good job, but this escapes the attention of the urban voters and that this provincial role for the cities is often a source of misunderstanding, delay and disappointment. Not out of malice or anything like that, but working side by side with different priorities. It is precisely for this reason that Rijnmond, the city province and the plus regions have been made up and that is why the traditional government parties at local level have so much support for the metropolis region. To avoid any misunderstanding: I am talking about the Rotterdam The Hague Metropolitan Region, which is now in the spotlight. To avoid further misunderstandings, it is precisely the SP Council groups that have turned against a strong metropolitan region with a wide range of tasks. The minister says he wants to return to the main administrative structure. This is also possible in the form of the agglomeration provinces which are now being rejected by the government. I still find it rather strange and rather sad that a Minister of the Labour Party is proposing to abolish what his party once considered to be very valuable. The Minister rightly refers to the three major cities with their own transport company. Unlike the outside world, the Netherlands is following European legislation, of which I, as rapporteur, was the author and which still allows public companies, in addition to a system of procurement by private companies. Does the Minister consider that transport region to be a protection of that Dutch right of derogation? That could make them valuable. Following the letter from the VNG: what is the opposition to the WGR plus funds for local transport tasks being transferred to the Municipal Fund instead of to the Province Fund, after which there will be another bickering between municipalities and provinces? Some provinces will cooperate fine, but others will not. That's a problem you'd better take away. In my first term, I started saying that I remember the future. I now focus on the future after the plus regions. My group could possibly agree to this bill if it had the confidence that the government would continue to work on solving agglomeration problems, eliminating unnecessary conflicts and democratic control of them. The Minister has only made a commitment on part of the first point which I appreciate. I know the Minister won't be happy if the Chamber asks him for a vision. However, I believe that it is precisely in this case that a vision of the future is necessary. Otherwise, everything that has happened over the past 50 years will repeat itself. I think it would be a support for the Minister if the Chamber were to give its opinion on the desirability of a coherent future solution. That is why I shall now table the motion announced this morning. Mr Meijer, Mr De Boer, Mr Kox, Mr Ruers, Mr Gerkens, Mr Elzinga and Mr Quik-Schuijt proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large cities and agglomerations in and outside the Netherlands are increasingly calling for attention to be paid to the important economic and cultural role they play;]] [[Whereas since 1965 plans have been developed and experimented with administrative structures in which large cities and their environment jointly carry out cross-border municipal tasks and in some cases also some of the provincial tasks, with the expectation that this will lead to a better quality of administration;]] [[Considering that the municipalities working together so far in the plus regions Rotterdam-Rijnmond and Haaglanden intend to form a new intermediate administrative layer alongside the transport region as from 2015 under the collective name "Metropole regio Rotterdam-Den Haag";]] [[calls on the Government to develop a vision on:]] [[the way in which administrative conflicts between municipalities, provinces, WGR partnerships and possible transport regions can be avoided in the major urban agglomerations;]] [[how to continue to promote the qualitatively sound solutions to metropolitan issues envisaged in previous laws and experiments;]] [[the way in which democratic control can be exercised by the electorate on the policies pursued in favour of the agglomeration;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33659-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the response to the contributions of the D66 Group. I would then like to touch on two small concrete issues, followed by a fundamental point and the conclusion. My first specific point is that I understand from the Minister that the transport region is seen as a structural solution. Again, that reminded me of the debate on the WGR-plus, which I believe we had here in 2006. It was also seen as a structural solution. This means that the adoption of this bill and thus the possibility of a transport region, as with the WGR-plus, will contribute to further administrative fragmentation and thus to the continuation of the shortcomings, including in this form of administrative cooperation, the most important of which are indirect democratic legitimacy, therefore lack of political control and regular doubts about administrative effectiveness. My second specific point concerns the metropolitan region. This is an innovative development in a metropolitan area, in this case The Hague/Rotterdam. It is a pity that the Minister did not want to give a perspective on the possible wish of the metropolis region to integrate, in the long run, the traffic and transport task which is now coming in through the transport region into the metropolitan region itself. That being so, it seems that the solution that we are now going to offer legally is in fact already behind development. That's an unattractive perspective. If the viability of the Metropolitan Region were to grow and the disadvantages of this intermediate figure mitigated, we would be taking a step today that would not help that process, but could actually frustrate it. The main element of my second-term response: I have provided the Minister with a number of fundamental observations on the two ambiguitys in the proposal. At the same time, on behalf of my group, I have identified it as fundamental. For example, there is a form of administrative cooperation which must be abolished as contrary to the basic administrative structure, which we support. At the same time, a different form, although not WGR-plus but a form of cooperation with apparently the same obvious disadvantages, is being introduced. That is a very important ambiguity. So it continues on the path of looking for ad hoc solutions to problems which are not unrealistic in themselves. I admit that to the Minister, and we accept again, but in another form, that we do not manage properly and effectively within the main structure. This will continue to present the objective and serious disadvantages identified by studies. To conclude, I will not ask for any more time, and this means that I see no other way than to advise my group not to accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions we had asked. Let me be honest: as a group, we are faced with a dilemma. I would also like to discuss this later in my group in order to show our position at the end of the vote. On the one hand, we also find a return to the main administrative structure to profit. In addition, the abolition of WGR-plus regions is appropriate. It is an old wish of the Christian Union to bring that clarity back. On the other hand, we see elements returning to this proposal which, as Mr Engels pointed out, do exactly the same again. We are faced with a dilemma. That's the main weighing we're dealing with. How we choose it will be evident in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. The minister said, "The moving boxes are ready, but at your own risk." I think that is a bit unrealistic, because today we are talking about the law. It's due on January 1st. The risk of anticipation is placed with local authorities. However, if they had not anticipated, they would also have run the risk. A legislation with such short introduction periods that places the risk of anticipating or not entirely with the local authorities, in my opinion, is a bit inappropriate of the national government. After all, they have to gamble what the final outcome is and anticipate it; they run the risk of doing so. Actually, I don't think that's nice. The Minister also said that this bill does not fuel the struggle but solves it. He then gave a number of examples, in particular from the provinces, where transport regions were established. I have received signals from the province of Utrecht, where, especially in the field of transport, as far as I understand, there is still the necessary friction between the city and the province, because the province is in charge of it, while the city has very important interests in the field of transport. I don't see one-two-three yet how this bill solves that conflict. Perhaps the Minister could also say something about this and indicate whether he can use a six-month period to see how things are going, for example, and whether there are other options. In theory, it would of course be possible for a transport region to be established there too. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say a few words about this very briefly. In his argument for the abolition of the WGR-plus regions, I think that the Minister is much clearer during the discussion today than in the entire legislative process. It is now very clear that we are going back from the tasks to the main structure. All the other arguments mentioned may have been a little extra, but the argument is: back to the main structure. In itself, we can agree with that. Nor are we in principle opposed to the abolition of the WGR-plus regions. However, the question remains whether the main structure offers sufficient solutions to the metropolitan problems and to inter-municipal cooperation. What we are very missing is that we are also thinking about how to solve this, apart from transport regions. We think it is very important that this should be done. That is why we will certainly support the Meijer motion. The question remains: what are we going to do? I don't know yet. In the course of the examination of the legislative proposal, there has been anticipating that the need that we did not see before has now been more or less created. We're being put in a bit of a state of affairs. We don't like it that much. I will discuss in my group what final consideration we will make.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u9	I note that the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has the opportunity to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contribution to the second term. I'll go through the speakers in order. I would like to thank Mrs Van Bijsterveld for her support. The commitments are in place. So hopefully we won't come back to it, but we will if necessary. I would also like to thank her for the support she has given to the consideration that we should not now choose the way in which it might be resolved if we did not get out of it. After all, it also depends a bit on who puts the spoke in the wheel. We want to avoid strategic behavior. The starting point is, therefore, that I will immediately say to Mr So I will also contact the mayors of the big cities and the CoKs, and in this way the provincial authorities, in order to urge them not to let it come up and settle this properly among themselves. That's what I'm telling you. I am therefore grateful for the support on this point. Mr Koole asked about the voluntary nature of the transport regions. The answer is affirmative: that is voluntary. The AMvB states that if there is such a transport region, that task can be assigned to it. But it is only there if one chooses to set it. Otherwise, it can't be allocated. I share Mr Koole's view that it is attractive to do so. I thank Mrs Huijbregts for the support. I have made commitments on the two points, so I will take the lead in ensuring that the intention, which is broadly shared by the Chamber, is clear to everyone too. I thank Mr Meijer for his input and for supporting the idea of returning to the main administrative structure. Of course, I find the suggestion to channel the WGR plus funds to the Municipal Fund interesting as Minister of State, because then they go from the I and M budget to the BZK budget. However, let it be clear that the BDU money remains on the I and M budget. This money may then be transferred to these transport regions. As part of a vision of the future, I have promised to come up with a Agenda City. Part of this can also be the administrative bottlenecks encountered. So that commitment stands. The motion goes beyond that and is in that sense somewhat similar to the previous two Vliegenthart motion, which called for a vision of domestic governance. First of all, briefly, it is in the coalition agreement and, at the request of the SP Group, I have worked out twice in a fist-thick report. At the time, however, this did not lead to the support of the SP Group for the concrete legislative proposals. However, on the point before us today, I certainly hope for support from the SP Group. I also agree that we will return to what is the crux here, namely the administrative consequences of the importance of the big cities, within the framework of the City Agenda. I hope that Mr Meijer will be able to live with that commitment. I would like to leave it at that as far as I am concerned. I have done my best to persuade Mr Engels to support this proposal. D66 will not give that support. At this hour and with such a full agenda, I do not want to provoke a debate on whether Mr Engels thinks that there should be more or that there should be fewer transport regions and WGR-plus regions. It is a fact and the position is clearly determined. If the aldermen Langenberg of Rotterdam, Ollongren of Amsterdam and Tom de Bruijn of The Hague may soon be able to report in their lecture that the First Chamber has supported the creation of a transport region that they so wish, then it obviously has not happened with the support of D66. Fortunately, however, there may be other parties that make this possible. Mr Kuiper said that he wanted to think about it with his group. I understand his concern very well. I hope that the scorching will lead us to use that term, which has taken place because we have focused the AMvB, which leads those transport tasks to a public body that has no tasks other than transport, so that the concern that apparently lives in the Christian Union Group is adequately addressed. I therefore hope that Mr Kuiper will feel that way and then support the proposal. To be honest, his concern is my concern, too. I believe it is a widely shared concern. That transport region is okay from pragmatism, but it shouldn't grow into some kind of mini-province. I agree with Mrs De Boer that anticipating laws that have not yet been adopted is always complicated. You can say that it was in the coalition agreement, although that does not remove all the objections. Anyway, they knew there was a Second Chamber majority for the plan. During the treatment in the Lower House, however, it appeared that the aid was broader. In this case, we are going to anticipate it here and there, but that must never put the Upper House in a position of compulsion. After all, it's up to the First Chamber. Mrs De Boer also asked whether discussions had been resolved. Because she mentioned Utrecht, I would like to go into that. For many years now there has been a discussion between the city and the province of Utrecht about who is going on public transport. I am aware that the city council in Utrecht has said that it would like to have such a third transport region. To my taste, we really cut that knot by saying that the fineness of the public transport network, including the municipal transport company, is different in Utrecht than in Amsterdam or in the Rotterdam-Den Haag region. That's where we draw the line at some point. So that's pretty clear. If one would decide to do anything, then of course in Utrecht and the surrounding municipalities, but the BDU-funds go to the province. It is then up to the province to make plans, possibly with the municipality. So we are not going to change that at any time, and that is why we do not need a six-month period. Not everyone will be happy with it.You always have to choose.But at least we've cut the knot. So that matter is over. I hope that we can come back to Mrs De Boer's wish to think further about the position of the city in response to the Agenda City. I look forward to that, and I hope, of course, that GroenLinks will support this important law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u11	I heard the Minister say in his opinion on the motion that he does not want a separate vision piece. Mr Meijer's motion refers to three points on which a vision is called for. Are those points that can be taken into account in the Agenda City? Can the Minister promise that attention can be paid to it in the Agenda City?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u12	Yes. Where the bottlenecks surrounding the importance of the city result in the need to re-examine, for example, conflicts with the province or WGR partnerships, it may be discussed in this context. What I would not want, and I hope for some understanding, is to write a vision piece on middle management. If there are administrative bottlenecks within the framework of the Agenda City, we can, of course, make full reference to them. I think I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-10.u13	We shall be voting on this bill and the motion at the end of the sitting tonight. I have another announcement for the Minister, among others. A MO is planned with the Minister for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Kieswet and the Public Authorities Act Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba, adjusting the rules governing the right to vote of non-Dutch citizens in island elections (33900), following this debate in Commission Room 3.
