ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. In De Financieele Dagblad this morning it was said that new companies and start-ups complain about the accessibility of subsidies and incentive schemes and speak of a forest of rules, impossible conditions, poachiness and bureaucracy. This is extremely worrying in a country where new businesses and start-ups are the main source of innovation, new growth and jobs. Despite all the fine words and initiatives such as the Action Plan Ambitious Entrepreneurship of the Cabinet and the Start-up Special Envoy, it appears once again that the Cabinet is especially good for existing industries and the established order of our economy. On the contrary, we should be fully committed to the strength of start-ups and innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. Start-ups feel absolutely unsupported. A Wbso application lasts three months. That should be three days. The Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland works pompously and the conditions of a scheme such as the innovation credit are virtually impossible. Moreover, all the schemes together constitute an impenetrable forest. These problems are anything but new. That is why I am once again asking the Minister of Finance the following questions. Why are all the incentive arrangements of the cabinet still so time-consuming and complicated? Why does the cabinet not succeed in ensuring a proper connection with the practice of companies and start-ups? Why does the Cabinet not make the many regulations that exist more easily understandable and truly applicable?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing, as you said, the Minister of Economic Affairs. I'll do it as best I can. That's quite a job. The reports in the newspaper this morning are indeed not favourable to the government, because there are a number of start-ups who say that the regulations are too complicated and too time-consuming. My first reaction to this would be that Economic Affairs would invite them immediately after Christmas vacation, if you like, to discuss with them the issues they have encountered. Apparently, the practice and the theory don't match. My second reaction towards Mr Verhoeven is as follows. He says that the cabinet is especially good for the established order of the economy. In doing so, he is failing himself, because the cabinet, in close cooperation with D66, has pursued, filled and initiated a number of schemes under the heading of future fund. I refer to the SME+ Innovation Fund, SEED Capital, Innovation Credit, Early Phase Financing and the Dutch Venture Initiative. These are all matters that have been given a further push thanks to the future fund. Honor to whom credit is due: also by D66, because the cabinet and D66 draw together in this. That is why Mr Verhoeven is failing himself. If you look at the arrangements, you will find that some schemes are still new and may have start-up problems. In any case, this applies to the Early Phase Financing. It's only been in effect since this summer. By the way, the start-up scheme is running well within it; this year's budget has been fully used up. To be of service to the applicants as soon as possible, we use a quick scan. People get a quick assessment first; do you have a chance at all? That gives some of them clarity. The rest goes into a serious review. Because it can be a lot of money, that is, of course, a thorough assessment. The money has been used up for this year. In the case of the Wbso Group, the starters are very positive about this in the article 'Article', we have to say that it does indeed take almost three months for a final result to be achieved. We're gonna see if we can do it faster. We're going to see how the rotation rate of applications can be faster, especially for these starters, who are in a hurry. But the arrangements, especially those for start-ups, are widely used well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	I am, of course, glad that the Minister says that on behalf of D66 a number of things are getting better and better in the field of business services. He's right about that; he's right about that. But I would advise him to listen to D66 on a number of other points that are not yet working properly. There's a chance now. We have indeed settled a number of points well, but at the moment I would prefer to talk about a number of points that are not going very well, for example the start-up envoy, Mrs Kroes. She goes to work to get the start-ups in the Netherlands. How is it going to ensure that all those start-ups do not run away screaming in a few months because of the complexity of all the arrangements when they find that swamp and do not find their way in the Netherlands? Of course, we have some resources. In fact, all kinds of new arrangements have been introduced in recent times. But how do we ensure that these arrangements are understandable to everyone and that you do not get lost in all these different arrangements, which are, as it were, an impenetrable forest? How's the cabinet gonna make that happen? How is the cabinet going to make it accessible and accessible to entrepreneurs, who work hard and do not have so much time to understand all these different things? That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	That is a valid point. I am pleased that D66 continues to support the cabinet on this point. We're in this together. EZ intends to create a digital window in the very short term, because, as Mr Verhoeven says, there are quite a lot of schemes, both in the area of finance and credit, as well as in the area of innovation and tax regulations. There are many schemes to support different categories of entrepreneurs. Its accessibility really needs to be improved. So we're going to show people a much more accessible way in what's going on and what can work for them. We are going to see if we can create a fast lane for starters and speed up the lead times of applications, especially for entrepreneurs for whom this is important. Finally, I come to Mrs Kroes, who we do not have to deal with all the tasks and all the homework. This homework is just gonna do the Cabinet. Ms Kroes focuses strongly on the climate and attractiveness for foreign investors and start-ups, to put the Netherlands on the map as a location for start-ups and as a good place to start your business. The homework we're discussing here is for the cabinet. The first step is to invite the starting entrepreneurs from the article to talk to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	It's good to hear that the Cabinet is creating a "fast lane" that wouldn't be quite my terminology and that it's going to increase the speed of handling all those requests. That is really important, because a lot of entrepreneurs say: at the moment I need it, I get no response and at the moment I am further away, I seem to have got it or not. So that's important. Let's talk about the digital window. We already have a lot of digital counters. The problem is also that there are too many counters. There's got to be a one-stop shop. As far as I am concerned, all the organisations that help entrepreneurs are brought together. During the budget debate, we have already discussed this extensively with the Minister for Economic Affairs. There must be one window, one site, one place where all entrepreneurs in this country and all start-ups can go. They need to be able to quickly see what's going on and what suits their needs. My question to the cabinet is when this window is available. When can the entrepreneurs who can come and talk to the Minister at Christmas end up at that window?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	I note that Mr Verhoeven often talks about this with the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is precisely the intention of the Minister of Economic Affairs, who carries out many of these arrangements, to bring together the Chambers of Commerce and the Credit Desk behind that one window. That is exactly where you will find the overview of the total of schemes and support for start-ups. I cannot say when this digital window will be in the air, but I will see to it that you receive a very short note from the Minister of EZ, setting that date. Again, the conversation with the starting entrepreneurs will take place after Christmas. The Minister of Economic Affairs won't be able to do it before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have visited many companies from the top 100 of the most innovative companies in the Chamber of Commerce. Like the Minister, I have noted that there is a great deal of appreciation for the Wbso rules drawn up by the government. In the initiative #StartupNL of the VVD we asked for more flexibility, because there are sectors where there is little knowledge in the Ministry. That's how it's gonna happen...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	What's your question? You need to start asking a question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'm gonna start my question anyway, because otherwise the Minister really doesn't understand what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	You have half a minute to ask a question, but you haven't asked it yet. Your half-minute is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	The question's coming. We have to get ahead of this. We must ensure that the Wbso evaluators have sufficient knowledge and that we make our arrangements start-up proof. Can the Minister indicate when he will be the start-up proof of our grant schemes? This is what entrepreneurs are waiting for, perhaps even in the conversation that entrepreneurs are going to have with the minister after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	As I have indicated, we are going to take action on a number of points. I would just like to mention the digital window and the heading through speeds. We are also simply going to talk to the entrepreneurs to find out what practical problems there are. Many of the schemes are new; they have really just started. In 2014, thanks to the future fund, the cabinet gave twice a boost to these schemes, the first 125 million and the second 100 million. We are developing this organization. It has to be faster and better. In the first months of the new year, we will continue to develop this organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	To clarify, I have a question about the new point of contact. That's not a new point of contact with Economic Affairs, is it? I can assume that this window will be in line with the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, the employers' organizations and Economic Affairs together. So there won't be a new window?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	That is correct, it is a one-stop shop, where we ensure that it gives access to all the credit facilities that are now available. There are quite a few of them, as Mr Verhoeven rightly said. I also mention innovation subsidies and the fiscal instruments, so that people are also informed about them. This is done together with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, so that there is one place where the information becomes available.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	I thank the Minister for the answers and for coming to the Chamber.
