ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome both initiators of this bill. I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, who is also the adviser to the proposers on this point. I would also like to welcome the support of the initiators, who are here tonight in Box K. These are Mrs Wiskerke, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Boon. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD Group. It's his maiden speech. In this house, that means he can't be interrupted during his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "In my opinion, the deepest essence of democracy is even more to be found in its tolerance, in its respect for the personality of every human being, than in the majority principle. A democracy without respect for the personality of every human being is betraying its own being." Previous quote is from the speech that former SDAP member George van den Bergh held in 1936. He held that speech in accepting his position as professor at the University of Amsterdam. He grabbed that moment with both hands. He did this in order to warn against non-democratic parties, which at that time was not without risk and was therefore courageous. Unfortunately, the professor's office filled George van den Bergh only briefly. Because of his Jewish background, he was fired a few years later as an official. The loss of respect for the personality of every human being, for which he had warned, he thus found himself. Despite staying at Buchenwald concentration camp, he survived the war. Afterwards, he resumed his work as a professor. I quote Van den Bergh's inaugural speech because I want to pay him my respects at this special moment for me. I'm also quoting him because I want to tell you a little secret. I have been allowed to stand in this special place once before. Mr President, at that time the current Minister for Finance was sitting in your seat. I was standing here as a student of the Law Faculty of the University of Amsterdam. With a fictional group, we participated in a real debate, which was justified by former Chamber Chairman Frans Weisglas, among others. The debate at that time was about the desirability of banning or abolishing political groups because of unequal treatment based on race or sex. The inaugural speech by George van den Bergh came in handy in the preparation of that debate. Now that I'm officially here for the first time, I owe a word of thanks. You may be solely responsible, but no one can do it alone. Every human being, every MP needs people around him. Those people have always been there, thank God. If the VVD had not believed and invested in me, I would never have become party chairman in the district of Amsterdam-Zuid, let alone a member of the Lower House. If my parents hadn't given me the chance to watch live, I wouldn't have been here. And if my friend is sitting here in the room, if he hadn't supported me to embrace politics or just forget it, I would have been here alone. Not only outside the Chamber, but also within the Chamber, I know my support. From the lack of support from politicians, which you often read about, I find little. On the contrary, support from our group staff is in one word class. However, without the commitment of the messengers, the security guards, the restaurant staff and all other officials, I would never have felt as welcome and safe as I felt here from day one. Therefore, through you, Mr President, I would like to express the greatest possible appreciation to them. Not only as a politician, but also as a human being I have always felt at home with the VVD. I would like to briefly consider the question of why. I refer to Molly Geertsema who died in 1991. The VVD'er Molly Geertsema said: I mind if people are treated differently because of something they can't do anything about. He not only confessed that with words, but also with deeds. It was VVD'er Molly Geertsema who largely contributed to the repeal of Article 248bis of the Penal Code in 1971. Because of that article, homosexual contact was punishable if one of the two partners was under 21 years of age. The purpose of this article was to prevent the spread of homosexual temptation. Thanks to Molly Geertsema, it was recognised that Article 248a of the Code of Criminal Law was incompatible with the requirements of rigour, determination and, not least, randomness to be imposed on criminal law. In doing so, the so-called homosexual fornication article was contrary to the basic principles of criminal law itself. Molly Geertsema saw that. The freedom Molly Geertsema then stood up for, a freedom that also affects me personally, is the freedom to be yourself. The freedom that Molly Geertsema advocated illustrates exactly the respect for the personality of every human being that George van den Bergh had advocated more than 30 years earlier. That freedom at the VVD is in good hands proved to me Frits Bolkestein. I admired him because he stated in 1991 not only that minorities are entitled to their own food, their own religion and their own costumes, but also that they need to adapt to Dutch fundamental values, such as the equality of men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals and believers and non-believers. Bolkestein had guts, typical VVD guts. Like Molly Geertsema, he had the nerve to name problems instead of turning around them, let alone walk away from them. He had the guts to fit a party that not only wants to find something but also wants to achieve something. As a Member of Parliament, I hope to be able to stand in the shadow of Van den Bergh, Geertsema and Bolkestein. I have the honour to be here tonight to discuss the initiative proposal for acquisition fraud. The damage resulting from acquisition fraud is estimated at EUR 400 million. Those who go to court have too much difficulty in asserting their rights. They only succeed in this sporadic manner. That is because it is now too difficult for corrupted entrepreneurs to prove acquisition fraud. The number of successful procedures can be counted on one hand. The fraud is the laughing third. Our former colleague Ad Koppejan saw that this situation could not continue. And these two initiators saw that. This proposal for an initiative can therefore count on the appreciation of our group. If the present bill comes into force, fraudsters can be traced and prosecuted more easily and more often, and therefore stopped. What exactly is acquisition fraud? Perhaps it would be useful to clarify this with an example. What if you're a contractor? One day you will receive an email to check your address details for a particular database. You're busy and you confirm your address details in the database; a database that doesn't even appear to exist later. Two weeks later you will receive an account of €3,900. That this form of fraud, acquisition fraud, to be precise, feels unfair, may be clear. However, under current legislation, you are too often simply stuck with an agreement that you did not want, while the agreement is deliberately based on misleading information. In 2012, there were 27,000 reports of this type of fraud. The actual number of times it occurs will be even higher. If you then report to the police as a corrupted entrepreneur, it cannot do anything about this in the current situation, because there is no criminal offence. Even in the civil courts, in many cases, you can't do anything to get you justice. The fraudster goes free and the entrepreneur is left with the consequences. But the damage goes beyond the financial. The entrepreneur has the feeling that he's been tricked and, more importantly, that he can't go anywhere. That not only affects him in his wallet, but also in his sense of justice. Now you can say that in the simple example I have just outlined, the entrepreneur must be careful to see how fraud attempts are being made in good time. The proposal before us therefore raised the question of the extent to which this proposal reduces its own responsibility to pay attention as an entrepreneur to what you agree with and with whom you go. How do the proposers view this own responsibility? Do they share the view that it is at its core the entrepreneur himself and remains vigilant for attempts at acquisition fraud, as for other forms of fraud? Is this bill not, in this way, a complement to rather than a replacement of the entrepreneur's own responsibility? In the eyes of the VVD Group, this bill enables the entrepreneur to fulfil his own responsibility better than he has been able to do so far. Unlike now, he's gonna be able to get his rights more often. This is a gain for the tens of thousands of large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises which face annual acquisition fraud. It is nice that the SP and the VVD work together on profits for small and medium-sized enterprises. This bill is based on the principle that it is misleading to withhold essential information from the other party when concluding a contract. That kind of information should be in place in the agreement. Anyone else remembers that information is in the middle of deception. An agreement based on deception does not need to be maintained as far as my group is concerned. However, in my group's view, we are not yet there with the establishment of principles. In order to tackle acquisition fraudsters, it is necessary to increase the willingness of the injured to make a declaration. The proposed legislative changes can then lead to results and be effective. What do the initiators think about encouraging the willingness to report to entrepreneurs? What lessons can the Netherlands draw from experience in countries where acquisition fraud has already been added to the law as a separate form of fraud? My group is thinking, for example, of Austria. Do the initiators share the view that the effectiveness of the proposed articles depends heavily on how entrepreneurs, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are going to apply them? The question is therefore what the initiators expect or hope to expect from the legal form of acquisition fraud. My group looks forward to answering its questions by the initiators. I thank them once again for the effort they have made to get as far as they are today. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who have made the effort to be here or to listen in any other way. I'm honored to be standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Van Wijngaarden. I would like to congratulate you on this maiden speech. There was nothing to suggest that it was the first time you stood here, but you yourself indicated that you were standing here once before. It was of unprecedented tranquility and you kept a very beautiful, personal story. Thank you for that. I shall now suspend the sitting so that the other Members can also congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt and heartfelt compliments for Mr Van Wijngaarden's beautiful maiden speech. He spoke very nicely. Among other things, he mentioned the members of the political group and the staff of the Chamber. I like that he has an eye for them in his maiden speech. In addition, there were some deeper layers in his speech about principles, ideals and guts. The speech also became very concrete, because this debate is about a beautiful, concrete subject, namely acquisition fraud. That's a nice subject to have a maiden speech on. I therefore express the hope and wish that Mr Van Wijngaarden will still often express positions which I can wholeheartedly endorse. Once again, I congratulate Mr Van Wijngaarden on his maiden speech. I'm gonna give you another compliment and then I'm gonna stop. This compliment applies, of course, to the authors of this initiative law, Foort van Oosten and Sharon Gesthuizen, and also to the support, Sander Gesthuizen, Christel Wiskerke and Jasper Boon. I know how hard this has been, and that is why I pay a great compliment. I am a little proud, not only of these colleagues, but also of the fact that I myself, as a policy officer, have been able to contribute to this initiative law. The SP considers it urgently necessary to combat fraud thoroughly. It's a mean form of crime. This form of fraud not only affects confidence in trade, but also between people and businesses in society. If you're screwed, you're gonna lose that trust. Moreover, people lose confidence in the government if they feel that fraud is not being tackled effectively. Acquisition fraud is one of many forms of fraud. It's been discussed for a long time. Since 2001, we have found the problem of ghost invoices with the term "acquisition fraud" in parliamentary documents. Since 2007, it has become a more important issue and has been reflected in parliamentary questions and debates. Especially the CDA, the PvdA, the VVD and the SP are concerned about this annoying form of crime, because that's what it is. I would like to emphasise the CDA here, just like Mr Van Wijngaarden. After all, the CDA has repeatedly and explicitly called for attention to be paid to this important issue. In particular, the Koppejan initiative paper should be mentioned here, which contains valuable suggestions. In May 2012, the SP wrote its own note. Read the fine print. This note also included proposals to better tackle acquisition fraud. However, the result was not exactly what we had hoped for. There was no immediate improvement in the way fraudsters were dealt with. Above all, I have kept in mind that we, Sharon Gesthuizen and I, were subpoenaed on this note. We had to answer to the President of the Court of First Instance in response to the question on the basis of which we mentioned facts of general knowledge in this note. For the sake of clarity, this was the well-known Telephone Guide. He made use of a different extension, namely ".com" instead of ".nl" and therefore created uncertainty. I found and think it the reverse world that we had to justify ourselves before the courts rather than the company that used unfair commercial practices that we mentioned as an example in this note. What a brutality! That case only strengthened Sharon Gesthuizen and me in the view that the fight against acquisition fraud deserves a clear legal basis. It better be clear that it's forbidden. After this note we started working on this and a wonderful collaboration has developed between the VVD and the SP. It is not a criminal offence, which is expressly prohibited, because it is not a criminal offence. Therefore, that uncertainty could arise at that time in the Court of Justice of the European Communities. This is also reflected in another case that is very important for this issue, namely the judgment of the North Netherlands Court of 20 February 2013. Besides, that was another case against Phoneguide.com. The facts are that a director of a foundation was contacted by Phoneguide.com about advertising opportunities on the website. On the same day, Telefoongids.com sent by fax an offer asking...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In very small print it was mentioned that on the website of Phoneguide.com an advertisement of the foundation would be mentioned for the duration of 36 months at a price of €150 per month; a classic case of acquisition fraud. The court found in this case that acquisition fraud is a major problem for society that causes serious damage and that consumers are protected by the Unfair Commercial Practices Act, but that this protection does not apply to companies. I quote one rule in the judgment: "But the fundamental decision that groups other than consumers should also be given additional protection goes beyond the legal form of the court'. Furthermore, the court also notes in general terms that it is desirable that further measures be taken to end acquisition fraud. We are here today because acquisition fraud is a serious problem and is causing a great deal of damage, and because it is up to the legislator to protect entrepreneurs from malicious practices. That is why the SP welcomes this bill. The best known example of acquisition fraud is the ghost note: an offer that resembles an invoice. The layout suggests that it is an invoice, but the fine print shows that it is an offer, an offer. There's no legal obligation to pay, but that's what it looks like. If you pay, you're tied to an expensive deal. There are countless examples of this. Many entrepreneurs have suffered from this. Not only entrepreneurs, but also hospitals, schools and ministries have become victims. I brought you an example. The letter I have here is from the Central Business Register. This company sends an invoice, like so many companies. At least that's what it looks like. As an entrepreneur, you are asked to pay €279. In very small print it says: "If you agree to this offer, please transfer the amount within 14 days." The crux is in the word "offer." There's no payment obligation, but you think there is. Entrepreneurs who buy it and pay it are stuck with it. They feel stupid and caught. They got caught, but they sure as hell ain't. It could happen to anyone. The fraudsters have a sophisticated way of working which also often changes. They call at a busy time, on Friday afternoon, and are masters of building confidence and mirroring things more beautifully than they really are. That a lot of people fall for it, it's clear from the estimated damage. Estimates range from 400 to 600 million euros per year. This has got to stop. This law will hopefully contribute to this. How should we tackle acquisition fraud? As far as the SP is concerned, the emphasis should remain on preventing people from falling for it. We do that by raising awareness of the problem and informing people. The Chambers of Commerce can play a role in this, but certainly also the Fraud Help Desk, formerly the Support Point Acquisition Fraud. This helpdesk is something I would like to emphasise here. Information is very well and badly needed, but we cannot limit it to that. Information can never be so excellent that everyone is reached and that everyone is made so aware that no one falls for it anymore. As the current civil and criminal provisions are found to be inadequate, a new law is necessary. The proposers have made this law. I particularly like the combination that has been chosen for the law. The law contains a civil law provision which puts entrepreneurs themselves in a position to come to terms with the agreement if they have been misleadingly created. The law also contains a provision of criminal law. It's necessary to deal with the really big guys behind this. The new second and third paragraphs of Article 194 of Book 6 of the Civil Code give entrepreneurs the protection they need. Consumers already have these under the Unfair Commercial Practices Act. However, there is no good justification for not providing the same protection for entrepreneurs. So they get it with this law. From now on, economic operators who have entered into an agreement on the basis of misleading communications can easily conclude that agreement. There has then been an unlawful act. That also applies when there is a fine print. Article 194 of book 6 covers this in as many variants as possible. So entrepreneurs are put in a position not to have to pay as soon as they find out they've been cheated. Moreover, the reverse burden of proof applies: the misleading party must demonstrate that its information was clear and complete. That won't be difficult if there was a normal, honest way of doing things. If that is not the case, the fraudster will not be able to provide the evidence and no one will be misled. That's exactly the point. Perhaps the proposers could further explain their expectations of the new civil law provision. How will it work in practice? Is it going to be easy enough to use this as an entrepreneur? What happens in case you've already paid as an entrepreneur? What about legal? The final part of the approach to acquisition fraud is the new penalty clause. There will be a new article 326d in the Code of Criminal Law. I think introducing such a new sentence is a good thing, because if you limit yourself only to a civil provision, there is no deterrent effect. By which I mean that the fraud can try as often as he likes. If he sends thousands of ghost notes and pays a small part of the recipients because they don't notice anything, then no one can make that fraud. And, of course, that's not possible. It is precisely in the case of large-scale disadvantage that action is needed so that money earned by criminals can be taken away. That's fair. I would add that we should not have excessively high expectations of criminal law. This is true in general terms, but especially now that there has been cuts in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. And justice is also under pressure. The SP is against it, but it is the case. So we cannot expect the police to launch a large-scale investigation at every ghost bill, but we do not need to. However, if there is large-scale fraud by large criminal gangs, then I think there will be a time when criminal action is necessary. There's got to be a way to deal with the big boys with a hell of a punishment threat. This may have a deterrent effect. The fraudster must bear a heavy fine and possibly prison sentence if there is evidence of "some deceptive act of deception for the purpose of illegally favouring himself in order to persuade another person acting in the exercise of a profession, business or organisation to make a payment." So much for the new description of the applicants' crime. If this is fulfilled, the fraudster may be punished by a prison sentence of not more than two years or a fine of the fifth category. I have a question for the authors, but also for the Minister. Are there any ways to get through to the bank account number? Can we work with the banks to deal with criminals who commit acquisition fraud? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	The CDA welcomes the initiative taken by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten, but I ask Mr Van Nispen how he assesses the criminal instruments. The maximum prison sentence is two years and no pre-trial detention is possible. So people walk right out the door. How does the SP see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is good to hear that Mr Oskam is enthusiastic about the Gasthuizen/Van Oosten initiative. I didn't expect and hoped otherwise either. The criminal threat of two years imprisonment and a fine of the fifth category fits into the system of similar offences in the same department: fraud, fraud, etc. Mr Oskam knows the main rule for remand like no other. It is only with a maximum sentence of four years that provisional detention is possible. Mr Oskam has in part No. I have tabled an amendment, which I will look very closely at. This amendment will also allow for provisional detention for this offence. This makes it an exception, which is mentioned separately. I want to think carefully about the advantages and disadvantages, but I have not yet decided on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	We are very pleased about this very nice initiative, but the practice is, of course, very reckless. People who commit this kind of crime, who will hopefully be criminalised, will change their names and places of residence and will be difficult for the police to trace. They'll be invited to the station, they won't come and we'll be loose hands. Then it becomes a bit of an empty cigar. I believe that more tools are needed, and I hope that Mr Van Nispen will give this some thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	I certainly want to think about that, but first I want to say something about it. Mr Oskam now speaks of a cigar from his own box, but it is absolutely not. A two-year sentence threat isn't easy. Other fraud offences are also subject to penalties. Two years, I think, fits very well into the system. I would like to see this maximum sentence, two years in prison and also a fine of up to €810,000 imposed. We can, of course, do a competition here about who imposes the highest penalty. This bill explicitly criminalizes acquisition fraud. It hasn't been that for a while. I think it is very good that we now have a clear sentence, which was really missed in practice. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	My question was not so much about the level of punishment as about the instruments that the police can use. As Mr Van Nispen outlined, it is the practice that the police invite the possible suspect and that they do not then come. There won't be a case. Of course, that case can be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and can still be brought to justice, but the prosecution will always say: we want the defendant to be heard. The case will then lie down, lie down, and the victim will suffer as well. If you applied for remand, someone could be detained in the act and taken into insurance. You'll have a lot more resources to deal with these types of frauds.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	Once again, I would like to think about the advantages that Mr Oskam attaches to his amendment. However, I do not entirely follow the reasoning, because it would mean that we would not be able to deal with almost all the offences in which there is no pre-trial detention, and there are a lot of them in the Criminal Code. Mr Oskam's assertion is a little too easy for me, but I am open to his idea and therefore I am certainly curious about the reaction of the authors to the amendment. Perhaps the Minister, as an advisor to the proposers, would also like to say something about it. I will then, of course, think about it further. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to list those who are all happy with this law. This law has been welcomed with cheers by the Fraudhelpdesk, the Acquisition Fraud Support Center and the business community, as VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands have also provided a clear statement of support by letter. They welcome the initiative law. The Chamber of Commerce and the Dutch Association of Banks are also positive. There are also positive legal advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch Association for Justice. They are all very happy with this law, but I would also like to say once again that the SP is very happy with this law. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about tackling acquisition fraud, the initiative law of Members Gesthuizen and Van Oosten. I will begin by complimenting these two members and their associates for the great work they have done. I myself had the pleasure of sitting there for once; it is of course very nice to be able to experience that. Furthermore, I naturally congratulate Mr Van Wijngaarden on his beautiful maiden speech. It's nice to start with a bill that everyone is actually excited about. Today we are talking about the core of acquisition fraud, namely the approach by advertising agencies of entrepreneurs for posting entries on websites and advertisements in magazines and magazines. That's pretty much the heart of the matter. Entrepreneurs often receive a ghost note later. The fraudsters act in such a way that an entrepreneur usually agrees to a new contract to be concluded unnoticed and against his will. Acquisition fraud is a social problem that has been dragging on for years and which affects entrepreneurs in particular. SMEs-Netherlands and the Acquisition Fraud Support Point have previously estimated the total damage of acquisition fraud to the economy at EUR 400 million per year. An additional problem is that acquisition fraud undermines the confidence of entrepreneurs and citizens in the economy. Acquisition fraud is currently not punishable as an independent crime. It has been said several times. Acquisition fraud does not give the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office any room for manoeuvre, and so often they tell entrepreneurs who want to report it, that it is a civil case and that criminal law is not working with it. It's hard to prove. This applies both in the case of a criminal case and in the case of a civil case. I have just heard a number of members, Van Nispen and Van Wijngaarden, say that Koppejan is also the father of this idea. Together with Mrs Gesthuizen, the mother of this idea, he is indeed at the root of this initiative proposal. I'd be happy to receive those credits for him. We have always been in favour of this law. We're really behind it, too. In the written input, we did ask critical questions about the restriction of the contractual freedom of the parties, the termination of contracts within seven days, the problem of proof, the effects of the criminal law approach in Austria and Belgium, but those questions have actually been answered satisfactorily. I thank the initiators for that. There are still a few points that might make the bill a little bit stronger. First of all, I would like to mention the possibility, which the CDA mentioned earlier, of a so-called blacklist. Whether it should be built by the government or by the business community itself, I leave it in the middle. Naming-and-shaming hurts, and it can prevent a lot of misery. Consumers need to be protected from acquisition fraudsters. A blacklist or a registration list provides insight into the most notorious fraudsters via the Internet. People don't have to come up when it happens once, but they do when it happens more often. It may be used as a preventive action. Entrepreneurs can quickly check invoices for which doubts exist against the list of malicious agencies published on the Internet. The initiators have already addressed this. They indicated that in current practice it is difficult to go to such a blacklist or registration list, because the fraudster involved in such a measure will often be legally opposed to it. That, of course, results in delays. However, if this law is passed, after acquisition fraud, there is no longer only tort in the field of civil law, but also an infringement of a criminal law standard. My question to the initiators is how they think that in the event that people are faced with substantiated complaints or convictions once, twice or three times, or with judgments in civil matters, the names of the agencies concerned are made public via the Internet. It's just an idea that needs to be worked out. Like I said, I don't know if the government should. Perhaps SMEs can pick it up themselves, whether or not in combination with the Fraud Help Desk. Citizens and entrepreneurs can already check, as has just been said, at the Fraudhelpdesk whether an invoice they have received comes from a party that has previously been notified. However, this can only be done at the Fraud Help Desk. Perhaps this can be combined with such a registration list. There is a need to look closely at privacy, as I understand it very well, but the factsheet Black lists of the College Protection Personal Data provides a clear picture of the conditions under which it can be done and also makes it clear when it cannot be done. So it might be worth investigating. I would like to hear from the initiators whether they see space and possibilities for this, and whether they want to investigate whether naming-and-shaming can be added to this. The most important aspect, as far as I am concerned, is the criminal consequences of committing acquisition fraud. In fact, we would like to see stricter penalties. Mr Van Nispen has explained it well. There is now the possibility of a fifth category fine. The maximum penalty is €81,000. When it comes to companies, you can go to the sixth category. That puts you at $810,000. That's a hefty amount, which isn't so easily imposed by the judge either. However, it is important that the victims often choose not one victim but several victims. Given the total, especially when it comes to people who are active and sometimes organized in this way, not in the form of a company, you should still be higher than that amount of €81,000. I say this also because the civil penalty power of the Consumer & Market Authority is at €450,000. This is therefore considerably higher than €81,000. I would therefore very much like the initiators to comment on my amendment in their time limit. If people commit this fraud, i.e. not registered companies, we do not want you to stick to the €81.000. I also ask the initiators if they have any idea what the relationship is like now. Is acquisition fraud committed by private individuals or is it always about companies or organisations? We'd like to get information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	We have just had a discussion on the amendment to item No. 10. Now I am asking a question about the amendment to item No. 9, which is indeed about the amount of the fine. As Mr Oskam has just explained, I understood him very well, but I do not think that is in his amendment, or I misunderstand it. I believe that we have the same objective, namely that for entrepreneurs, legal persons, who commit acquisition fraud, a fine of €810,000 should be possible. But that's already the case, isn't it? Can Mr Oskam explain what he means by his amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr Van Nispen is right: it is €810,000 if the crimes are committed by a company. In that case, you can switch to the next category of fine, category 6 instead of category 5. You'll be up to $810,000. However, if a private individual commits large-scale acquisition fraud and earns tons, he may be fined up to €81,000. We don't think that's right. We also believe that private individuals who commit such acts should be properly addressed. I hope that the investigation will soon show that people are not choosing one victim, but a lot of victims, that they are raging and earning thousands of euros. The CDA's line is you're gonna have to deal with these fraudsters. I agree with the initiators, but I find €81,000 on the tight side.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	I imagine you're trying to deal with fraudsters. That's what the SP fully shares with you. We also have the opportunity to take away illegally acquired assets, i.e. to pick the criminal, whether it be a private person or a legal person. I am also concerned that I have not found in the Code of Criminal Law any other fact for which there is a fine of the sixth category. That possibility is indeed contained in the Code and can be emigrated from it in the case of a legal person. I'd like to think along on higher fines, but I don't understand how this is legal. I think it would be a unique thing. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	I know that other crimes lead to lower fines, but I think you should look at developments in society. This is a major problem, which is why Mr van Oosten and Mrs Gesthuizen have taken it up. You have to be able to punish him accordingly. I just explained that, too. Private individuals are getting smarter and more convenient. It's really not about small amounts anymore. The fines must therefore be proportionate to the proceeds obtained by people with these types of offences. We therefore believe that higher fines should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	If a private person commits such a criminal offence, a fine is not even appropriate anymore. At some point in time, we will also be in prison. There's a reason there's two years in prison. With regard to legal persons, we have dealt fairly recently with a proposal which regulates that 10% of turnover can be requested if even the highest fine is not sufficient. In this case, too, let us ask the authors and the Minister for a response to the amendment, but I have my doubts. I am thinking more of prison than of a fine of over €81,000 for the private person doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman. I'm waiting for the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	If you had, I might not have had another question. Is it the CDA's intention to keep the big boys out of jail? By giving natural persons, i.e. the people of flesh and blood, a higher fine, the judge will be much less likely to give them a prison sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr Recourt knows, as I do, that judges can have the freedom to do so, and that sometimes it is better to take people into the wallet rather than to impose a prison sentence, especially in cases of this kind of crime. Two years in prison is not very much and the maximum penalty is hardly ever imposed. I do think that the D.A. and the court should have that space. That is why we want to create the possibility of a higher fine for those who have a financial gain. Of course, you can pick them and use other resources, but we think this is an important signal: you can be dealt with well if you do things like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	But the practice is often that a relationship is sought: partly a fine, partly a prison sentence or totally a fine and not a prison sentence. The more space you have in the penance sphere, the less prison time will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	I don't have a problem with that. That's ultimately up to the judge. I think we should give the D.A. and the judge tools. If someone cheats for three tonnes, you should also be able to impose a fine of three tonnes or maybe six tonnes, not 81,000 euros. It is much more sensible to give the public prosecutor and the judiciary the opportunity to impose high fines when people make financial use of other people. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group also advocates the inclusion of the acquisition provisions in Article 67 (1) (b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Let me explain this briefly. Where there are four years in prison or more, remand is allowed. Now there are many common and oppressive crimes that need to be dealt with by people. These are listed separately in Article 67 (1) (b). I have been thinking for a long time about whether these penalties should become, for example, four years or more instead of two years. However, I do not think that this is likely to be the case. Well, I'd like to give the police and the D.A. tools to pick up acquisition fraudsters. I have already explained to Mr Van Nispen that I am not saying that it cannot be a case if there is no statement from a suspect. If, following a declaration under the Gasthuizen/Van Oosten Act, the suspect changes his name or settles elsewhere and does not comply with the police's invitation to be heard in the context of the investigation, the police have no tools to put him on the telex or to take him away from home. Then the police will be left with a file without the defendant's statement. Now it doesn't have to stand in the way of a conviction, but most of the prosecutors, I've been there myself, expecting the police to do everything in their power to take that statement anyway. If that doesn't work out, the case can go to court, but it's gonna be tough. Often, this kind of case is delayed, resulting in the victim having to wait. Doesn't make anyone happy. That is why we believe that it should be placed under the burden of proof and that it should be allowed to be remanded. That does not mean that the police or the FIOD can take people off the streets too easily, because they must ask the prosecutor if they can arrest a person out of the blue. But then there's a magistrate looking at it. As far as I'm concerned, there's no danger at all, but it does give us the opportunity to do so. Another argument is that acquisitions often involve complex things. People won't make a statement right away and want to keep the powder dry. In a normal crime scene, the police have, for example, abuse, which is not subject to pre-trial detention, but six hours to proceed with such a suspect. After six hours, the suspect goes and the police still have nothing. These kinds of cases require that people be held longer, insured, further investigated and confronted with evidence or with witness statements. That is why the CDA is in favour of making this already very good law a little sharper. Otherwise, things like this will remain on the shelf. I know that from experience. I really do it with good intentions and not because I want to bring in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Wijnbergen on his maiden speech. I liked to hear that he's his sidekick...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	I have to interrupt you, but it's Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	Didn't I say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	I heard something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	Van Vineyards. I saw him nodding myself, so I think I said it right. I liked that he already thanked his group staff for the support. Let me take this opportunity to thank my group colleague too, because I have nothing to complain about. I would like to congratulate Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten on their initiative. I also know from my own experience that making an initiative proposal takes a lot of time and effort. I would like to congratulate them on that. I would then like to move on to the content, because that is what we are in favour of today, of course. This initiative proposal proposes a number of changes, making it easier to tackle acquisition fraud. According to the Fat Van Dale "acquisition" is recruiting and "fraud" has been committed by forgery of administration. "Acquisition fraud" can best be described as recruiting false information. This is also indicated by the initiators themselves in the explanatory memorandum with a large number of examples falling under that heading. Let me highlight two of them. A first example is the offer to place an ad or name tag in a business directory or on the Internet with the aim of making them sign a contract that creates a payment obligation. Another example is the unsolicited sending of accounts, the so-called ghost notes, without a legal basis. According to the initiators, they fall under the heading "acquisition fraud'. However, there are already legal instruments to deal with this. The initiators mention them as well. Although the criminal road is often difficult, partly because the police are often reluctant to report it, there are three actions that serve corrupted entrepreneurs in civil law: deception, misconduct and error. Consumers and entrepreneurs have their own responsibility. They must pay attention before signing anywhere or before confirming that certain information can be sent. The government also takes the view that acquisition fraud exists in the grace of trust and inattention. In principle, the PVV endorses this. However, our own responsibility must not go too far. That is what we are talking about now. Entrepreneurs must undertake and, of course, pay attention in this context, but there is no herb crop against almost professional counterparties who, for the purpose of cheating, are particularly close to small entrepreneurs with incorrect, defective or incomplete information with the aim of concluding an agreement to which a payment obligation is linked, which is often prolonged. In this context, for example, logos resembling logos from reliable companies are frequently contacted at busy times, information is sent unsolicited and often the impression is given by telephone that there is already an agreement that can be dissolved only for payment. Such practices need to be protected from hard-working entrepreneurs. From my own experience as a lawyer, I can confirm that I often had to disappoint clients. Just show that there is an acquisition fraud, fraud, error or tort, and that it was not the client himself's fault that he was fooled into that nice talk. Even if it could be proved, a procedure was often not decided, because a procedure has risks, takes a long time and costs money. If that was disproportionate to the claim the opposing party claimed to have, it was often not recommended to initiate a procedure, with all the disappointment it had to do. The need for better protection has also been demonstrated, because the economic damage is very great. At least, that's what the estimates show. As has already been mentioned, Support Point Acquisition fraud and SME-Netherlands estimates the damage to businesses at around EUR 400 million per year. This has adverse effects on the business environment. Trust in the market is harmed by the fact that many entrepreneurs, after being swindled, feel more distrust of companies that approach them. Like the initiators, the PVV Group believes that this is unacceptable. The need to better tackle acquisition fraud is also reflected in the fact that in 2011 only 255 people reported, while in the same year no less than 11,000 notifications came to the Support Point Acquisition fraud. That number had risen the following year, already in 2012, to 27,000 reports. This large difference between declarations and notifications at the support point shows that there is clearly a problem with the approach. The initiators have also provided for the possibility for the courts to provide that such misleading communications may no longer be addressed to other economic operators. The court may also provide that a rectification of the notification in question shall be made public. My group agrees with that too. In fact, this is just profit. In this way, the same misleading communication will immediately prevent further entrepreneurs from being penalised. For the sake of completeness, I would like to comment on the part that there will also be a new article in the Code of Criminal Law. According to the initiators, this will make the police more willing to record the declaration and make the declaration easier as it can now simply refer to the article of the law. Then there is no need to give a description of the crime, then to look under which current article of the law it is subsequently arrested. This too is a welcome addition. Although criminal law is the ultimate remedium, it is so nice for corrupted entrepreneurs that the police and the Public Prosecutor continue the course of justice. There is, of course, also a signal from criminal law. In that context, I do have a question, but I ask it to the government. It has indicated that if the seriousness of the fraud requires it, a criminal law approach is needed. However, this reaction dates from two years ago; the PVV would therefore like to ask the Minister how the government is looking at this problem and thus this initiative. So I would like to get a response on this point. I'm rounding up. The measures proposed by the initiative proposal are a strong need in practice. This has also been asked from practice. The PVV Group is convinced that with this initiative we are better able to stop acquisition fraud. My group can therefore support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr President, I should like to end by warmly congratulating Mr Van Wijnbergen on his impressive maiden speech. I also congratulate the authors. This is the highlight that a Dutch MP can achieve in his work. This applies in derived form, perhaps later they are MPs, to the employees. Then I'll get to the contents. On the civilian side, I have no supplementary questions. As far as I am concerned, the written procedure has been sufficiently exhaustive. I'm gonna focus on the criminal side. As a starting point, I'm very critical of criminality. Penalty claims to be a solution to social problems. As I say in general terms, much is expected from criminal law, but it is ultimately driven by disappointment. The criminal justice system is always a trap. There are a lot of facts. Less facts are reported, less of them being forwarded by the police to the Public Prosecutor's Office and less of them to the judge. So it's always just the tip of that huge funnel, the tip of the iceberg. Only a small part of the future acquisition fraud will therefore be brought to justice. In doing so, you are building disappointment into that very important instrument of criminal law. Despite this critical stance, we do support this criminalisation. It provides for a loophole in the law. Or rather, it is a moving insight. Originally, when drafting the Code of Criminal Law, it will be deliberately chosen to limit crimes as scams and not to criminalise sending ghost invoices, for example. At that time, a small-scale economy was assumed, based on personal relationships. In such an economy, that makes much more sense. Suppose I live around 1850 and the baker tells me I owe him another 100 guilders. Well, I guess I know what to pay for the bakery. If I accidentally pay him and he doesn't pay me back, then I can go to the civil court for improper payment. Otherwise, me and my friends would just never buy bread from him again. That baker would have finished soon. Of course, this does not apply to a society like today, in which financial traffic is highly automated, anonymized and incredibly grown. That's different in there. In that, the large-scale sending of ghost invoices is a lucrative business. Design is then aimed at obtaining payment without consideration. This is not only a matter of civil law, but also of the behaviour that we have traditionally referred to as scam. That's very close to it. The core is always that there must be an intent on illegality. I'll have a few more questions about that later. It is therefore a good thing to make acts that we all feel are criminal in this case too. This was already the case for individuals. This is without prejudice to the fact that companies must, of course, keep an eye on who they pay. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in this multitude of cases, this form of fraud will not always take precedence in the investigation and prosecution. So be it. On the other hand, the worst cases can be dealt with, a safe haven of crooks is being closed and the signal is being sent that you must keep your hands off the money of honest people. I'm getting a little more concrete now. The judge will face cases that are not obvious. He will then wonder what exactly the authors of this law meant. Then it will help if we have sought the limits of what is just now a criminal offence and what is not yet a criminal offence. I'll start with the term "design." It will have to be people who knowingly bottle the bottles. Literally, the bill says, "for the purpose of wrongly favouring oneself or another." What about conditional intent? Can the structural administration of a very poor administration be such that one consciously takes the significant opportunity to send false or double invoices? Is that what's underneath? As a private person, I had it going on. I wrote endlessly with someone who thought I owed him money, and over and over and over again I got a wrong invoice on the bus. I can imagine that this does not fall within the scope of the law, but in the context of the search for borders, I would like to hear a response from the proposers on this point. As another example, I would like to mention a company that continues to hold on to an explanation of a contract that is advantageous to that company and continues to send too high invoices on that basis, while it has been shown that this company knew or should have known that that explanation of the agreement was not correct. Is that a crime? One more question about which behaviours are and which are not punishable. The proposers have deliberately chosen a broad definition because they cannot look into the future. This can, however, bite with legal certainty. After all, we in the Netherlands need to know what is criminal and what is not. No vague standards should be included in the Code of Criminal Law. Is the criminalisation in question sufficiently concrete? There is now talk of committing deceptive acts in order to persuade another person acting in the pursuit of a profession, business or organization to make a payment. The core is in the word "deceptive." What's that got to do with it? We know that this includes ghost invoices. Another example, mentioned earlier this evening, is misleading when signing a contract, for example for listing in a telephone directory. Deception has been mentioned quite quickly. At least that's what the injured party thinks soon. There have been many civil proceedings in which one party claims to have been misled by the other party and therefore wants to get rid of the agreement. My question to the authors is whether examples can be used to make more explicit what is misleading and what is not. Where are the boundaries? Are there more examples of what is certainly criminal and what is certainly not criminal? That could help the law. Next question. The applicants indicate that payment of costs arising from ghost invoices often takes place in order to avoid the appearance that the entrepreneur would face liquidity problems. How can entrepreneurs be supported to take the step towards declaration anyway? Is there a particular category of entrepreneurs who, out of fear, do not want to initiate proceedings? How can the role of enterprise squares be further strengthened in this respect? The Fraud Help Desk has proven its existence. Optimal cooperation with business squares is of great importance in order to be effective in relation to those who wish to enter the market with a dubious business plan. What role can the Fraud Help Desk play in providing additional support for vulnerable entrepreneurs? We hope that the Public Prosecutor's Office will give greater priority to cases involving large-scale acquisition fraud, in order to maximise the effectiveness of the law. By the way, we realise that capacity can only be used once. However, the cabinet has identified the fight against fraud as a priority, so this fits in wonderfully. Prevention can never be so excellent as to reach everyone, the proposers argue. We support this view. However, it is important to focus attention and resources on the vulnerable small entrepreneur who is in financial straits. The initiators also point this out. It may also be possible for inter-branch organisations, who are well acquainted with entrepreneurs, to play an extra active role in this. Can the initiators respond to this? Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	And that brings us to the end of the first term of office. The authors, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr van Oosten, and the Minister will reply at another time. I thank the Minister for Security and Justice for coming to our Chamber.
