ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. There is massive opposition to a new decision by the cabinet. Just when the housing market is finally starting to scramble very carefully, the cabinet comes up with new measures at the very last minute to further strengthen mortgage standards. House buyers will be able to borrow less next year. As a result, the construction industry is screwed, the starters come to a house even more difficult and the cabinet does not keep its own promise. The CDA is therefore opposed to this proposal, not because it wants to encourage people to go into debt, but because we are threatening to shoot through and because the peace promised by this minister is not going to happen. The well-known pendulum clearly starts to move on to the other side: from too many debts we make by squeezing to too much. I repeat: advice from the Nibud, the National Institute for Budget Information. As a result, house buyers can borrow 5% to 8% less. The Minister takes these unilateral opinions without any consultation with the Chamber and looking away from all the other opinions. The CDA wants to look wider than just the Nibud's advice. We are also looking at the criticisms of the construction sector, the trade associations, the brokers. They say clearly: the early restoration of the housing market will be smothered in the bud. We support this view. We see that call and we are, like them, afraid that this is the wrong measure at the wrong time. The housing market benefits mainly from peace and predictability. This does not fit in with these unexpected, choked-up measures. That is why I am asking the Minister the following questions. Does he share the analysis that this will make the housing market more difficult again? Is it true that the Minister has taken the Nibud's advice without a hitch? What does the Minister do with the criticism of the NVM, Building the Netherlands and you name it? Finally, is the Minister prepared to review the regime in which the borrowing capacity is further reduced and first to table with all parties, including the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The mortgage financing scheme that I sent to the Chamber last month was based on the decision of ministers Spies and De Jager at the end of 2012 to base the mortgage space in the future on the opinions of the Nibud. In line with that decision of my predecessors, my colleague Minister Dijsselbloem and I sent the mortgage standards both at the end of last year and this year on the basis of the advice of the Nibud. Both last year and this year, these new mortgage standards include both broadening and tightening. Partly because the Chamber asked me to discuss this with the Nibud, this year there is a big increase when the mortgage is used for a very energy-efficient home. This is an increase of €25,000. In addition, as it always does, the Nibud has calculated the spending space on the basis of the development of wages, premiums, taxes and prices as well as a security buffer for lower incomes. On balance, this leads to a tightening up. Will this lead to damage to the housing market, as Mr De Rouwe says? I am convinced that this is not the case. I believe that Minister Spies and Minister De Jager rightly noted in 2012 that a lesson from the financial crisis was that there had to be clarity about loan standards, that they had to be safe and determined by an independent institution. Also from last year I remember discussion in society about the impact of loan standards. Fortunately, we have seen that the housing market has recovered considerably over the past year. I am also positive about the further development of the housing market. Fortunately, with me, a lot of analysts are this. Mr De Rouwe pointed out the criticism of, for example, Bouwend Nederland. I understand that from their point of view. Of course, they have an interest, or at least they think they have an interest, in broad loan standards, but there is certainly not just criticism of them. As far as the involvement of the Chamber is concerned, the Chamber took note of the letter a month ago. It's always up to the Chamber to order letters from a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	Then let us do business right away, because I have that letter in front of me. There's been a lot of criticism. Building the Netherlands was mentioned, but also the Dutch Association of Real Estate Agents, SMBs Netherlands, VNO and so I can continue for a while, but then my speech text is up. Can we agree with the Minister that the regulation provided for does not enter into force until the Chamber has discussed it? Furthermore, I find it quite striking that the Minister repeats it in such a way that some of his predecessors have argued in favour of it. Since then, many measures have rightly been taken to prevent too much credit and too much debt. Our position is that, with these new stricter standards, we are now going to have a real break from January. That is the crucial point for the CDA Group. That is also the criticism of all those organisations that say not only for their own good, but also for a general interest: cabinet, stop attracting the corset further; give the sector, give the house seekers, give the young people the space to buy a house and also get a loan. With these standards, the cabinet continues on a path that is moving forward. We share that something had to be done about it. We can see that. The CDA Group has also supported this, but we are now on the verge of this Minister taking one piece of advice without hesitation. It is an important opinion, and I do not want to take anything away from it, but it is not the only advice. That is why I am asking this question again. Does the Minister also have ears for all those other parties that have been mentioned? Is he prepared to keep the arrangement until the Chamber has discussed it? Finally, the banks that will soon be getting over the new standards are already introducing them very precisely. Does the Minister agree with us that these banks should be encouraged to provide tailor-made services? Once again, we are constantly getting reports that banks are not doing so. They will be further encouraged if this bad policy continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	It's about consulting with the Chamber. The letter was sent a month ago. I am at the disposal of the Chamber to discuss this at any time. The scheme will enter into force on 1 January of this year. But again, if the Chamber wants a meeting, I'm available for that. I do not go into Mr De Rouwe's suggestion that the regulation should not be introduced in advance. In a year in which the housing market has not yet been restored, my ministers have, on good grounds, adopted a regulation and submitted it to the Chamber. The Chamber agreed at that time. Then I apply it neatly in that line. Wouldn't it be weird if we stopped doing that now? Wouldn't it be irresponsible to throw out the lesson of the financial crisis? I'm always willing to discuss it. I do this constantly with relevant organisations, indeed with business organisations but also with consumer organisations, the AFM and the Nibud. On the basis of the discussions I am having, I would like to say once again that I welcome the developments in the housing market, but I think it is right that we should apply this scheme, as we have done in previous years. Then there is the question of the banks' customization. The scheme offers the room for tailor-made work, because it is also very clearly stated that the additional buffer for unexpected expenditure should not be applied in the case of, for example, a single-person household or a household without children. Fortunately, that space for customization is also included in the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister says he is positive about developments in the housing market, but that is obviously not right. House owners are still flooded with their mortgage. The PVV also wonders why the Minister is only making the problems worse. He is now ensuring that even fewer people can finance a house and that even fewer people than they already are can sell their house at a reasonable price. This isn't the way you're pulling the market, I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Fritsma is right when he finds that the housing market is not equally attractive everywhere in the Netherlands. In the Randstad, especially in Amsterdam, prices are already rising very fast. In Amsterdam they are even cooking over. However, I am well aware that there are regions in the Netherlands where the housing market is not yet full steam. These regional differences, I think, will remain. At the same time, we note that the fall in interest rates, the drop in house prices and the mortgage standards we have, have not been as good as they have been since the early 1990s. It is therefore not the case that, as Mr Fritsma suggests, residential properties have become inaccessible. No, thankfully it is so much and fortunately we have also seen this in the sales figures over the past few months that people are able to find the step to the housing market. In a responsible way, we must leave that room. It would be very strange to have an arrangement that in good consultation...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	...with the Chamber being introduced two years ago, now suddenly turning back.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	I'm gonna hook up on the last point. This has been done at a time when we were deeply concerned about overdrafting, so that people would have too much debt. Do I understand the Minister right now that if we changed this arrangement, we would change an arrangement introduced by two CDA directors two years ago, precisely in order to protect citizens from overdrafting?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr Monasch rightly pointed out that the arrangement had been introduced by Ministers Spies and De Jager. It is, by the way, an arrangement that I support. That is indeed the time when it was announced that the mortgage standards would henceforth be set nationally on the basis of the Nibud advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. I think you're gonna be back tonight for legal treatment. I now give the floor to Mr Schouw van D66.
