ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their first-term questions. Before I answer on behalf of the cabinet, I would like to briefly indicate in which blocks I would like to answer the questions for the structure of the debate. I shall begin with a brief introduction on the need and added value of this ftk. Then I will answer the questions as follows. The first concerns the change in the UFR and questions about the calculation rate. The second block concerns the link with the dialogue on the future of the pension system. The third block concerns questions about the process of drafting the legislative proposal and about the lower regulation. Then there are questions about the impact of the bill on the policy freedom of pension funds. Finally, there are a number of other questions that your Members have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u3	That sounds fantastic organized. Do you have any idea how much time that's going to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u4	I know the more I try to answer staccato, the more appreciated it is at this hour of the day. I am therefore doing my utmost to be very brief and concise in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u6	The financial crisis, the low interest rates and the increase in life expectancy have brought many pension funds into severe weather. As a result, people's pensions are often not indexed and in some cases even reduced in recent years. Your members' questions, as well as the reactions of citizens and civil society organisations, raise concerns about the development of pensions and the sustainability of the system. This means that the self-evident solidarity to help each other through old age has become less self-evident. Against this background, in 2009 the cabinet-Balkenende IV asked the Goldwaard Commission and the Frijns Committee to advise on the future of the system. This led to a number of clear bottlenecks in the system, which have been the subject of extensive debate and debate in recent years. The final impact of this is ahead of us today: the new financial review framework. The new financial rules for pension funds aim to keep the pension system strong, healthy and fair. The adapted rules should ensure that there is no abrupt and substantial reductions in bad times, as in recent years. Financial failures may be spread over several years. It protects the purchasing power of the elderly in bad times. In addition, indexing can only be done if it is not at the expense of future indexations. That's fair enough. So it's not just about now, it's about later. In this context, questions have been asked about the large assets of pension funds. You must realise the following. At present, the average coverage rate of pension funds is around 105%. This means that there is no reserve from which to index. In real terms, the coverage rate is currently about 80%. That amounts to a deficit of some EUR 200 billion. It is important that we realise this. That is why I am so pleased that Mr Klaver van GroenLinks in the Lower House has asked me to ask pension funds to also report the real coverage rate and not just the nominal coverage rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u7	You're talking about a deficit of 200 billion. We have indicated from several quarters in the first period that the figures we have heard from experts and from the funds themselves are quite different from those from the technical briefing and that those figures from the technical briefing were rather behind in the latest state of affairs. For the sake of clarity, can you tell us exactly what amounts we are talking about? What amounts do you think are currently in the total pension fund and what are the nominal liabilities at the moment? What's the status?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u8	Yes, I can. There's 1,100 billion in the second pillar pension fund. If you add the third pillar of pensions and insurers, you'll get to about 1,361 billion. I am talking about 1,100 billion, because the financial review framework applies to the second pillar. Real coverage shows that at present there is simply not enough money to adapt pensions to inflation. On balance, the new rules ensure a more stable, balanced and fair development of pensions for the young people of the past, one might say, and the elderly of the future. In the new ftk, benefits and risks within the system are evenly distributed among all participants and there will be a more stable premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u9	There wouldn't be enough money to index. Imagine: in the coming year, we will increase pensions by 1.5% with inflation. So what is the total amount that goes out of the pension pots and what is the amount with which the pension fund grows annually? Can you tell me that in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u10	I just explained that. If you really have all the liabilities that pension funds are under their control, then that is the liabilities to pensioners, but also to those who are now investing in the pension fund in such a way that you also want to live up to your future liabilities, with a coverage rate of 105% that the pension funds are now nominally on and the real coverage rate of 80%, you really can't index now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u11	We always go around in circles, with the arithmetic interest and that kind of familiar arguments. The fact is that if you allow 1.5% indexation, which means up to 500 million out of the total pension fund and that pension fund grows many times more annually. The pension funds themselves say it can be done easily. And the trade union movement, which you used to be so connected with, says: with your way of doing things, you put the axe at the root of this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u12	I think it is very important that anyone who is interested in a fund, whether it be the pensioner or the person who is paying contributions now, knows that he can receive his pension at the end of the journey. Mr Nagel understands that I am not in favour of indexing now for those who are now receiving pensions, knowing that you cannot do so in the future. So I don't think that's a good idea. I would now like to highlight the large number of improvements that are going to solve the bottlenecks. The good thing is that some of the Members of Parliament actually recognize those improvements, including those that are not immediately enthusiastic about this proposal, if I may say so. It is pleasant that this has been underlined. Improvements include: clarifying the way risks are addressed, applying a better distribution methodology for financial shocks, introducing clear and fair sharing rules on indexation, a stable, cost-covering premium and robust steering elements. You can characterize the new ftk as a kind of increased dike monitoring against the storms of the economic crisis and demographic developments. In particular, however, it is also a short and medium-term dike monitoring exercise. I'm very interested in that. The cabinet has launched a wide-ranging discussion on the future of the 21st century in order to recognise the old age provision. The starting point is that we are working on a pension system in which everyone feels at home and in which everyone has confidence. In this way, we can well support mutual solidarity around old age. However, in order to be able to conduct this discussion properly, maintenance is first and foremost necessary, which is necessary twice, but well, it is also necessary. This maintenance proposal is before the Chamber today. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to move on to the second block. This includes the UFR (Ultimate Forward Rates). I would also like to say a few words about the calculation rate. In fact, all members of the Chamber have taken up the UFR. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u13	The Secretary of State is moving on to the second block. The first block would be about the need for adjustment. Some things have been said about that. However, questions have also been asked, at least for my part, about the need and urgency for it to be introduced by 1 January. That question has not yet been answered. Is that gonna come apart? Isn't that part of the need block?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u14	My first block was kind of an introduction. I shall now come to the process of drafting this bill in the fourth block. Then I'll move on to the UFR. Let me say first of all that it is primarily the responsibility of the Dutch Bank to determine the calculation rate, including the UFR, for pension funds. During the introduction of the UFR for pension funds, in 2012, there was criticism from the Chamber and from scientists about the UFR. That is why a UFR Commission was set up at the time, which gave its opinion. When the Commission delivered its opinion, there was still uncertainty as to what the UFR in Solvency II, i.e. in Europe, looked like. That was not clear at the Second Chamber either. The House of Representatives then tabled a motion to investigate whether the possible European UFR would be worth implementing in the Netherlands. But the House of Representatives did say: enter the new UFR as of 1 January. Following the EIOPA consultation on Solvency II for insurers, it becomes clear in February 2015 how the risk-free calculation rate with UFR for insurers will be finalized. In the light of this process and the objections that have been raised here against the UFR for pension funds, I am prepared to listen carefully to the members of your Chamber to ask the Netherlands Bank to wait until the adoption of the opinion of the UFR Commission and to consider the concerns expressed by the spokesmen, as well as the final form of the UFR for insurers. I understand that your Chamber says it is complicated to work with three UFRs in such a short time. By the way, that is also a cost. I also attended the Dutch Bank, because of course it is listening to this debate. I understand that the Netherlands Bank will make this request, our request, heavy if it is introduced on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u15	I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment. Did I understand her correctly that this means that there will be two UFRs that have to do with pension funds: current and European? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u16	Can I answer that right now? It was of course intended that the new UFR would be introduced by the Dutch Bank on 1 January. That's still the point. It is up to the Dutch Bank, I really have to say that very clearly. I can, having heard your Chamber, go to the Dutch Bank and ask what your Chamber has brought forward. Now that we know that the European UFR is going to be very clear, it is up to the Dutch Bank to see if it would like to push on with the old UFR until it knows more about this European UFR.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u17	I want us to really understand each other. The Secretary of State therefore commits the Chamber that it will do so, but apparently it has already made a first contact on the inside line. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u18	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u19	That is a commitment that we can make a long way. I have a second question in this connection. In the first part of my speech, I also spoke about IFRS and the difference in the UFR applicable to pension funds and the UFR applicable to insurers. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how the UFR of pension funds should relate to the UFR of insurers. I think, like IFRS, that pension funds should actually be lower. I think most of the members of this house think the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u20	I cannot stress it enough to the Dutch Bank to finally see how it wants to deal with an UFR, both for insurers and for the funds. I have always said in the Lower House that I think it is important that if you are going to work with a European UFR drawn up for insurers, you should look very closely at all other matters that are appropriate for insurers and not for funds. So, again, that's really up to the Dutch Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u21	Finally, Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u22	I know DNB determines this, but does the Secretary of State also say that the cabinet has no opinion on the UFR?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u23	I think it is not wrong that we have asked an independent committee to examine the UFR. I also know that at least the Lower House, and I think the Upper Chamber, has looked very closely at this objectivity. So it's up to the Dutch Bank to color that interest rate well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u24	I would like to highlight the State Secretary's commitment to actually ask the Dutch Bank to maintain the UFR until the promised investigation is completed. I also think it would be commendable for the government to be in this competition, given the judgment of this Chamber. For that, we thank the government. Secondly, I cannot allow it to be said that it is special that the Christian Democrats, of course, are calling for European legislation in this area, where the Secretary of State himself has taken the initiative to oppose it. It's nice that we managed to find each other in that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u25	I was curious to see what Mr Postema's question to the Secretary of State was. I haven't been able to tell. I think it is a very different matter. It is about what is important for pension funds. The point is that we ensure that these funds are not faced with three times, but only twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u26	I also brought up the subject, so we'd better discuss it right away. In questioning the desirability of introducing the UFR now, I did not say that I had an opinion on the correct level of the UFR. I do not think we should want to answer that question. The Secretary of State already says that it is formally located at the Dutch Bank. The committee that advised on the UFR had at that time a very limited task. I'm curious about the trial the Secretary of State has in mind. If, in the end, an UFR for insurers is established in EIOPA and Europe, there are two further steps. The first is: is it also applicable to pension funds? The second is: who is going to judge it? Eventually, the Dutch Bank does so, but is there also a committee among them that could advise on this and that might perhaps be a little wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u27	I have already answered Mr Backer's first question when I answered Mr Hoekstra's question. Indeed, the Dutch Bank is looking very closely at whether it is right to grab the European UFR for insurers. That's essential. The second question was addressed in detail by Mr Backer in his first term. It says: how is the research into the European UFR being designed? That is also the case with the Dutch Bank. He will closely follow the debate in this Chamber and will look at what the Chamber thinks, for example, about the expertise you need to be able to do that research properly. I listened very carefully to Mr Backer in his first term. He argued in favour of international expertise as well. Once again, the Netherlands Bank is leading the way, but thanks to this debate, the Dutch Bank can do its part.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u28	On this point, I understand that neither we nor the government determines the level of the UFR. It's in the Netherlands Bank. I also understand that the Dutch Government is reluctant to say anything to the Dutch Bank about how high it should be or to express an opinion on the level. In this context, I have asked for the following. If we know how high the UFR is for insurers such as those established in Europe, how should the UFR for pension funds relate to this, also in the light of the questions raised by the CDA Group? And how does the government appreciate my statement that insurers are at greater risk than pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u29	I think it is a good thing to await the implementation of the motion that I have embraced in the House of Representatives. It asks me whether I would like to examine exactly how this is going with the UFR in Europe and whether I would ask the Netherlands Bank to look closely at the added value of such a UFR, including for pension funds. It is good to wait, because this is hidden in the womb of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u30	What exactly is the procedure? In the end, the Nederlandsche Bank determines this. He'll be advised by a committee. We have asked for the committee that delivers that opinion to be set up internationally, independently. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u31	In my reply, I intended to say the following. The Nederlandsche Bank is a move, both when it comes to the question of which UFR it is to use and how the UFR is to be determined. So that's where the lead lies. I listen carefully to all the spokesmen, but all I can do is ask the Dutch Bank to continue the current UFR. Again, if the Dutch Bank doesn't want it, it won't happen, but I can ask. Because I knew this question would come first, I contacted the Dutch Bank. It has informed me that this request will be weighed heavily since it will be introduced on 1 January. Mr Beckers' second question was how the UFR would then be determined. That is also the case with the Dutch Bank. He will examine the expertise with which she does this. It will then take a very close look at the debate here and make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u32	I do not yet have a clear answer to the question whether the Secretary of State, having heard the wishes of this Chamber, recommends that the Netherlands Bank should be advised by an independent, international committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u33	If I may translate this debate in such a way that I may make myself a postiljon d'amour between the First Chamber and the Netherlands Bank, I would like to leave the following message there. The First Chamber would like to see it, I think, carried very widely that this request is treated with a warm heart. And I wouldn't want to be a postilion d'amour if I didn't see it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u34	I understand the Dutch Bank is listening. I almost tend to welcome them to this debate. It is also a good thing that the Secretary of State moves so early in this debate and comes right to this point. That seems very important to me. Can she say anything about the question of time? We have shared several times that there is a very good chance that the UFR regime will be able to change very quickly over the next year and a half if we do nothing. That also means there's time pressure on the whole story. Did she share this with the Dutch Bank? Is the Dutch Bank aware that it must act quickly, assuming that the ftk passes here tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u35	Sure. The Dutch Bank says the following, and I understand that from the Dutch Bank, because it is a sine qua non condition. The Dutch Bank says: we want to look favourably at the continuation of the old UFR for a while if we can work with the new ftk; if the latter is not possible, we must introduce the new UFR.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u36	My question concerns the situation in this regard. Is there an urgent view that there is a time squeeze on that, so that it cannot be taken six months or a year for that investigation, given that we do not want the changing regime of the UFRs?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u37	If the European UFR is clarified in February, De Nederlandsche Bank will undoubtedly act tremendously on it. Once again, the lead is at De Nederlandsche Bank; I cannot stress this often enough. Mr Elzinga asked whether it was true that the risk-free interest rate for pension funds was prescribed so that pension liabilities could be transferred to an insurer. That is certainly not the main reason why pension funds should use risk-free interest for the valuation of their liabilities, but it is a good side effect. In fact, insurers also work with market valuation and thus risk-free interest rates. This allows insurers to take over pension fund liabilities without first reducing pensions. This situation is not a theory, but regular practice, as Mr Elzinga will know, because many smaller pension funds, in particular, have been bringing their pension schemes down to insurers in recent years. It is very important that members should not be faced with reductions in their pensions, just because the implementing pension scheme changes. I think this is good. I come to the third block, which concerns the future and the dialogue. I have already said a few things about it in my introduction. Mr Beckers asked whether the government agreed that an innovative approach to improved premium agreements should be adopted quickly. We have said that we will come to the House of Representatives with a letter on the so-called CDC construction. So do we. As soon as it has passed the First Chamber, I will send that letter to the Second Chamber and the First Chamber will, of course, have access to it. That seems clear to me. The CDC construction is of course made for the large groups such as Unilever and Shell. I know they're waiting for that. Mr Ester asked about the dialogue. In May 2015, the cabinet will present a headline paper in which different policy variants will be developed, with all the advantages and disadvantages. Those policy variants are not final choices, but the necessary building blocks for the political debate. The main paper will also include possible alternatives to the average premium. As you know, I have also asked for advice from the ESC; I will also include this opinion. Mr Elzinga asked whether, in view of the fact that on 1 January 2015, there was a "threat" to the budget deficit. For my part, there has been no threat. Some members of the First Chamber informally asked the department, so to me, what consequences it would have if it were not introduced next year. That's just public information. On an informal basis, there was an exchange of views that this could lead, for example, to an increase in contributions for ABP. Moreover, that conclusion could have been drawn by anyone on the basis of the coverage rate of the ABP and the letter I sent to the First Chamber on the condition that DNB did not apply the contribution to recovery requirement, namely the introduction of the ftk as of 1 January 2015. So there has been no threat of a budgetary setback.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u38	I don't know if I said there was a threat. I had noticed that a number of spokesmen, perhaps at their own request, had received information about the level of the disappointment and the consequences for the treasury. In the pieces I've seen, there's talk of a heavy noose, a heavy treasury setback. Why is such an argument not shared Chamberwide? I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u39	To the question of why it is so important that it should take place on 1 January, we have often replied, including in the press, that this is not only essential for the ABP, but that it is also very important for other reasons. That's nothing new. If I am questioned by Members of the Chamber, I think I should answer that. I know that Mr Elzinga has also been in contact with the department. I hope that's where he got the answers he needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u40	Mr Elzinga, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u41	I didn't get this information from the Secretary of State or the Ministry. I got it from a colleague. The Secretary of State says that it is also important for other reasons and that it has also expressed this in the media. The argument of the budget deficit has never been exchanged in public. I understand that, because after all, the Secretary of State is not about determining contributions; that is what the pension fund does. Nor is it about the application of the DNB's policy directive, which concerns DNB. So it is an argument that is annoying, but that should be outside the discussion. This is something that we have no influence on. So it is not something that we should look at as an argument for dealing with the problem before 1 January. Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u42	Yes, as far as I am concerned, in the sense that there were other reasons for wanting to meet the deadline of 1 January. We already have a number of transitional years, which means that De Nederlandsche Bank has to go back to the old system, with all its complexity. Day-to-day rates influence the level of coverage. I'm sure we don't want that. There are therefore many other reasons for introducing the ftk as of 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u43	Mr. Elzinga, you've really got to be kidding me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u44	It's true. It's true. Okay, just one more quick one. The Secretary of State is now saying that there are other reasons. I would like to know whether the rapporteur's argument for the Secretary of State has been an important reason for communicating with spokesmen that the ftk should continue on 1 January. At first she said that there were other reasons and that she mentioned them in the press. Now she says there were other reasons. Has the rapporteur's argument also been a reason for the Secretary of State to convince the people that the FTC should now be adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u45	It's just public information that can be distracted. In that respect, there is not much news under the sun. It is pleasant that even at this time the First Chamber still wants to deal with the law, because then we do not have to face all these complexities. Saves a sip on a drink. I come to the fourth block, which deals with the process and the lower rules. I have been asked whether there has been insufficient consultation with pension funds and elderly organisations. It is understood that I do not find this a pleasant question. This legislative proposal has a very long history, which is briefly reflected in the explanatory memorandum. In recent years, and also by my predecessors, there has been a great deal of consultation with all parties, including the elderly organisations and the funds. There has also been an internet consultation. Everyone has been able to respond to that. After the consultation phase, an intermediate variant was chosen in the summer of 2013. Then I had all the parties, including the elderly organisations, at the table. There has also been discussion at official level with social partners, practitioners and elderly organisations about the outlines of the current proposal and, fortunately, we are still encountering many older people and representatives of pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u46	We also believe that there is talk of this side-by-side. We are covered by letters from the trade union movement, elderly organizations, etc., which state that they have often met the Secretary of State, that they have been heard and that the Secretary of State has listened, but that no real consultation has taken place. This is experienced by all organizations and the trade union movement. The Secretary of State doesn't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u47	That's a little far-fetched, isn't it? Because of the internet consultation, for example, I have put the ear very well to listen to. There was a concept, but because of the internet consultation we chose this intermediate variant. I'm far from saying that we wouldn't have had any contact with anyone who matters in the retirement world and the elderly world. However, it is more common in a legislative proposal that you cannot please everyone. I have also had to say that all these different partners were not always on the same page and then I express myself euphemistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u48	There's an entire club of interrupters waiting. Mr Elzinga, you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u49	Thank you. Perhaps not all of the partners agree on all of the points, but in a meeting of experts from all angles we noticed how united they were about the lack of indexing possibilities for this new financial review framework in the short and long term. I do not understand why the Secretary of State can say that she has listened carefully to everyone when the result is such a huge gap between the pension field, the grassroots and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u50	As far as indexing is concerned, it is important to have a proper exchange of views. Over the last few months, I have often been told that this bill has not been indexed for years. That's not possible at all, because the bill hasn't even passed this Chamber yet. That's not gonna work. I began my reply by saying that I consider a good balance between all generations to be of great importance. If you don't want to cut very abruptly, you have to contrast that you're going to index a little less quickly. That is good for the balance sheet as a whole. I can imagine that some partners would prefer to index quickly, but this is a little less rapid. That does not mean, however, that never can ever be indexed again, really not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u51	Finally, Mr Elzinga, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u52	We are going to talk about indexing and content in detail, and I think that is very important, but I was talking about the basis of support. All domes, all plants of employees, employers and a whole row of pension funds are critical. All elderly organisations and umbrella organisations of pensioners are also critical. That doesn't leave much left.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u53	I am not just here for the older generation, but for all generations, because it applies to all of us. Many young people are not immediately working on their pensions, but those who are looking into them think this is an improvement. They see that the balance between old and young takes shape well. We may not be able to see these young people come across so often, but I think it is important to take account of their future as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u54	I'd like to come back to the subject of communication. We know the Secretary of State as someone who does not miss a chance to get in touch with those involved and have a conversation. Perhaps the concept of "consultation" has not been properly understood by its interlocutors, but we note with Mr Elzinga that a large group of people concerned feel that they have not been able to influence the Secretary of State and that they have not been in an equal conversation with her. There is a world to win if that feeling is somehow taken away. Would the Secretary of State be prepared to think about a way to close the gap that is about to arise, and which already exists here and there, in a sensible way, which will make it easier to settle the bumps that will undoubtedly arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u55	Mr Beckers asks me this in a beautiful way, because that is, of course, essential. I know all the "prehumans" of all the groups by name. I have, of course, consulted with them, but I have not been able to satisfy them 100%. I cannot make it any better on that point, because I find the generational balance so incredibly essential. In the coming months, in the context of the national pension dialogue, I intend to invite everyone back and also to go everywhere so that they can tell us how to set up our system in the 21st century. That is very important, because we see that the labour market is changing. This is in order to support the current system well and securely, but, of course, from the present system, we must have the courage to think about how we do it with the labour market of the 21st century and with the fact that we all live longer. That is beautiful in itself, but that also allows us all to enjoy our pension for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u56	I would like to support that and note, as a nuance to Mr Elzinga's summary of, among other things, the expert meeting, that it is simply not true that, for example, employers' organisations have said that this is not preferable to the old one. On the contrary, they have said exactly the opposite. In fact, I would like it to be quoted correctly. More importantly, however, I agree with Mr Elzinga that this is about supporting the current system. That is important, and that is also an important responsibility for us, but it is not enough. When the Secretary of State speaks of a social dialogue, we must be careful not to talk about solidarity and individualisation in five, six or ten years' time, when we want to have a real macro-economically stable pension very quickly, in which the funds are given more than now the opportunity to do what they are on this earth, and that is good investment, so that there is an indexed multiplier that we can pay out to the beneficiaries. I'd like to have another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u57	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u58	Mr Elzinga, Mr Kok was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u59	I can make a very wide-ranging comment on this, but I do not do that for a while and because I have already answered Mr Esser's question. In May, I would like to present the main paper to both chambers. It looks closely at what we do in the 21st century and what this means for the timeline. In fact, with the honourable Member of the PvdA, I do not think it should take decades. That would be crazy. You have to want to get started. So I'm sure that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u60	I came in a little later. The Secretary of State had already begun. I heard her say that she had divided her speech into four cubes. I have the impression that she has now come to the end of her speech. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u61	No, I have a total of six cubes. I'm working on the fourth now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u62	I have just been addressed by Mr Postema and I would like to respond very briefly to him. I did not say that all ten experts felt that the legislative proposal should not continue in any way. After all, everyone has pointed out that the proposal also contains improvements. That is what I and all the other spokesmen indicated in the first term. Everyone, however, really everyone, was very critical of the indexing possibilities and the investment opportunities of the funds. I pointed that out. Anyone can read this in the public report that is on our site.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u63	I'll take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u64	Briefly on the dialogue and the vision to which the dialogue should lead. In the first instance, I spoke about the complexity of the procedure. The Secretary of State is dealing daily with all those draft laws that have already passed or are yet to come. It's a very complicated playing field. Is it intended that the integral vision, or final vision, I do not know what the term used by the Secretary of State will be available for this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u65	It's always hard to predict things like this. When the main paper lands in the Chambers, it is of course up to the Parliament to look closely at it and give suggestions to the cabinet. I assume that the cabinet will remain in office until 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u66	I hope we can do that after tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u67	If so, after May 2015, we will have two more years to take the steps I have just mentioned. That's a real time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u68	Mr. Ester, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u69	Two years? I think the Secretary of State only has a year left.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u70	I think the elections are in May 2017. Next year it will be 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u71	So the Secretary of State's planning is that the vision will be there for this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u72	I would like that, because that means that we are all aware of the urgency of the whole and that, on the basis of the main paper in May next year, we can colour the basis of the new system well. Mr Postema has just said the same. That is why I think it is so important that the opinion of the ESC should come soon. That's just part of it. Then we can all shape it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u73	Finally, Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u74	Then I mark that the Secretary of State says that she hopes that the integrated vision will come about during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u75	Yes, and we all know that this will lead to legislative changes. We all know that this brings with it timelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u76	So it's an intermediate phase after all. I hear the Secretary of State say she's going to present a final vision next year...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u77	It's a headline note.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u78	It's a headline note. We've finished the consultation phase, no matter how thin it was. We are now going to the dialogue phase. I have indicated in my analysis that we have the impression that the new system, with all its elements, has already given us the impression that we have already called them incorrect elements, and that they have made a considerable advance on the establishment of a new system, whatever that may look like. I do not have the impression that the Secretary of State already has a very clear picture of this. Can the Secretary of State confirm that an advance is already being made? Suppose the interference of the elements we consider undesirable in the new system continues, will the Secretary of State repair the system if another final model comes out of the bus? I understood last night in the first period of discussion by almost all those present that there are still some hesitations and that bottlenecks are being identified in the system. So my questions are as follows. Is there an advance already being made on the final results? Are the contours actually too deep?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u79	Could you please finish your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u80	Yes. The second question is: if so, will the Secretary of State fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u81	I have already answered the first question. I have already said that in the short and medium term this must support the current system well. That is the answer to the first question. If the main paper is in place and we would change the system, we should, of course, see what that means for the financial review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u82	Shortly, Mr. Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u83	Will the Secretary of State carry out an evaluation at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u84	Mr Ester has asked for the new ftk to be evaluated. I'll get to it later. I don't think that's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u85	Does the Secretary of State make a commitment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u86	I'll get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u87	I think it would be good to refresh the Secretary of State's memory on two points. The first is that I know that the next elections for the Dutch Parliament will take place at the end of September 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u88	May 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u89	Good. Let me move on to the second point. I will have a detailed discussion with Mr Thissen on this later. I think I recall that the Secretary of State said in the discussion of the Witteveen Bills that, at least during this cabinet period, I believe that even in the second half of 2015 she would come up with a note that would give some insight into the conversation she is having with the various organisations. I assume this is still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u90	Oh, yeah. That's the headline paper. I would like to present this in May 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u91	I would ask Members to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to continue her speech for the time being. Don't interrupt for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u92	I come to a question from Mr Ester of the Christian Union. The question is broader, by the way. He asked about the development of key elements in lower regulation. It was also a question from Mr Backer. Mr Ester and Mr Backer have asked what the considerations are to work out certain elements in lower regulation and what the timetable is. The Christian Union points to the recovery plans, the feasibility test and the prudent person rule. Let me begin by saying that my intentions on these matters are no different from those of the draft decision which I sent to the First Chamber. In that sense, a total judgment is possible. I am also thinking of the same approach in the other parts. That the feasibility test and the further elaboration of the prudent person rule in the decision fk countries is in line with the current distribution between law and lower regulation. In general, the basic principles and principles are laid down in the law and the technical impact is reflected in the lower regulation. Finally, I come to the timeline. It is my intention to bring lower regulation into effect at the same time as the law we are discussing today. I have taken good note of the feelings of the Chamber. Many people want to know in advance what the aim of the lower regulation is. Mr Backer made that perfectly clear. Following on from the question of whether the policy freedom of pension funds would be restricted, I would like to comment on the substance of this issue. Especially with regard to the complex issue we are discussing this week, it is important that everyone is informed in good time about the policy changes in the lower regulation so that this information can be included in the judgment-making process. The same applies to the question of whether the policy proposals have an impact on governance aspects. That brings me to the next block: the policy freedom of the funds. Many questions have been asked on this subject. This is, of course, about administrative responsibility. Occasionally an image arises as if the management of a fund would have become an unnecessary activity, because the new ftk would regulate everything closed. On that point, I would like to take away all the concerns. Funds remain responsible, as at present, for determining contributions and indexations within the framework of the social partners' pension arrangements and within the framework of the FTC. Even now, there are rules that limit the degree of this indexation. Apart from fiscal limits, these are the conditions arising from the requirement to restore the required own funds within the remaining period of the recovery plan. Particular attention should be paid here to investment policy, as pension fund managers remain responsible for this. That is where fund managers take their prudential responsibility, as Mr Backer called it. This is about the balance between risk and return, of course within the labour-conditional agreements made by the social partners. In addition, the amended recovery plan system improves the freedom of funds in relation to investment policy. There is no longer a fixed end date for the recovery plans, which means that funds no longer need to be forced to take risks back. Because of this new recovery system, there is less risk of abrupt discounts. This allows funds to consider, inter alia, reducing their degree of interest rate coverage. Funds will also be allowed to do so, despite the fact that they do not currently have the required security buffers. Their coverage must be above the minimum required own funds; otherwise irresponsible risks will be taken. By reducing interest rate hedges, it is possible to benefit more from a possible increase in interest rates, allowing for a faster indexing. Once again, I have listened carefully to this Chamber and noted that some Members of this Chamber say: now such a fund can make one-off adjustments to investment policy. Isn't that a little low? Because if the new ftk enters, a fund that is above the minimum own funds requirement may change the investment policy once. I have debated this widely with the House of Representatives. The members of the House of Representatives said in the second instance, it is actually a good idea to leave it that way now and to see if it works out well in the long run. Because we are, of course, afraid that the gambling for resurrection is not involved in investing. Of course, it is always the case that funds can adjust their investment policy downwards in terms of risk, but I would like to maintain that one-off riskier investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u93	I understand that there is at least the opportunity to come up with a new framework for adapting the strategic investment policy. However, it is conceivable that, on the basis of new pension contracts, adjustments to parameters or substantially altered external circumstances, funds will still have a serious need for policy adjustment. I believe that the proposal is clearly behind us. Article 13a (5) of the Decision includes a test by DNB to ensure that that gamble for resurrection does not take place. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Secretary of State, perhaps in a second term, whether that freedom can be given immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u94	I think the step towards offering this opportunity much more often is simply too early. However, I would imagine that if, in that announced investigation that Mr Vermeij's motion in the House of Representatives asked me about interest-rate hedge bottlenecks, you look very closely at whether the policy needs to be adjusted. However, I could also imagine the following with regard to the evaluation; I would like to come back to that. If I have understood Mr Ester correctly, that is a reasonable period of time. I can therefore imagine that, in this evaluation, you will, in particular, take a look at this point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u95	I think that appeal from the House of Representatives was very justified because of the cover-up of interest rate risks. However, that is not what we are talking about here. This is really about the offensive and strategic investment policy to make the returns needed for future indexation. I shall come back to that myself in the second term. I have already announced this by way of a motion, because we really believe that we should give the funds more room, with the delay I have just referred to, than the proposal of the Secretary of State is currently being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u96	I take note of this for a moment, but I cannot hide the fact that I still think it is important that we should be careful not only in the Netherlands but also elsewhere in the world about the events of recent years. Then I come to a question from D66. Mr. Backer asked about the prudent person. He says that this is an open standard, that is the implementation of the fund management and that the Nederlandsche Bank supervises, and not the other way around. Mr Backer would like to know whether I share that analysis. He also asked me how I look at the prudent person principle. In order to remove any misunderstanding, the proposals on the prudent person are not about introducing new standards and rules, but about establishing existing practice in funds and supervisors. It improves the transparency of this practice now, but the open character of the prudent person remains unchanged. The starting point remains that a fund behaves as a good family father in investment policy and so invests in the interests of all claims and beneficiaries. The fact that it remains an open standard is also reflected in the freedom with regard to investment policy that I have just described. Then I come to the question of the spokesperson of GroenLinks, Mr Thissen, whether the new FTK is really something for the supervisor. One might even ask, he continues, what exactly is the situation with the directors of these pension funds; do they have anything to run? Here is also a response to GroenLinks' first-term theorem that the role of DNB would be increased by the new ftk. I am very keen to say that this is by no means the case. The supervisory authority will not be given any further powers under the legislative proposal and the lower regulation announced. I'm gonna show you that again. Mr Backer of D66 asked whether supervision should not be based on principle rather than rule based. In general, I think... Oh, I see Mr. Thissen rushing to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u97	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the reassuring words about the not becoming increasingly powerful of the Dutch Bank as a supervisor. That's one thing. The second is that the governing bodies of these pension funds have a very important role to play. We've also changed the composition of the board. There are also consumers of pensions and still a little too little future consumers of pensions. Those drivers must have something to drive, of course. Otherwise you will be on the rope of the Dutch Bank. The Secretary of State says that the Dutch Bank is not becoming more powerful by this supervisory framework, but the governments have less possibility of really sovereign management within that framework, given the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u98	The directors do have a firm responsibility to look very closely at investment policy and the possibility of indexing. Within the framework conditions of the social partners and the FTC, they should also consider the exact nature of the premium. Those boards really have something to do. It is not true that they only have to put those ticks, which Mr Thissen was talking about; they really do not. I am also pleased that the Chamber has agreed to governance, because it will enable the boards to do their job properly. I also agree with Mr Thissen that the average age of drivers could be slightly reduced. I talked about principle based versus rule based, if I may put it in good Dutch. This is, of course, about the principles and not necessarily about the precise measures. It's really about the distribution issues. Then you can't always be satisfied with just starting points. Participants may expect the government to make unbalanced choices impossible in advance. Concrete rules also provide the regulator with more guidance to monitor. This seems to me to be important, especially where distribution issues can have a huge impact on the individual but also on the system. That will, in essence, be no different, under the new rules, than it is now. Once again, we are imposing an interest rate, we are determining the recovery plan system, and even now, the indexation is sometimes limited by the need for funds to show that they can restore the buffer within the remaining recovery period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u99	I think that, as so often, I believe that this is a term of former Prime Minister Kok, which is'size'. I come back to a point made by the Secretary of State earlier: the Chamber can always see all these decisions. However, I had to ask for it before we were given a consolidated decision. I don't blame the Secretary of State for that, but it's quite common. It's hard to judge what the total looks like. If I look at the decision now, I think that I am worried that there are not enough points of reference, a concern that might arise from an enforcement body, a body that is apparently listening to this debate. I understand that after the 2007 crisis, we had to make up for delays, but when I look at the decision, I think that we are moving pretty far away from principle-based and to rule-based. It's about size. We may not be able to find each other in that, but I think it is a point that we should continue to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u100	I am grateful to Mr Backer for raising this issue so prominently. Because it's good for all of us. For us as legislators; we do so together. Also for the supervisor, who must of course have that in mind, and also for the fund managers. That balance, that balance, is always essential. If you look at principles versus real regulation, then the measure is very clear; I also think it is right that Mr Backer should put that here again. By the way, I like to say that Mr Backer was the one who asked for that consolidated AMvB. That is not really usance, but let me say for my part that I was happy to send that AMvB not only to Mr Backer but to all Members. Mr President, with your permission, I come to the last block, the 'other' block. I hope that I have answered all the questions put by Members. If I've missed anything, I'd like to hear it in second term. Mr Elzinga has asked whether I want the Netherlands to be at the top of Mercer's international rankings soon. Of course it's nice when we're at the top of a list, but it's also relative. We sometimes fall on Mercer's list, while we score even better than the year before. That happened to us this year. Or we're going down on the rankings, as in 2012, by a newcomer like Denmark, who's never been on that list before. What matters to me now is that the existing contract can be properly implemented. That is why I would like to resolve the bottlenecks in the existing ftk in a responsible way. I think it is equally important that we secure the basis of support for the future as well. That is why, of course, we are also working on the pension dialogue. Place three on Mercer's list is still a fantastic place, but any ambition is never wrong. Shall I put it this way? Then I come to a question by Mr Beckers of the VVD about risk sharing and the generation debate. He said that there is a danger of creating an atmosphere in which risks no longer need to be shared. Sharing risks is indeed inherent in the benefit agreement. This is the most common pension agreement in our country and it is therefore also a determining factor for the current system. That is precisely why we have been looking for a comprehensive package that can be expected in advance to produce a balanced impact for the different generations. That is why we have also chosen both to adapt the recovery plan system in favour of older generations and to adapt the indexation rules, which is precisely in favour of younger generations. The calculations of the CPB have shown that the whole is indeed balanced. What is also important here is that the distribution rules are clear in advance and that what we are doing is transparent: transparency about the spread of setbacks through the revised recovery plansystem, but also transparency about the distribution of windfalls through the indexation rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u101	In society, however, we are increasingly seeing that transparency is not present among those involved. This creates an atmosphere of "the other has it better than me." The other pays more for him than for him, at least for his feelings. That atmosphere and that matching culture threatens to get a size in the country that the VVD finds undesirable. We would like to make a compelling appeal to the government on this issue to make a contribution which does not highlight these differences between generations. We are asking the government to emphasise the clarity of generations and the responsibility for each other and to look from there at what is to be done to contribute to this. We ask the government to emphasise that it is natural that one generation should contribute to the other. Sometimes that happens from left to right and sometimes from right to left. However, we are in a situation where pensions are talked about as if one has to pay more for the other, while the other thinks that the other does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u102	It is really nice that Mr Beckers puts this down again. It is a great challenge, for me, but also for all of us, to show on the basis of this ftk that all generations are being treated fairly. That is, of course, the essence of this proposal, and we need to highlight that much more. I agree with Mr Beckers that now the connotation is that one generation would sacrifice itself for another or the other. We just shouldn't have that. I think that Mr Beckers and I very much agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u103	I think it's a moving story and I'd almost sit down again if I didn't want to make a comment. I said in my speech that the CPB, in the context of the generational test, which the Secretary of State is so touching, has conveniently assumed a fictitious pension fund with a coverage rate of about 110%. That's pretty high. I have also said that we cannot really draw good conclusions on that basis. Moreover, the pressure to assess the calculations is already high. Based on one fictional, almost synthetic fund, it is impossible to draw the conclusion that there would be a generational balance. Why didn't the Secretary of State pass on seven real funds with seven real levels of coverage, in which there are differences in financial position and composition of stocks? I think that would have given a much better picture. Now, on a very narrow and unreliable basis, the Secretary of State gives an indication, as if there were a generational balance. I absolutely cannot share that with the Secretary of State. I'd like to get a reaction to that. My second point is that discounts and non-indexing cannot simply be removed from each other. I will also deal with this in my second term. The Secretary of State suggests that it would benefit the elderly if discounts were delayed. The reality is that if the recovery plan is implemented next year under the new discount rules, discounts will indeed take place, albeit in smaller steps. And then the protection of indexing. If no indexation is applied and if it is not applied for a series of 20 years, it will certainly be to the detriment of the pensioner. The same applies, however, to young people who still have an active pension. They also do not see an increase in the value of their pension arrangements. Moreover, these young people under Witteveen I and II have already been badly hit by a draconian reduction in their build-up. Then you have to think of 25% off.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u104	Mr Kok, can you close your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u105	I'd like to have a comment on this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u106	I was bravely writing along, because it was a number of questions. The CPB did not rely solely on an average pension in the transfer accounts. It has examined a number of pension funds. It has also looked at the different generations. So there hasn't been a night of ice at that point. If the new ftk were not to be introduced, we would have to work on the basis of the old ftk. This means that retired people could once again face abrupt discounts. Because interest rates are now so low, the coverage rates are accordingly low. Then naked that again. Then it is much more enjoyable for the average retired in the Netherlands if you can spread that in ten years' time. Indexing as such is fun for people who are now retired, but you must also want to do so for young people. Young people only enjoy that much later. If you really want to index forward, it's a good thing you're doing it on the basis of the new ftk. If you do that on the basis of just indexing, I went into that at the beginning around the real level of coverage, then you give the current older generations quite a bit extra, but you leave the young people empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u107	I keep hearing the Secretary of State draw that generational map. I'm sorry about that. I think that's a little risky. We want to do everything in this debate, except play generations against each other. We want joint solutions. The CPB shows figures which, in my opinion, are still cautious: that this cabinet's policy leads to a reduction of 5 percentage points in the replacement ratio over ten years. When we talk about a 5 percentage point lower replacement rate in ten years, that also affects the current workers and even the current young people, because everyone is building up a lower pension. That replacement ratio affects all of us, not just the elderly. I am very sorry that it has been repeated here over and over again that limiting the indexing space would only affect the current elderly and that young people would benefit from it. That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u108	I must say that I very much support the first part of Mr Elzinga's speech. We are indeed doing everything we can on the basis of the new ftk not to turn generations against each other. However, the second part of his speech is not in line with that. If you implement the replacement rate, as Mr Elzinga calls it, immediately and immediately, it will have a big plus for the current pensioners. You really need to keep looking at the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u109	Mr Elzinga, very briefly, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u110	That is true, Mr President, and I will certainly come back to this, but I do not understand this answer. Can the Secretary of State repeat the sentence on the replacement ratio? I didn't quite get it. I argue that the CPB is therefore not ourselves, but the CPB is predicting that the replacement ratio will fall by 5 percentage points as a result of the policy in ten years' time. My point is that everyone suffers from that. Not only the current pensioners but also the current workers suffer from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u111	Then you should look at how the percentages work out for those who are already retired and for those who are building up. Once again, the balance sheet is of course essential. I would now like to address a question from Mr Hoekstra. He asked me about the generational effect for young people in the new CPB calculation. According to Mr Hoekstra, this is only 0.1% instead of 4.5%. He's asking why. The difference between the 4.5% in the previous CPB note and the -1.1% in the new CPB note has two causes. A package of measures has been calculated on the basis of the old UFR, which we have just talked about. The new calculation has been passed on to the new UFR which would enter into force on 1 January. The coverage rate has decreased in the period between the old and the new calculation, which means that older people benefit more from the protection against substantial reductions in the bill; hence this difference. Because the percentage is now -1.1, you could say that the CPB transfer has become even more generation proof. Mr Nagel asked about the government's view that older people are many times less likely to catch up than young people. Actually, I've already gone into that. When comparing the situation of older people and young people, it is important to look at the whole picture. If the economy develops favourably, young people are more likely to catch up because they have a longer horizon. On the other hand, however, the risk to young people is much greater because of this longer horizon. If the economy develops less favourably, young people's pensions may be significantly lower. The CPB is showing that, too. If a catch-up index were possible, this would be at the disadvantage of younger generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u112	Mr Kok, really a short question and otherwise it will be for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u113	Yes, I have a very short question. I have said that older people, pensioners, will not be indexed for a long time and will therefore suffer a severe loss of purchasing power. Young people are going to notice this, too. How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that older people who do not have a horizon to improve themselves economically are trapped in an almost dramatic purchasing power situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u114	I've already gone into that. Since the economic crisis, it has become much more difficult for pension funds to index. That's what the old people are seeing now. Of course, we have all stressed this. The fact that you can now index slightly less quickly than with the old ftk does indeed work less favorably for the elderly. However, I keep saying that, on the other hand, if you fall below the level of cover, then under the minimum requirement of own funds, you will not immediately see an abrupt depreciation of pensions for the elderly. Of course, that is a good thing, because in recent years it has been discussed that older people sometimes received up to 7% less pension, because very abrupt cuts had to be made. That, of course, is also inconvenient for purchasing power. I now turn to the question of the Christian Union as to what the basic ingredients for the recovery plan are. The ingredients are: recovery capacity, expected returns on investment and additional recovery measures, such as the absence of indexation, the use of a catch-up premium insofar as this fits in with the commitments made by the social partners and as a last resort also discounts. The Christian Union spokesperson also asked if there would be a uniform format for recovery plans. Yes, there are so-called "coverage" templates in the recovery problem. These templates are made available by the Nederlandsche Bank and are thus connected to the system that is already being used in practice. Mr Postema asked about the examination of the impact of the interest cover in the new system. That was Mrs Vermeij's motion, which we were just discussing. Discussions with the Nederlandsche Bank have taken place on the questioning and planning of the investigation. As a result of these discussions, I assume that the research can be completed before the summer. The spokesperson of 50PLUS asked whether direct returns have remained constant in recent years. Funds invest on average at around 50% in bonds and 50% in shares. The direct yield on bonds, the remuneration, has fallen structurally in recent years. The indirect return consists of price increases on bonds and shares. In the case of shares, there is a volatile image. There have been good and bad years in recent years. The rise in the price of bonds in recent years has been a result of the fall in interest rates. Bonds issued in the past give a higher remuneration than the current market interest rate. As a result, the price of these bonds has increased. However, if interest rates were to rise again, this return would disappear again as snow for the sun. This indicates that the low interest rates for the funds have not only been unfavourable. This results in more than half of the return that funds have achieved in recent years. I now turn to a question from Mr Nagel and Mr Hoekstra. Am I sure that the relationship between the legislative proposal and the EU Charter can be maintained? Yeah, I'm sure I have faith in that. I am confident that the legislative proposal will not unduly infringe the protection of property laid down in the EU Charter. First of all, the Council of State is standardising legislative proposals in accordance with international law. The Council did not comment on this. In preparing the legislative proposal, the relationship with European law was examined. The conclusion is always that the legislative proposal does not infringe the right of ownership protected by the European Convention on Human Rights. In response to questions from older people's organisations, the draft law has also been tested on the basis of property protection under the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is clear from this Charter and from the case law that the protection of property of the EU Charter is identical to that of the ECHR. The legislative proposal thus also meets the test of the EU Charter. Finally, I would like to address a question from Mr Kok of the PVV. He asked why social security benefits could be indexed and not pensions. I think that's a bit of a question about the familiar road. In both cases, the financial position determines whether it is indexed. In the case of social insurance benefits, linking to the statutory minimum wage is the starting point. Most pension schemes aim to index pensions and accrued entitlements annually to the extent that resources allow. However, because of their financial position, many funds have been unable to index pensions for years, as we have just said. After the restoration of their coverage levels, pension funds can also start indexing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u115	Mr. Kok, briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u116	For my part, you're turning things around a little bit. Social benefits are automatically included. That principle is generally accepted, including by the Secretary of State, I think. A good pension is an indexed pension, at all times. That was said yesterday, by the spokesman of the Labour Party, the party of the Secretary of State. That is the starting point, the first principle of a pension fund. I would say that the Secretary of State should at least endorse that. The practice resulting from this new ftk is very different, because in 20 to 30 years time there will be no indexing. That is a step backwards which the Secretary of State will certainly not be able to afford. How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u117	There are two cost carriers in the game. It is also a political choice to link social insurance to the statutory minimum wage. You'll understand that I think that's a great thing. That's paid for from the community funds. Pensions are paid out of the funds. We've been talking about that all night, and we talked about that yesterday. If the funds do not have enough money because it has been economical and because people live longer, you have to go to hell. So you can't compare those two cases. They are two different cost carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u118	Leniemia, Mr. Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u119	I'm gonna go with a different line of reasoning. The funds are not too small in cash. The money's all over the boards at the funds. There's 1,300 billion euros. They cannot index because the valuation of the liabilities must be based on an ultra-low accounting rate. It is optically leading to substantial cover, which prevents us from indexing. So that's a big problem. If we have a real interest rate, we could index it. Indeed, there is a huge difference from the accounting rate for the valuation of the premium of the liabilities. That is a very different approach. I will come back to that in second place. I'd like to give a different presentation of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u120	Here it is avenged that Mr Kok was not yet present when I started. I started by saying that there is indeed a lot of money in our pension funds. That's true. In the second pillar there are 1,100 billion in pension funds. That's very clear. However, I have also deliberately said something about the real level of cover and the liabilities of pension funds that are opposed to this huge amount of money. Those obligations are higher than the amount we are talking about. Then you have to look at how you're putting the fucking piss to shit. I will end in the same way as I started, saying that it is very important that this new financial review framework underpins what we all think is so important here, namely our pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u121	Thank you. Mr Nagel has asked for a very short suspension. After the suspension, we will continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u122	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we debated here until 00.30 a.m. I believe that tonight we have the ambition to extend it until 2.15 p.m. and drink the poison cup completely. If the First Chamber has an effort commitment, then at least it will do so these days. It fully honours this commitment because the government has identified a large number of legislative proposals as urgent. In my group's view, the tragedy is that we are making a huge effort to help the Netherlands out of exactly the wrong direction, but that will have already become the Secretary of State in the first term. I raised five points on behalf of the CDA in the first term. I have a genuine personal appreciation of the Secretary of State, but four of those five points have not led to the start of a convincing answer. There is one point where that has come to pass. I'll give you that in equestrian terms. That is the point of the UFR. I had prepared, I might say, a flawless motion which could have been widely supported, but I will leave it on the same shelf on which the Secretary of State should have wanted to leave this bill, as I have argued. I think we've all done enough damage to the Christmas spirit today. That's why I'm leaving it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u123	I call Mr Ester. I don't see him in the room, so I'm gonna skip him. I call Mr Elzinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u124	Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether I can do it as short as Mr Hoekstra. I can't promise you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u125	You have registered for ten minutes, but I hope it can be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u126	Last night I outlined in detail the position of the SP Group on this bill. I see a number of improvements on the current financial review framework, but I also see that the new ftk has led to a serious reduction in purchasing power for current and future pensioners. The possibilities for pension funds to be able to steer the indexation of pensions, now and in the future, are severely restricted. In my group's view, the proposal is incomplete and not in good consultation with the pension sector and all stakeholders. The current ftk is not future-proof, because it is far too interest-sensitive, but the new ftk is a deterioration in the current situation in important areas. In my view, the legislative proposal and the lower legislation are fairly simple to make essential improvements without dropping the benefits that my group believes the legislative proposal has. Of course, it would have been a great deal if the Secretary of State had listened immediately to the sector and did not need these improvements. That would certainly have done well to support the proposal and confidence in the system. I also expressed the fear last night that a short-sighted, improper short-term argument regarding an expenditure counter by reducing the ABP's contribution to the 2015 budget would play a role in the great rush that the Secretary of State has made with this proposal. I note this evening that the threat of a substantial budget noose of 2 billion was indeed one of the reasons why the cabinet is in a hurry with this proposal. That amount was not shared with all members, because we could have derived it ourselves from the coverage, so the Secretary of State told me. I take note of that, but I have also noted that before the said note was shared with some Members in this House, a large majority in our committee did not yet see the urgency to deal with it before 1 January. For my group, at least this urgent procedure would not have been necessary for Christmas. We would have had more time to fix more. We are standing here because the VVD spokesperson and the D66 spokesperson last Monday that was 8 December announced in the media that they had come to the new understanding that rapid treatment was necessary. What has been the underlying reason for this remains guesswork, I fear. At D66 this was also a pre-announcement of the content of such moving insights. That turned out to be the first time last night. Most of the critical questions had apparently already been adequately answered in advance, although fortunately there was also a debate on them. A lot of new questions have been asked. Whether or not the fundamental criticism, previously expressed on behalf of the group in the newspaper, has been removed from the VVD, will soon have to be demonstrated. Last night, I found it reassuring that the VVD spokesperson still had a lot of critical questions about it. I have a lot of those questions, too. I have also listened to many remaining questions and concerns from other groups in the first period. I listened carefully tonight to the response of the Secretary of State to these concerns and questions. In any case, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her willingness to ask the Dutch Bank to wait for the final UFR for the insurers of EIOPA to be introduced with the introduction of a new UFR, which is expected in February 2015. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for her close consultation with the field. If that can close the gap between the field and the government and people will feel heard later, that will certainly be a gain. My main concern, as I pointed out yesterday, lies in the limitation of the indexing possibilities. On important points, I am really not satisfied with the answer given by the Secretary of State. I can see the support of the other spokesmen for important changes. I have already mentioned the UFR. Fortunately, there has been a satisfactory response and a commitment. Perhaps we can make some proposals with constructive thinking. I think other spokesmen will come back to that as well. Despite the rush, at least I'll give it a try tonight. If we want to have the best system in the world quickly again, according to the international recommendations, we should increase the level of coverage by, among other things, a wider investment. Meanwhile, we need to ensure a better living income for pensioners, so Mercer tells us. I mean a better living income for current and future pensioners. I am sorry that this debate draws a lot of the generation map, as I said in the case of interruption. I think that this is risky for the system's support, but I also think that this is wrong. According to the CPB, I would like to say once again that government policy is leading to a reduction of 5 percentage points in the replacement rate over the next ten years. That affects everyone, now but also in the future. According to the SP Group, that cannot be the intention. I believe that the importance of our future pension system is greater than the budgetary importance for the 2015 budget. Yesterday I set out several elements in the proposal which limit the indexing ambition of pension funds. The most important element is the additional limitation provided by the new financial review framework for the policy freedom of those funds. In a separate block, the Secretary of State has argued in detail that pension funds have every freedom, but within the framework of the new financial review framework. And that framework is precisely the problem. A simple solution is therefore not to introduce the whole bill. The bill also provides for this possibility. If the State Secretary did not introduce Article 1, parts O and E, the funds would be able to make policy. In our mind, we have the enhanced supervision that has been successfully defended by the Secretary of State in this Chamber. If the Secretary of State undertakes not to introduce parts O and E of Article 1. These are only small parts of the whole bill to change the financial review framework.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the event that the Secretary of State does not want to make this commitment, I also have a suggestion within the proposal, through minor changes to the lower regulation, to create a little more scope for prudential indexation. The indexation of accrued pension should be based, within the new financial review framework, on the pension fund's own funds above a coverage rate of 110%, but only on the rate that can be given future-proof. On average, this means that each percent indexing requires 10% own funds. But, yes, it's only counted from a coverage rate of 110%. For a coverage rate of 110% there is therefore a 0% indexing option. For a coverage rate of 120% there is only 1% indexing option. For a coverage rate of 135%, full wage indexation can only be provided. All in all, you can see that the new rules lead to the raising of funds in pension funds at the expense of the level of benefit. As I said, the CPB figures show that the pension result will be 5 percentage points lower in the next ten years in a median scenario as a result of the new rules from 2015. I think we can prevent that. I have a motion to that effect. Mr Elzinga, Mr Nagel, Mr Kok, Mr Hoekstra and Mr Thissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the CPB calculations show that the replacement ratio is expected to decrease by 5 percentage points over the next 10 years due to regulatory changes in 2015;]] [[considers that this decline is too severe;]] [[Whereas the calculation rules for future-proof indexing exclude 10% of the actual buffer;]] [[considers that the legislative proposal would be more balanced if the calculation rules for future-proof indexation were based on the actual buffer;]] [[calls on the Government, in the concept of General Measure of Management, to amend Article 15 (3) to include the actual buffer instead of a fictitious buffer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33972-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u127	I would like to hear from Mr Elzinga how we should weigh this motion. Suppose there's broad support for this in this house. Is this also the cold from the sky?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u128	I find that a difficult question, but I want to think about it seriously. If pension funds were to be given back the freedom of policy to make their own policies, then this is the commitment I asked the Secretary of State to make, then the cold is out of the blue. Within the FTK, the policy freedom to create investment policy and thus indexing opportunities is restricted on a whole range of fronts. But I think that the commitment on the UFR and this motion will create room. I know there are still a number of suggestions. I look forward to the constructive proposals of the other parties. If all these proposals create room for a better indexation policy, then that is a big profit. Then we could vote on the motions first. Perhaps we can then consider ourselves as political groups. I do not rule out the fact that we would appreciate this very positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u129	But all that has to happen tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u130	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u131	I call Mr Ester. He was just missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u132	I wasn't so much lost, Mr. Chairman. You may know that there is also a very interesting debate outside this Chamber on other matters. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to our questions. This is an important debate for her too. I think it was good for tonight's debate that she made the UFR bid early in the debate. That also led to a slightly different frame of the bill. Many thanks to her officials, too. They have been excellently supportive of the Secretary of State for the last two days, until this late hour. My group always has a great deal of respect for that. All in all, we are looking back on a good debate. It is an important debate; it is about something. My group can justify tightening up the rules governing pension funds. In fact, it's very important. We are very much in favour of it. It has been said many times this evening: the economic crisis has shown that the funds need to be better equipped with the volatility of the financial markets in order to cope with the volatility of financial markets. We gotta get those buffers up. We ask the banks to do so, but we also ask the pension funds to do so. For my group, it is crucial that the intergenerational balance of the new system is in order. Our pension system, at least a nominal pension system, is a zero-sum game. What comes with one group just goes off at the other. According to the CPB overdrafts, there is a reasonable intergenerational balance sheet. What strikes me is that the representatives of the elderly's associations and the elderly's parties, in particular, have reported massively in the lobby circuit. I don't care about that. This is fine. It's okay. That's how it belongs in a representative democracy. That's how it's supposed to be in a participatory society. However, my group regrets that the youth organisations have not shown themselves to a large extent. As far as we're concerned, that's a bit of a missed opportunity. Today's pensioners are entitled to a good pension, but the youngest generation too must safeguard its interests. This new ftk is an important step. It also evokes a lot of social debate. The Christian Union Group believes, in view of this, that we need to make a firm and in-depth assessment of the FTC. Then we are talking about the evaluation of the rules of the game and about the impact on indexing, on shortening, on coverage levels, on power and on intergenerational justice. My group has prepared a motion on this point. I'd like to hand it over to you. Mr Ester, Mr Thissen, Mr Backer, Mr Beckers, Mr Hoekstra and Mr Elzinga proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no provision for evaluation in the legislative proposal for adjustment of the financial review framework;]] [[Whereas this bill introduces new rules for pension funds which are of great importance for a good pension for current and future generations of pensioners and for intergenerational justice;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a comprehensive and thorough study of the impact of the Financial Review Framework Adjustment Act within three years of its entry into force and to send it to both Chambers of the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33972-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u133	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, during the heat of the debate, when the name D66 came up, I described the letter D as "turning door." Later on in the evening it appeared to me that this had arrived in a harder way than I intended. Certainly on the eve of Christmas, I take back the remark. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u134	Mr. Chairman. I appreciate Mr. Nagel's equestrian gesture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u135	The discrepancy in the debate is that legislation is done here with all kinds of techniques and calculation methods, while the people we represent look at the practice. According to the FNV president, a young 34-year-old who advocates indexing pensions, this practice means that nurses and construction workers have fallen short of €1,000 in recent years and that, if this continues, that deficit will reach €2,000. It has been argued that funds have an average return of 8% per year over 40 years. If you look at the table of DNB for 2013, you can see that the total benefits amount to 26 billion, the total premiums amount to 33 billion and the direct investment income is approximately 16 billion. If you index 1.5%, 500 million goes down, and then there's really nothing wrong. Those are the math examples that people see. So they do not understand what this government and the Hague politics are doing. This indexing is also important for young people because it builds their future. Soon, however, they will have unnecessarily low pensions. We don't talk about rich elderly people either. We often talk about people who have a gross pension from €500 to €600 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u136	However, I would like to hear from Mr Nagel how this picture of rapid and substantial indexing, an extremely sympathetic gesture that you can hardly disagree with, relates to the following year, when the investment income suddenly falls short. We are still living in the world of the current pension contract, where people are still being told that they are actually getting what is in it. I tried to make that speech myself yesterday. I go a long way with Mr Nagel, speaking about the discount rate, when he says that we could do this in a different way, since you offer clarity in your pension promises, in the sense that it is an uncertain world. I do not hear Mr Nagel on that. Can he say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u137	An example. At the ABP people are very careful. That's where the assets in 2012 were 260 billion. A careful but very careful calculation of the income from premiums, direct income, such as dividends, and total clarity of expenditure is forecast to increase to 400 billion by 2020. Those are the facts. This makes it absolutely possible to conduct a different financial policy than is currently the case. People do not understand that and think it is unfair, but it is also damaging to the economy because money is no longer being spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u138	At the ABP they were so careful that under the old, existing ftk had to be cut down considerably. Let's face that, too. I go with Mr Nagel when he says that this is an undesirable situation and that we should do it differently. That goes for the side of making cash, but also for the side of the pension promise. I regret that Mr Nagel merely highlights the one-sidedness. He thinks we should index quickly, because then everyone is happy again. However, he does not talk very much about the debt that comes from it. You can then offer less security to the beneficiaries and the participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u139	I disagree. There has been no indexing in recent years. There will now be legislation, which everyone says: it will also make indexing impossible over the next ten years. I find that unreasonable in relation to people who will never catch up again before they die. This is due to unreasonable buffers, unreasonable arithmetic rates and not to look at what is happening in practice. It is unacceptable that there should not be indexed over the next ten years. That's what everyone's hoping for. 50PLUS will therefore vote against these antisocial measures in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u140	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. In this debate and in the months preceding that, there has been an enormous unrest in the country about the future of our pension system. I drew attention to that yesterday in the first term. It is to some extent up to the Cabinet that there is insufficient capacity and adhesion for a measure which must necessarily be taken, given the consequences of the financial and economic crisis that has also affected pension funds. It is also a matter for all interested parties. They too have not been able to go to the cabinet with a shared proposal, based on sound support, and sit down with the cabinet to get out together. This applies to the social partners, pension funds and pension fund organisations. For our future, for the sustainability of the system, for the support of society for the pension system and for the financial review framework, it is very important to build consensus on this. From this point on, I am calling for this, because otherwise I will be predicting a year-long debate on the pension system and a growing concern and unrest among people who are now receiving a pension and among those with full-time employment who are now working one day a week for deferred wages that they will probably receive after their 67th and later on after their 69th. This is necessary to ensure that our pension system is maintained and that pension benefits can be paid on a sustainable basis. Everything that is being dragged into that framework, as if it were the fault of not indexing the past and, we fear, the coming time, is not right. This issue is the result of the fact that we have had to deal with a global financial and economic crisis. This has led to pension funds falling below the level of cover. This does not apply to all pension funds. Just look at the overview of the many pension funds that exist in our country. Quite a few of them could be indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u141	Mr Thissen's image is not entirely correct. Since the dip in 2008, we have had to deal with a very low calculation rate in all these years so far. It was derived from the European accounting rate, but it optically makes a huge increase in liabilities. I assume yesterday Mr Thissen explained what to mean by the term 'level of coverage'. I do not have to explain that we are now dealing with an extremely low level of coverage which prevents us from indexing. That is the real reason and not different, not because we have too little power. I have tried to explain that, but it does not seem to get through to Mr Thissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u142	Yes, we have 1361 billion in the pot, and 1200 billion in promises or raised expectations are against it, macro-wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u143	The liabilities are determined by a discount rate. Its gravity is determined by the low discount rate but it distorts the situation of pension funds. As a result, it was not possible to index. By stabbing the indexing rules it is made much heavier. I argued that yesterday. I'm repeating it now, but that's the message. I would like to pass that on to Mr Thissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u144	I appreciate the effort that Mr Kok continues to make to get our group, but perhaps also a majority in this Chamber, a different direction, but we have already made up our minds. We will support this financial review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u145	Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to endorse what the Group chairman of GroenLinks said. I think it is quite right that we have had special circumstances in recent years, where the old framework has not provided the right answer on all fronts. In terms of balance and stability, the new ftk is indeed an improvement. I tried yesterday in my contribution to point out that this is not enough, however. The government has taken a justified measure, but it is not yet sufficient to meet the requirement for an indexed pension. We have made a good contribution from this Chamber, from the various groups, to correct the proposal before us. A possible new UFR is attached to this. We are grateful to the Secretary of State for making an effort to persuade the Dutch Bank not to introduce it before the promised investigation is completed. We have also heard her say that she is going to make an effort to ensure that the composition of the committee which is examining it is so broad and external that we can look forward with confidence to its outcome. The PvdA group has indicated that it is important to give the funds real room for manoeuvre to do what they are doing on earth: investing the invested assets in such a way that there really is a multiplier. At the moment when it goes wrong, when it is cut or when it is not indexed, it is understandable that there is a tendency to keep the corset more and more. As far as we are concerned, that is the wrong direction. We need to look very closely at what such a fund is good for. We need to look very closely at the plan of such a fund, at the extent to which the policy formulated relates to the feasibility of the fund's commitment. In this sense, we think that a single adjustment to the new system is too weak. We would like funds to be able to do so more often if there is reason, of course with the test provided for in the decision in which the Dutch Bank will play a role, in order to ensure that there will be no gamble for resurrection. My group is happy to table the next motion for a resolution. Mr Postema, Mr Beuving, Mr Koning, Mr De Vries and Mr Vlietstra proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension funds wishing to adjust their strategic investment policies due to long-term policy choices or external circumstances should not do so if adjustment of the strategic investment policy would lead to an increase in investment risk and their coverage below the required equity;]] [[noting that this may hinder the optimum implementation of investment policy for a short period of time when a pension fund's assets are below the required equity;]] [[Considering that, among other things, the financial review framework needed to be revised in order to give pension funds more scope to pursue their long-term retirement ambition and to adapt the supervisory framework in a way that fits better with a long-term scheme;]] [[noting that this objective is hampered by the abovementioned restrictions on investment policy;]] [[Whereas pension funds should be prevented from increasing their investment risk only in order to emerge from a recovery situation;]] [[calls on the Government to allow pension funds to adapt their strategic investment policies in case circumstances require such as the transition to a new pension contract or the revision of the parameters as defined by the Government, provided that the evaluation and re-evaluation of the strategic investment policy, as referred to in the Financial Review Framework Decision, gives rise to Article 13.a Investment Policy, paragraph 5, and provided that a fund at the DNB supervisor can demonstrate that this adjustment is consistent with the policy formulated and the feasibility of the commitment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33972-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u146	I shall conclude with one final point. Mr Ester of the Christian Union quite rightly pointed out that within the current and future ftk there is a zero-sum game when you talk about indexing or not. That is a very fair point, and all the groups in this Chamber should be aware of it. As far as we are concerned, this is the answer to the call for an accelerated indexing within this framework. However sympathetic it may be, it is at the expense of the balance which it is intended to achieve. In my first term, I tried to argue that it is not a zero-sum game when you are going to strive for a more real contract, so that you can work with a more real discount rate, but also be more clear on the front side about the risk profile of your investment policy and your pension commitment for the future. What we would very much like to see, as I have also heard the Secretary of State say, is that in the social dialogue currently taking place about the future of pensions there is not only talk about things such as collectivity and solidarity that are important, but are, as far as we are concerned, not for discussion but rather about how to set up the system in order to effectively multiply the good practice of capital cover for invested pension money for the future. This requires more real pension contracts. We very much hope that they will be forthcoming in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Last night, when I was speaking, I outlined the picture of a school class at the zebra crossing together as a metaphor for the way in which we should move forward together in the debate on the pension system. This afternoon involuntarily gave me the feeling that we were standing there with a school class, but well, that aside. In that debate last night, my group raised three points: how prudent is still sensible and who should judge that, what intervention should the legislator make and what responsibility, and what sort of responsibility, are we not too much, or wrongly, for the change in the system? We have studied the matter at a very fast pace in this house and very intensively. The time may have been short, but this is true for more subjects. Nevertheless, I feel that we have been able to provide sufficient information. We have also been updated by many bodies. Initially, there have been a number of serious concerns. On one point, the Secretary of State met us very much this evening. We have already noticed in the debates on indexation and buffers how much a technical point, at first glance, is played out in all the debates when the interest rate is calculated. I think it is a big gain that has been discussed this evening and that the Secretary of State is going to the Netherlands Bank to talk about it. The Secretary of State has stressed the role distribution in this area: the responsibility of the bank and the system responsibility of the Ministry. In addition, our role also fits. We need to fill in that roll-back. I have spoken about the detail of the decision. I have expressed my concerns about this. The Secretary of State has tried to take that road. It has done so to some extent in relation to this decision, but it will be amended once again. On that point, I want to ensure that we are informed in good time. For these future occasions, I ask the Chamber for a ruling. Mr Backer, Mr Thissen, Mr Ester, Mr Postema and Mr Beckers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of principles and rules on legislative proposal 33972 have been delegated to the Financial Review Framework Decision on pension funds as presented to the Lower House on 23 September 2014 (Decision);]] [[Whereas the number of intermediate rules is increased and further delegation to ministerial arrangements is possible;]] [[calls on the Government to inform both chambers prior to the adoption of any policy changes to the Decision that are likely to have an impact on the governance of pension funds (including the application of the prudent person principle) and to highlight the possible impact on the fulfilment of the pension commitment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33972-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join in the call made earlier this evening by other colleagues to resume dialogue with the pension sector. I said at the very beginning of this discussion that I was shocked by what we heard at that hearing. That was about the rift. There will also be disappointment among those who attended that hearing and will see the results of this debate tonight. However, it is no different from a political decision. Going back to the consultation table seems very sensible to me. The Secretary of State announced a headline paper 2015 that could shed light on parts of this debate. An evaluation has been requested by Mr Ester. I very much support that request. This does not, of course, prevent the fact that, perhaps under the influence of the calculation rate, perhaps under the influence of observations by the supervisor or others, that parts of the decision could be discussed earlier. There must be some predictability, but it must also be adjusted wisely where necessary. I have listened once or twice tonight, including in the tax review, that D66 wants to go faster and faster. It's gonna be some kind of frame. The Secretary of State is now saying about the pension debate that she will present a vision in the next cabinet period. The fact that we always want to speed things up must also be seen in the context of the pension debate. Just for history's sake, as early as 1970, we proposed revising the pension system and looking more closely at individual claims. It is now 2014 and this discussion may be settled over the next two years. I would like to say a few words about the young people who have just been mentioned. There is a recent ten-point plan by the Young Democrats, the JOVD and the Young Socialists. So it is thought about, but we must also, of course, ensure that these thoughts are taken forward in the debate. We hope that we will work towards a pension system that is sustainable enough for grandparents, children and grandchildren and that the future choice will not be oversorted. That is why I will advise my group to support the proposal, taking into account everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u149	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering not all the questions, but a number of questions. However, the answer cannot convince my group. In fact, the Secretary of State did not address most of the essential points I mentioned in my speech last night. I can imagine that she would not go into my analysis which I gave at the time, but I would like to repeat it in essence. I therefore come back to the essence of my first-term speech. A long-passed station of an ultimate crisis in 2008 has now been used for a heavy fence to set up a nominal scheme. It ignores the fact that all the buffers have taken the dip in 2008 and since then and have increased significantly to over EUR 1,300 billion; I have just said it. So there is no problem in our eyes, except that the use of an extremely low rate of calculation as a silent killer is an optical cover for the funds, and I have just said it to one of my colleagues, Mr President, has not been allowed to lead to indexation over the last ten years, with a considerable indexing deficit. That is the shadow of Mr Draghi's current policy. The certainty that is now unnecessarily stacked on top of each other in this nftk, ignores this real problem. I didn't get to hear the Secretary of State about that. On the contrary, all these false securities have a completely counterproductive effect: a series of years of small discounts and no more indexation. The ambition of an indexed pension has thus become an illusion. This must be the starting point of each pension fund at all times. All pensioners are thus falling to 30% over the next 20 years, including the already accumulated indexing disadvantage. The active participants will also feel the increasing loss of indexation on top of the lower tax structure they have experienced following the application of the Witteveen I and II laws, which have already led to a deficit of about 25% for the active. A perk! My group also believes that this nftk has an improper effect on the dialogue on the setting up of our pension system. Given the context as outlined by me and the fact that prudent, risk-free interest rates determine unnecessary cover, my group can imagine that the Secretary of State will address these key elements. This is specifically about the weird discrepancy between the calculation rate for premiums and the obligations. That's the core of the story. In this context, the UFR could not be reduced, but could be adapted to the European update. Fortunately, after entering, I was able to observe that the Secretary of State came immediately with this hand-out to take the sting out of the debate and to reassure all parties, in the sense that this hand-off would be easy. Unfortunately, it is an improvement, but it is not what we imagine. In conclusion, it cannot be the case that budgetary reasons - the 2 billion additional contributions by the government as the largest employer - are decisive for the introduction of this nftk. There are no substantive grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u150	Do I hear you say: unfortunately, it is an improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u151	I said that the adjustment of the UFR.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In that sense, I have referred to the adjustment as an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u152	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u153	No, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u154	Oh, then I misheard you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u155	Unfortunately, the total of the story remains negative. That's the context. I repeat: it cannot be the case that budgetary reasons determine the introduction of this nftk. There are no substantive grounds. In addition, the political company under this coalition should never become a higher form of technocracy. It is not the politically relevant issues of the organization of society in ideological terms that are at the centre, but the instrumental perseverance of an unprecedented stroke of the welfare state. This is now the case with our precious pension system. It is clear that the PVV Group will not agree to a legislative proposal which has a disastrous effect on the purchasing power of all, I repeat, all participants, retired or still in the build-up phase as an active participant. That fact can already be classified as a historical error. How does the Secretary of State intend to give the millions of people who have been affected an insight into the results of this new ftk? I cannot imagine all these millions standing aside applauding when she leaves.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u156	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State and her support team, of which we have seen a huge amount of work over the last few weeks, months in fact, and an unlimited willingness to support us. Thank you very much for that. It was a difficult law. We have been very critical of this since the first moment. We have been able to do an extensive study, partly thanks to the efforts of my colleague Liesbeth Kneppers. We have received a great deal of information from that. That multitude of information has helped us to think, think, form an opinion, change our opinion and come to a conclusion tonight. In the first period, we have expressed a number of wishes and realised that there are substantial advantages in introducing the legislative proposal. Let me mention a few: no abrupt discount, no strong fluctuations, a clear spread over several years, spread over time and stable premiums. These are the benefits of introduction that we have seen. With regard to the wishes we have expressed, we can see that the UFR has been fully committed, for which we are grateful. The Secretary of State has also promised that communication will improve and that attention will be paid to this communication in the law submitted to the House of Representatives. We also note that strategic investment policy is addressed in the pension debate, and we naturally hope that it will take place successfully and soon. The headline note will be published in May. We have been promised that the new system will be applied to this, in relation to the evaluation that has been promised. The Secretary of State has promised us that information will come to both chambers in good time about the lower regulation and she made a commitment to improve communication, the relationship between generations and attention to the social game of informing and convincing each other. In Brabant we know the contented man. That is not an exuberant satisfaction, that is not a hallelujah expression, but that is an all-visiting satisfaction, the pros and cons. My group has it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u157	We're due for the Secretary of State's second term. Are you able to answer directly or would you like a short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u158	If I can respond to the motions, I'd be happy to answer them immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u159	I'm sure you can discuss the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u160	That's nice. I mean, with your permission, I won't keep a long story, even for the sake of time. A number of members of this Chamber, as in the first term, have again appealed to the cabinet in the second term, in the broad sense of the word, to stay in conclave with each other when it comes to the pension system. As far as I am concerned, this is certainly not directed at deaf ears, because I think communication is essential. That's what we're doing. The House of Representatives has a legislative proposal on the communication of pension funds. That bill will end up in this Chamber at some point. I also mention the national pension dialogue, in which everyone can blow their party along. I must say that I find that very worthwhile. In short, over and over again we are really in the process of meeting and discussing what needs to be done in the 21st century pension system. I very much agree with all the Members who have underlined this. I think Mr Thissen's appeal is very valid. Of course, that's an apple on the field, which is beautiful. I note that the Members of this Chamber have not asked me any further questions in the second term. They said it would be good to see whether motions could change the way in which we want to implement this law. Mr President, for the sake of short, I would like to comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u161	I may not have asked any questions, but I did ask one question, and that is a very important one. I asked for a commitment, and I did not include that question in a motion. That commitment would take the cold out of the air for us, namely not to introduce two parts of an article which, in our opinion, are very restrictive of indexation policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u162	That is, of course, a kind of amendment. I am truly sorry, but I cannot say yes to that, however pleased I would be if this would help the SP Group. It hurts me, but that's life. However, I would like to comment on Mr Elzinga's motion on letter K, which calls on the cabinet to base the calculation rules on the actual buffer. I must advise against this motion, because the CPB has calculated everything and the generational balance is based on the buffer, which Mr Elzinga has addressed. That buffer is 110%. I have to discourage this motion. The motion on letter L of the member Ester requests that a comprehensive and thorough investigation be carried out within three years of its entry into force. I will leave this motion to the House because I too think it is a good idea to insert the thermometer into it in three years' time. If I may interpret Mr Postema's motion on letter M in such a way that I can consider in the evaluation whether this meets the problems in a responsible way, I can leave the opinion to the Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u163	That's where the Secretary of State has to give me a little help. What exactly is she saying? Is she saying that the evaluation will examine whether the follow-up to this motion is sufficient to meet the bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u164	Yeah, that's what I said in my first term. At that time I gave Mr Postema a strong commitment to this. This can be done in two ways: through the evaluation on Mr Ester's motion and through the study on the basis of Mrs Vermeij's motion in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u165	Then I hear that we are going to do this and that we are going to look at the evaluation to see if that has been successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u166	It is the other way round, namely to consider in the evaluation whether the fact that investment policy can be considered on a one-off basis is sufficient. If that's not enough, let's do this. I gave that to Mr Postema in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u167	That's right. I appreciate the Secretary of State's gesture, but it'll take us more than three years. Given the guarantee in the motion to continue to check by the Nederlandsche Bank of course whether no gambling for resurrection is taking place, the funds and thus also the pension members and beneficiaries can be greatly pleased when the strategic investment policy can be adjusted by circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u168	I would like to inform Mr Postema that the Netherlands Bank will have completed that investigation on the basis of the Vermeij motion in six months' time. It seems to me a wise decision that we are now giving all the funds the opportunity to adjust investment policy by introducing the new ftk if this Chamber agrees. This is because the new system can then be introduced, subject to the agreement of the Court. In that case, in six months' time, we can see whether it is enough or whether there is anything else to supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u169	Mr. Postema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is quite an essential point for my group. I myself had the impression that the investigation referred to by the Secretary of State would focus in particular on interest cover. As far as we are concerned, it does not meet the objective of this motion. I'd like to know if I can interpret the Secretary of State as follows. Will the research include the degrees of freedom of funds in order to adapt the strategic investment policy if this is justified, with the guarantees of the Dutch Bank as set out in the decision? If that's the case, then I can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u171	If Mr Postema interprets it in this way, that seems to me to be a passable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u172	Then I'd like to withdraw the motion on letter M.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u173	Since the motion-Postema c.s. (' point ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u174	Then I come to the motion for a resolution on letter N by Mr Backer of the D66 Group. It calls for both chambers to be informed before adopting any policy changes to the decision that are likely to have an impact on the governance of pension funds. I have no objection to that. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. It is, of course, nice if I may interpret the motion in this way. I would like to take a look at Mr Backer's request that technical or policy adjustments should not be reported without impact on governance, but if Mr Backer had meant it, he would probably have formulated the motion differently. With this, I'm out of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u175	Mr. Kok also had a motion, didn't he? No, I didn't. Mr Beckers has not tabled any motions either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u176	Then I've come to the end of my second term. I would like to thank all the Members of the House for the fact that the debate has gone so staccato.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u177	I see Mr. Thissen's hand is still holding up, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u178	I'm just gonna wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-12.u179	Oh, you're waving at me. I guess I'll just wave back. I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill. We will handle this with the whole package of laws that will be voted on. This bill has been called for a roll-call vote. A number of motions have been tabled. I have heard Mr Elzinga say that he would like his motion to be put to the vote before the vote on the legislative proposal. I suggest we vote first on all the motions and then on the bill. We shall vote by majority on the motions, but the legislative proposal itself will be voted by roll-call. All the motions that have been tabled on the various legislative proposals are now being collected. Everyone needs a little time to read them. The package will be distributed within a few minutes. I'm suspending the sitting until 00:45. Then I hope everyone was able to read everything properly at that time.
