ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. Mrs. Van Bijsterveld has been stuck in traffic. She asked if she could speak last. I therefore give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, this debate does not have to last long. In fact, it could have been a hammer piece for the PVV group. It is a fine proposal, which can be implemented immediately. It could have been faster and more complete; I will come back to that later. But the proposal is a step in the right direction to finally address the exorbitant salaries that need to be coughed up from public funds, i.e. by the hard-working Dutchman. Unfortunately, not all parties in this house feel the same way. While everyone in the country has to tighten the belt because of the big cuts in the cabinet, the CDA, the VVD and D66 want to delay this proposal. Probably they're afraid their own people are gonna lose income. According to these parties, this debate would not have to take place until next year, with which the debate would be postponed. As we often see, it comes from delay. We should not allow this proposal to happen. It must be over with the mega-wages funded from public money. It is clear that the PVV considers that a public-paying job does not include a salary higher than the already generous ministerial salary. It simply cannot be explained and it is not necessary. If people in a top position consider a higher salary to be important and they think they are worth it, then they can simply switch to the commercial sector. That is better than complaining that a ton of money paid out of public funds would not be enough. We support the proposal that the norm should be 100% instead of 130% of a ministerial salary. However, we believe that this should apply not only to top officials, but to all employees. This cabinet doesn't want to settle that until 2017. We would therefore like to point out that we think it is a missed opportunity that it cannot be dealt with at once. So I expect us to come back to the Chamber soon to talk about top salaries, when this has been debated for years and the people in the country quite rightly simply want to end all these ridiculous salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr Van Dijk talks extensively about exorbitant salaries, but in his speech he focuses only on the public sector, under the motto that it is paid by the taxpayer. Now there's something like the private sector. I've got the figures on the private sector in my head. There are a lot more exorbitant salaries, in the terms of Mr Van Dijk. However, that is not what this legislative proposal sees at all. Does Mr Van Dijk believe that there are or are no problems in the private sector? I am very curious about that, because what we are talking about today in the context of this bill is only a very small part of the income building. In my view, the much bigger problems lie elsewhere. I am therefore very interested in his opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u4	I have limited myself to the public sector; that is what my input is about. The private sector is, as far as I am concerned, a completely different subject. I fully agree with Mr De Lange that there are very high salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u5	Madam President. The political debate on top incomes, minimum income and leveling has been going on for at least a century. For a long time, nobody's incomes stood at the top of the pyramid and tried to keep labour costs for the large numbers of low-paid people as low as possible. The harrowing differences from the nineteenth and the first half of the twentieth centuries seemed to have been overcome in the 1950s and 1960s. The number of jobs in government and for trend followers grew strongly. Income was regulated in fixed salary tables, from high to low. This worked as an example to reduce the traditional differences in private business as well. Over the last few decades, these differences have increased again. Not as strong as in America, but often partly argued with the situation there. At the same time, work was carried out to reduce the size of the public administration, privatise or distance parts of it, and also to develop a commercial vision of housing corporations, health insurance funds, hospitals and educational institutions. This changed status became the first and most visible by the growth of top salaries. The trend was: back to the nineteenth century. The twentieth-century people who had been leading for years from a community sense, ideals and sense of duty were wronged. From now on, we had to be able to buy a suitable summit with competitive salaries, which are supposed to be market-based at international level. My impression is not that these people are going to do better than their more modestly rewarded predecessors. In 2012, the cabinet formation made agreements that would lead to less government, more room for private entrepreneurs and reduction of collective spending, which would be in line with the commitment of the largest government party. It has made a concession to its coalition partner, aimed at some reduction of income disparities. Soon we saw with the income-dependent health insurance premium that parts of the VVD constituency are concerned about such intentions. Unfortunately, the party of equalization expected by the Chairman of the Labour Party did not take place. A much more modest attempt at leveling is the approach to top incomes, at least in so far as they are paid out in the collective sector. The limitation to a maximum of 130% of a ministerial salary was implemented. At that time, it was envisaged that a further reduction to 100% would not receive broad enthusiastic support in advance. Moreover, the bill allows exceptions in six articles. Anyone seeking an escape clause shall read Articles 1.9, 2.1 (4), 2.5, 3.1 (5), 7.3a (3) and 7.4 (2). My earlier questions on this matter were mentioned in the reply that they would be handled with restraint. Can the Minister confirm this again? In recent weeks, we have received requests to postpone the adoption of this bill until after a future evaluation. It was reported that this bill would conflict with general principles of good governance, property law, legal certainty and the principle of equality, and that it would distort the level playing field with functions not covered by this standard. This indignation about lowering top incomes is in stark contrast to the ease with which people in the economically weakest positions are going to lose their livelihood security and necessary facilities. Much more people than the top-income recipients now receive less home care, no place in a nursing home, less legal assistance, less provision for children who are difficult to learn, less health care, less public transport, at a higher rate, or a lower benefit due to disability or unemployment. If we use the wrong word expropriation for top incomes, the lower paid may feel at least so much expropriation. There was no respite or delay for them. The indignation from the top incomes seemed to influence the pace of handling by this Chamber. Two weeks ago, a majority signed off on this subject for a short time to decide only in 2015, which would mean that the reduction would only start a year later. That would be a disproportionate consequence of the request for more preparation time. It would have provoked great public outrage. It will be clear that the SP Group supports the government on this point. My group welcomes the fact that a majority of this Chamber last week proved to be sensitive to the serious objections to postponement, so that it now seems that we are moving towards a happy ending in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. It has become clear that the principle "the majority decides" has several interpretations, but for the VVD that interpretation is unambiguous. That is why, thanks to a new majority in committee, we are now going to deal with this proposal. We did not accept what it was like and are not going to oppose it now, but we are going to participate in protest, I must say. In fact, we believe that the care we lacked in the proposal itself is now a long way from being taken into account in the procedure for dealing with it. From the written preparation, the Minister has already concluded that the VVD has serious doubts about this proposal. However, he also noted that the VVD Group had called on him and tried to seduce him until the last minute, by asking critical questions and by asking for clarification, to convince the VVD Group. As a fraction of a party, which is part of the coalition that has included this intention to reduce the top income standard in the coalition agreement, our careful and serious consideration of proposals for which, to put it mildly, we are not very warm. Unfortunately, the further reply did not provide any innovative insights and therefore no help for my group in correcting its fundamental objections and perhaps reluctantly supporting this proposal in advance. That is why we are making another serious last attempt. After 35 years of political life, I am well aware of the fact that politics is also emotional. However, this proposal also has other social implications, as shown by the two previous ones. For or against an implicit qualification for a higher or lower position on the moral ladder seems to be. Opponents and potential proponents of the proposal are thinking twice about giving their opinion in public. Even renowned lawyers do not want to be dismissed as advocates of Maserati officials. The Dutch finger is working overtime. This gives the feeling in this dossier that the discussion about it is lost effort, in vain energy. You're either in favour or against, period. It was suggested that we should only vote on this proposal, because the situation was already clear. A substantive examination was considered superfluous in advance. The VVD Group, when announcing the Minister in 2012, stated that it was its first intervention in this Chamber in the handling of the WNT Main Act that it would re-examine a possible lowering of the standard on proportionality, legal certainty and feasibility. And yes, to call it man and horse, for the excesses in housing corporation countries, for example, my group does not have any coulance, but no, that is no reason for us to put all those hard-working and honest top officials in the public and semi-public sector on the same footing and to cut them down on average by 26% on their salary without any substantive arguments. Exceptional excesses are combated by generic measures or by good Dutch use: the good suffer the evil. Where supervision and enforcement have failed or failed, in the culture of reflex politics everyone belonging to the group, i.e. the whole group, is placed in the suspect bank. In our opinion, this proposal does not comply with the principles of proportionality, because what urgent generic problem will be solved? Both in his reply and in his further reply, the Minister failed. Asked for facts to justify the urgency and priority he lacks the connection with my group, by repeating that there is a strong public support and that it is very important for this law to be implemented without delay. In public administration, moral judgment is also a political judgment and vice versa. The Minister therefore states that political arguments have been decisive, thereby implicitly closing the substantive discussion. The Minister repeatedly reiterates the arguments already used by the government in the introduction of the WNT itself. Indeed, there is a great public support for the maximisation of salaries paid with public money. The curve from much more to a lot has to be reversed, says the VVD, especially at a time when many of the citizens are being asked. Despite the reservations expressed by my group at the end of 2012 about the impact, scope and legal consequences, we agreed with the proposal precisely on that principle. In the explanation of vote I gave on behalf of my group, I thanked the Minister for his arguments. I quote: 'After all, my group has managed to overcome the hesitation with regard to the final quality of this bill, which we shall support, albeit at the limit of admissibility'. An image has been sketched that, from a blank situation, we are finally going to restrict top salaries and that it is high time. The reality is, however, that we did this here two years ago, and it seems that there is now an urgent need to reduce the standard laid down in it already. What urgency does my group keep asking itself? According to the annual report 2013, which we just received at the drop, 95% of top salaries are now well below 130% and the remaining 5% are covered by the transitional regime. We would like an explanation from the Minister. I call it the WNT1 decision-making process, but at the end of 2012 a careful and lengthy process had been preceded; a care that my group lacks in this proposal to lower the standard. Apparently, the discussion and commitments at the time on monitoring and evaluating labour market impacts, wage building and quality were merely pastime. Even before a zero measurement was even carried out, the government considered it urgent and of great social importance that the standard reduction be introduced without delay. That is where my group is at the heart of the problem. What are the abuses that justify urgency? How many and what excesses does the Minister mean that we now have to introduce the reduction of standards without delay? We also conclude from the annual report that the administrative burden surrounding the introduction is considerable and that it requires a lot of organisations. In the short space of two years in which the WNT is now operating, two adjustments have already been necessary to this end. Does the Minister not think that the chaos and bureaucracy will only increase further through another change in the short term? Wouldn't orderable diligence increase the feasibility and therefore effectiveness? This certainly applies to the exception rule, as has already been mentioned here. The 130% ceiling, which seems to have already reached 95% within these two years, remains possible, albeit through a complex and bureaucratic centrally-driven approach, completely contrary to the general idea that responsibility should be placed where it belongs: with the organisations and the supervisory body itself. But no, the Minister of Trade is about to decide on individual salaries of top officials in independent organisations and public enterprises. I see the Minister shaking his head, but he can explain that. In addition, we have serious doubts about the impact on both the whole wage building in the public and semi-public sector as well as on the quality of top officials and thus on the direction of the government. The impact, the dampening effect on the entire wage building is evident for the VVD. We also warned against this when we discussed the WNT1 in 2012. To quote one of the sixteen leading members of my group: 'If the general is going to earn less, that goes for everyone, up to and including the soldier first class'. I don't have to tell you who that was. The effects aren't in the picture. They're looking over it. Does the Minister, however, include these effects in the negotiations on the collective agreement? These negotiations have recently been re-arrested. If so, what are the consequences for the flow? With a mortgage under water, two children studying, a live-in mother and a partner who has just been fired, I think it would be wise not to want to be too ambitious just below the top, but to sit quietly for a better salary than the boss. The government is already offering us the WNT3, which will review and adapt the entire pay structure of the public and semi-public sectors. In my group's view, the present proposal and the proposed WNT3 are inextricably linked and it would be careful to deal with them in conjunction with and decide on them. Research and understanding of possible negative effects on the labour market and quality within business organisation and, above all, in the quality of the public sector are essential. It would be appropriate for the Minister as an employer and responsible for the quality of our domestic administration to be more concerned about this. Finally, this brings me to the cumulative functioning of the initiative proposal Law on standardisation of the legal status of civil servants. Both legislative proposals serve a different purpose, the Minister says. These are conflicting, says the VVD. I would like to mention a few points. The present proposal weaves the role of employers and legislators of the government. The normalization unravels them. This proposal intervenes in the wage building and the initiative proposal advocates free wage negotiations. What would be the role and position of the Minister as an employer if normalization had been introduced earlier? Starting from our support in November 2012 to the Top Income Standards Act, in which the VVD endorses the principle that salaries paid with public money should be capped, we have virtually insurmountable objections to this legislative proposal which, above all, does not share the urgency of the matter. In 2012, after a careful process, we agreed to the ceiling of 130% of the then and also the current ministerial salary. We believe that the proposal for a further reduction is premature and careless. This lacks coherence with the impact on the whole wage building and the impact on the quality of the public and semi-public sectors. We call on the Minister to continue with this proposal and to offer it in conjunction with the proposed WNT3, after a first evaluation has been carried out in 2015 and the effects on the labour market and quality have been identified. The VVD does not share the sense of urgency with the Minister and trusts that until then government employers and supervisors will continue to exercise restraint in implementing the WNT1, as they have already done in the 2013 report. We await with great interest the Minister's response and ask in advance for a moment to be suspended after this reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important legislative proposal: the WNT WNT Wage Reduction Act. We thank the Minister and the officials for answering the questions in the two different rounds, with the last answers reaching us last week. I would also like to thank them for their availability, even today, during the Christmas holidays, to finalise the discussion of this bill. Thank you, of course, to the Members present in this Chamber. The PvdA Group supports the aim of this bill: a socially acceptable, balanced and responsible remuneration within the public and semi-public sector by binding the salary of senior officials to a ceiling related to a minister's salary. The aim of this bill is to reduce this ceiling from 130% to 100% of the ministerial salary. The reasoning is that a minister's salary will be the benchmark for the salary building of the semi-public sector. That reasoning is supported by my group. After all, taxpayers' money must be handled with care. At the same time, top officials in the public and semi-public sectors should also be able to get a decent and decent salary. And that's a minister's salary. A question which was central to the written rounds of questions, I think, has been spent enough time on this, which is why I do not share the view that there is a lack of care, because we have been able to do so very carefully, whether this reasonable salary is enough for people to pay. In other words, whether the proposed measure allows the public and semi-public sector to compete with the private sector in terms of top positions. In the reply, the Minister writes that since the introduction of the WNT1 it has occurred in a single case that someone waived the position because of the maximum salary. But at the same time, according to the government, this has not led to a suitable candidate being found. The reduction of the standard might increase the risk of this. My group therefore welcomes the option of making an exception in very specific cases by means of a tough procedure. I have the following question to the Minister. What if, in a particular sector, it would appear that, for reasons of international labour market or for other reasons, certain top positions are very difficult to fulfil and the government does not want to make a category exception? Does this mean that a particular category is de facto excluded, but not as a category but as a sum of individual cases? If such a de facto categoryl exception is found to be structural, could it eventually lead to a legal change in the future? If that is the case, what does that mean for the system of the law? My group believes that the semi-public and public sector should not, and should not, compete with the private sector in terms of the salaries of senior officials in general. Apart from a decent and decent salary, with the maximum level of a minister's salary, the public sector is attractive to well-qualified top officials who are precisely attracted to the objective of serving the public cause and the related specific way of thinking in the public sector. In the further reply, the government cites investigations by Leijsink and Steijn which show that the content of the work in government and education is by far the most important work motivation. That is a good thing. Salary is much less often referred to as the main motivation, but that does not mean that the level of salary does not matter. Workers in the public sector deserve respect and a decent salary. A ceiling for top positions in the level of a minister's salary fits well with that, by the way. The government explains in the further reply that from the point of view of a good human resources policy, there are still sufficient prospects for young talent for a career in the public sector, as there are many young people interested in working in the public and semi-public sector, as long as they can earn a decent and decent salary. What are the effects of the proposed measure on the whole wage building in this respect? The government considers these effects desirable, it writes, but it does not intend to do so by means of this bill. In other words, what impact does the government consider desirable on the whole wage building, even if they are not envisaged by this bill? My group welcomes the Minister's initiative to establish a broad administrative network in response to a commitment to the VVD and PvdA parliamentary groups in an earlier debate, in which the Brabant standard or alderman standard was discussed. Within that network, which was set up after consultation with the VNG and the IPO, there is talk of reducing top incomes at the decentralised level. According to the reply and the further reply, municipalities and provinces are looking not only for speedy clarity on this bill, but also for the reduction of the maximum salary itself. This underlines the importance of this legislative proposal. Is it not therefore obvious, I would ask the Minister, that the maximum standard of 100% of a minister's salary proposed in this proposal will also apply in a decentralised manner? Why should there be other lower maximum standards in the public and semi-public sectors in addition to this maximum standard? After all, it is a maximum standard. Municipalities and provinces can still choose to award certain top functions below the maximum. This bill is not about the scope of the WNT, but mainly about the reduction of the maximum standard. However, my group has received several signals from this legislative proposal concerning the scope, such as why members of the board of health insurance companies are not covered by the law while it is about premiums but the administration of all hospitals, including non-academic ones, that is. I assume that such questions, of which there are many more, will be taken into account in the comprehensive review of the law, which will take place before 2016. Can the Minister confirm that? Finally. Responsible handling of public funds is a great asset. The purpose of this bill is to contribute to this. In order to make the law enforceable and verifiable, timely implementation legislation is desirable. Is further implementing legislation required by this bill and, if so, is this regulation available in good time after the adoption of this bill? The members of the PvdA Group look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my fellow group member, Mr Engels, in this session in the Christmas District. I would like to say a few words about that. We shouldn't make a habit of a meeting like this. Several groups, including mine, cannot or cannot even be present. I think that's a low point. I do not need to repeat the meeting of the BZK committee, because I was not there, but I do think that the usual courtesy in this Chamber towards minorities in the Chamber that cannot attend the sitting on this evening has been ignored. I find that extremely regrettable, because the question arises as to whether this legislative proposal is so important that this emergency grip is justified. After all, what administrative, economic or social disasters are expected if this law does not enter into force on 1 January 2015? Maybe the Minister can say something about that. In the vote on the WNT1, as I call it, on 13 November 2012, my colleague Hans Engels, among other things, said: "We understood two things from the Minister last week. First of all, in connection with the new coalition agreement, he is taking a very careful and good time. I have underlined "the time" in this quote to see what a next bill might be and secondly, that he has made a very substantial commitment to my group to offer it comfort; that is the new term nowadays. On the basis of these two arguments, I have been able to convince my group to vote in favour of this bill now." The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the efforts to gain more control over the development of top incomes in the semi-public sector. Income trends in the top segment of this sector should also be transparent and moderate. In addition, remuneration in the public sector should be consistent with the importance and responsibility of posts and functions. This is linked to the fact that these rewards are paid out of collective resources. In this respect, my group's position does not differ at all from the position of the other groups I have heard so far. However, we are looking with great hesitation at the present legislative proposal. My group has noted that the proposal has been submitted without further consideration of social acceptability and administrative balance. The proposed measure is justified only by reference to the government agreement and to the decision of the Council of Ministers to definitively waive remuneration above the ministerial salary on political and psychological grounds. But what's final? Forever? Forever? Can a government that gets a mandate from the electorate for four years determine that forever and ever? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. What's going on here? In essence, a new wage standard, the frozen ministerial salary, has been introduced subjectively. In this light, however, serious questions arise to the taste of my group about consistent, sustainable and careful legislation. That has already been stated by the Council of State. Against the backdrop of the years of debate on pay in the public sector and the widely accepted studies of the Dijkstal Committee, the 25% reduction proposed so quickly, namely after one and a half years, is, in the view of my group, debatable. The question arises as to whether this does not exceed the accepted limits of care and consistency. Unfortunately, we have not received a satisfactory answer to this question. The Minister merely replied that the procedure was well followed and that everyone could have known, because a further reduction was already mentioned at the time of the WNT1 treatment. It is not without reason that I quoted Mr Engels' explanation of vote. Where is the careful preparation and justification of the current bill and how should my group indicate the comfort, as the Minister promised my group in the handling of the WNT1? Unfortunately, my group has not found anything on that. Why hasn't the Minister tried to get some insight into the effects of the WNT1 first, preferably evidence-based? Why didn't the Minister wait for the statutory evaluation after the first three years? The question is why the Minister's salary should be the maximum in the semi-public sector. I find myself always saying "semi-public sector," but that "semi" is in brackets. So when I say this, I mean the public sector. The question is not asked or answered anywhere. It is a very doubtful standard, regardless of the height or the low. Salary codes often rely on the criteria size, complexity and societal impact. Should we consider the role of ministers in this context more than that of the President of a large hospital, a university or a very large executive body, or should we weigh these functions equally heavily? Is it not an overestimate of the ministerial position, which, moreover, is not even very well respected internationally? The Minister is not sensitive to these arguments. All that matters to him is that an orderly remuneration of top officials in the (semi) public sector prevails over the individual consequences for stakeholders. Unfortunately, the answer to the question of what 'orderly' means has not made us much wiser. The objective of the cabinet in this respect serves the general interest. Period. Legal intervention in remuneration standards, including in the public sector, raises constitutional questions in the light of Article 1 of the first ECHR Protocol. In particular, this concerns the private law principles of undisturbed enjoyment of property and freedom of contact. The cabinet considers on the basis of a.) an adequate legal basis, (b) a general interest and (c) the existence of a fair balance between the public interest and individual rights that constitutes the proposed measure ECHR proof. In this context, the Cabinet stresses the broad margin of appreciation provided by this Treaty to the national legislator, and the related attitude of the European Court of Justice to condemn, as a general rule, the balancing of national law only if the national balance is lacking. On this point, the Minister may still be wrong. After all, what is missing here is the proportionality requirement, in particular as regards the remuneration of top officials in private institutions, who are also involved in this. The court of The Hague, for example, has been asked to test the WNT1 on Article 1 of the Protocol. The court considered this requirement of proportionality to be present before the Netherlands Association of Hospital Directors because the public interest prevailed in the law. However, it cannot be ruled out that a renewed objection by these top officials to this reduction will be successful. They are likely to do so because, given the lack of objective justification, it is difficult to establish the public interest. I think it is a task of the Supreme Court to ensure that the judge declares non-binding legislative proposals which she accepts. Of course, the judges are allowed to examine them, but hopefully they will accept them as we have determined them and will not declare him unbinding. We're running that risk with this bill. From various sides and also in the preliminary report, the cabinet has been warned of the undesirable effects of the proposed intervention. The most important of these are the effects on the labour market, the proper construction of the wage building and the quality of senior officials. The cabinet puts these warnings aside by saying that the current ministerial salary still provides an adequate level of remuneration, that added value can be given to public sector work and that legal exceptions remain possible. This argument, too, does not convince my group. There is a serious difference of opinion as to the recruitment power of the currently frozen ministerial salary. Allowing exceptions will lead to an undesirable dynamic. On this point, too, my group comes across the icy argument that the Minister sees this differently. In his view, the only logical starting point is the salary of ministers. Is the Minister even aware of the effects of the WNT1? Medical specialists in hospitals are no longer interested in a position on the board of directors. They've united a masse into private companies. Let me give you another example. In order for universities to compete internationally, an exception will have to be made for a professor from abroad. And those are just two examples. Does the Minister realize that? I'm asking for a response from the Minister. This law does not apply to employees in the public and semi-public sectors. For that, we have to wait for another bill. Mrs. Huijbregts called that all the WNT3. Who does the minister mean with those employees? Are those top officials competing with industry, the medical specialists and professors mentioned above? How's the Minister gonna do that? My group is very interested in this. It is also a question of the total wage structure of all the organisations involved, and that is a great deal. It can be seen from all this that my group is certainly unhappy with the legislative proposal before us. The question remains: why, and why now? The 2013 annual report, which we recently received, shows that the WNT is well respected. The salary of 95% fits within the WNT and that of 5% falls within the transitional right. The Minister himself says that the annual report is not suitable for an evaluation. I ask the Minister again: why, then, why this bill now? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. With this proposal, the cabinet seems to have been caught by a super average political zeal and strength. We note serious shortcomings in the justification and remain concerned about possible unintended side effects. I have not been able to find an objective and rational answer to the key question, which is what problem this measure is for. As always, however, we await the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group today. Both members of that group are unable to take part in this informed debate in connection with stays abroad. Both the GroenLinks Group and the Christian Union Group agree that remuneration in the public and semi-public sector should be limited to the highest public function, namely that of the minister. The Minister must be at the top of the salary building in the public and semi-public sector. The proposal to standardize remuneration in this sector at 100% of a ministerial salary is therefore supported by both groups. Although it is less beautiful from the point of view of careful legislation that the standardisation is substantially adjusted two years after the introduction of the WNT, the principle underpinning the chosen standard and the broad transitional regime make the entry into force of the law as of 1 January 2015 both desirable and justified in the opinion of our political groups. I will keep my contribution to the debate brief and confine myself to a few comments and questions. The original opinion of the Dijkstal Commission, on which the standard of income in the public sector is based on the minister's salary, included, in addition to this standard, the recommendation to increase the ministerial salaries considerably, since they had gone out of line with the salary in the market sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u10	I would like to return to a previous sentence by Mrs De Boer. I heard her say that she thinks the bill is desirable and justified. I have said in my speech that I am extremely curious to see how the judge, asked to do so, will judge this law. Could Mrs De Boer perhaps respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u11	I don't know how the judge will judge it. However, I look forward to it with confidence, because I think it is up to the legislator to apply that standard. I do not think that the norm at 100% of the ministerial salary is such that a judge will say that this cannot be considered in line with the general interest. When you talk about individual matters, Article 1 of the ECHR, of course, is mainly concerned with the reduction of real promised incomes, the transitional period seems to me to be so broad that it is also acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u12	I would like to return to the concept of general interest. In the judgment I quoted, the court gave great value to that concept of general interest, because there was legislation and because it served a legitimate purpose. But now, after a year and a half, that same general interest can probably be explained in a different direction, because there is no relationship between the legislative proposal at that time and now. I'd like to have another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u13	My expectation is that there is, because I think that the starting point, namely the ministerial salary as a benchmark, is sufficient. But we will have to see; I agree with Mrs Scholten. I referred to the opinion of the Dijkstal Committee, which also recommended a substantial increase in ministerial salaries. This was abandoned at the time in view of the financial crisis. In response to the written questions of the Christian Union Group, the Minister has now said that the government is not seeking to substantially increase ministerial salaries in the future under better economic conditions, as recommended by the Dijkstal Committee. Does this mean that the government does not or no longer agree with the conclusion of the Dijkstal Committee that remuneration in the public sector, including ministerial salaries, falls too far short of remuneration in the market? Can the Minister explain that changed understanding? Does the Minister intend to look at the level of ministerial salaries and remuneration in the public sector as a whole when assessing and monitoring the WNT? A second point. In the WNT only the incomes of top officials are limited and not that of all employees. Our groups think this is a missed opportunity. They do not understand why it has not been decided from the outset to set a standard for all salaries in the public sector. After all, the principle that the ministerial salary is the benchmark applies to everyone working in the public sector and not just to the so-called top officials. With an arrangement which applies to everyone, there would also be no need to limit between what is and is not a top function, which would, in our view, make the implementation of the scheme much easier. Can the Minister explain why it has not yet been decided to standardize all incomes? What particular labour market or competitive positions justify excluding them? In the answers to the written questions, the Minister says that the effect of the law would then be too great. Can he explain and justify this? Isn't it true that the top officials generally have the highest salary? Are there many non-top officials in the semi-public sector who have a salary of more than €178,000? Which sectors and professions are we talking about in particular? Will the salaries of non-top officials also be included in the monitoring? Does the Minister think that the high incomes of these other employees should also be standardised and, if so, what exactly is this standarding going to look like? Then a few words about the possibility of making exceptions to the ceiling. Although this is a difficult procedure with, as we have understood, an individual assessment of the cabinet, we fear that making the functional exceptions will undermine the system of standards. The Cabinet may make exceptions for certain functions if special labour market conditions so request. Read: if it can be made plausible that these functions cannot otherwise be fulfilled at the desired level in the specific case. This concrete assessment will always be made at a certain time. It is not said that when the job is re-released, labour market conditions are unchanged and the job will again not be able to be fulfilled at a salary level of up to 100%. Can the Minister explain how this functional exception is intended? Is it an exception for a particular function at that time or does it continue to be subject to an allowed exception for the function in question, even if it is again vacant and needs to be occupied? If the latter is the case, how does the cabinet guarantee the link to labour market conditions and how does it prevent the list of excluded functions from continuing to grow indefinitely? I assume the Minister would consider that an undesirable situation. I'm rounding up. With the standard of 100% of the ministerial salary and the limitation of bonuses and redundancy payments, the norm is that we do not want excessive remuneration in the semi-public sector. Does the Minister agree that the most important steps have been taken at a later stage with the adoption of this law and the transfer of staff, and that we can now give 100% of the ministerial salary rest and security to those concerned? We look forward to the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. Now that we can see that all the other one- and two-man groups have been killed on the chopping block of the procedure, I feel a bit like the last of the Mohicans. The good news is that the spokesperson of my group is fortunately available, so he is speaking now. The bill we are discussing tonight was not much to welcome at the Council of State. This is understandable if we realise that the WNT was only introduced on 1 January 2013, the consequences of which are unclear to date. Nor is there any justification for the legislative proposal before us, except for the government's firm conviction that the law is important and will be effective. Had certainty but real value, because a more shaky basis is hardly conceivable. Nevertheless, the government is preparing for a long forced march through treacherous quicksand. Why? In the Netherlands, the political fascination with income distribution is high. It is not important that the distribution of income in our country is very uniform according to all the indicators. The Sundes Volksempfinden is of the opinion that lower wages and higher incomes should be reduced. In any case, such a view has all the advantages of simplicity. If the alleged inequality, and in the same breath, can hardly be found in the distribution of income, then fortunately there is still the distribution of wealth. In the Netherlands Thomas Piketty came as well. Not that he had done research into the Dutch situation, but it certainly helped to stimulate a very old discussion again. Indeed, the distribution of wealth in the Netherlands is more unequal than the distribution of income, but pension and property play a key role in that determination. Despite this fascination in the Netherlands, what is surprisingly largely lacking is a rational basis for the existence and justification of income differences. Do income differences have an incentive effect on individuals and are they therefore of economic importance? If not, why not? If so, to what extent does the degree to which differences occur play a role? On the basis of this type of data, it would help to develop an income vision followed by a rational income policy. Moreover, such a policy should not be limited to the public or semi-public sector, but should also involve the private sector. None of that! "Up with low wages, down with high wages" remains the motto. For some years now, at the top of the payroll, a minister's salary has been regarded as the measure of all things. The reasoning behind this is completely unclear. For many years the Dijkstal Committee has looked into the problem and found that, in order to keep the wage building in line with social reality, the ministerial salary had to be substantially increased. In 2009 and 2012, with a reference to the crisis and undoubtedly fear of negative responses to the population, a significant increase in salaries for ministers was not implemented. It is clear that the norm that defines the top of the wage building has been created as a result of rather loose coincidences. A view on desirable rewards in the public and semi-public sectors cannot be seen. This makes any opinion on this, whether it comes from the government or from elsewhere, in fact a blow in the air. It also gets rid of much of the rhetoric that the government is doing in defence of this bill. During my speech, of course, I can see some lightning in the plenary. Has the Independent Senate Group suddenly become an advocate of higher incomes? No, she's not. As always, my group is trying to see something of rationality in legislative proposals and, if necessary, to ask for them. Whether or not the current casual ministerial salary is high enough and whether or not it sets the standard that other officials should or should not be subject to is a matter on many sides. The government is not even close to a well-founded discussion. That's my problem. A sad illustration of this lack of justification is that the WNT annual reporting by the government is mainly seen as a zero measurement. Mind you, a zero reading afterwards. How do you make it up! Unfortunately, it has to be noted that this proposal is not evidence-based but illusion-driven. And immediately following that, the question arises as to whether this bill is not a populist attempt by this coalition to feed the insatiable monster of envy on irrational grounds. I would like to see the Minister shed his light on that. Because the differences within the public and semi-public sector can be enormous on the one hand and the private sector on the other, it is extremely artificial to ignore the private sector. It is a well-known physical principle that gradients with certainty lead to flow. In addition, the larger the gradient, the stronger the current. The Minister will confirm that as a natural scientist. The government has no information on the possible outflow towards private sector. However, we are sure that this trend will only be strengthened by the legislative proposal. It should also be feared that suitable young people entering the labour market will lose attraction for the public sector. And if it weren't for the final level of income, then there is still the hard to digest fact that your salary is a random playball of vindictive politics over and over again. Then a few words about the jargon used. It is not right for this government to use the "top" predicate, from top officials to top sectors, top policies, top scientists and top executives. Word inflation has become the norm. Even as a criminal, you can't look yourself in the eye if you're not a top criminal. My group would be pleased if such bloated use of words could be reduced to normal proportions. Maybe that's what I'm hoping for. Although no investigation has been carried out into the consequences of the bill, there is no need to be a psychic to predict a number of cases with reasonable certainty. Firstly, the wage building is compressed at the top, which significantly reduces the available remuneration space. How can wage differentiation still be achieved on the higher floors of the wage building? What is the economic added value to be expected from any promotion? A beautiful feeling alone may not provide sufficient encouragement. Secondly, because of the long transitional period, which is not unreasonable in itself, there are in practice long-term different rewards for the same work. It is unlikely that this will contribute to satisfaction and harmony in the workplace. Thirdly, the legislative proposal is full of exceptions. It is a simple but not less worrying fact of experience that the possibility of an exception always leads to attempts to extend the scope of a scheme. This goes hand in hand with problems and always leads to conflict. When is it so difficult to fill a vacancy against the required salary that a higher remuneration should be chosen? In practice, this will create a large grey area in which the number of rare species will undoubtedly explode. That's nice for biodiversity, but it's the axe at the root of this crumbling bill. Fourthly, it is particularly disturbing that the normalization of the remuneration of internal supervisors should once again be considerably increased without any research. The growing expectations and responsibilities of these supervisors would justify this intervention. My group is also very surprised by the ECB's opinion that the independence of national central banks should be guaranteed and that the proposed rules should only apply to future cases. Can the Minister explain the causal link on the basis of which the use of the word "so" is justified? Are we not once again dealing with a lobby from the financial sector, which knows above all what is good for the financial sector? Fifth, in the written preparation, questions were asked about the relationship of the proposed intervention with Article 1 of the First Protocol to the ECHR, including in relation to the reduction of pension claims. As has become clear in recent pension debates, the EU Charter is likely to provide an even stronger guarantee of property rights than the ECHR. Did the Minister test the bill against this charter? If so, what is the outcome? Sixthly, against the adoption of legislation with retroactive effect and against a government which takes an advance on an orderly treatment in the First Chamber, my group has major objections. Let me finish my first term. The legislative proposal comes shortly after a major intervention in the wage formation of a small category of staff has already taken place, without any analysis of its consequences. There's no lack of opinion, all the more facts. The government likes to talk about excesses in remuneration policy and exorbitantly high fees in short-term interim job performance. If proper research shows that these concerns are justified, then the current legislative proposal is a very complicated way of getting to grips with these problems. Then there are simpler methods conceivable with less red tape, which are much more effective. Decimer than simply the budget that a public or semi-public organisation may spend on this kind of function-fulfilling. To sum up, my group has great reservations about this unsubstantiated and therefore hasty legislative proposal, which also covers only a minor part of the income problem. The debate on income and wealth inequality will certainly not be silenced by this law. That's a good thing. Nevertheless, I look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u15	I was standing by for a while because I thought the end of the story was there, but it took a while. Mr De Lange is using very big words. "Gesundes Volksempfinden" I have heard, as well as "rancunous politics." That then refers to the advocates of this law. He makes a big plea for doing rational politics. I know that he is at the top of his group, just to stay in top terms. I would like to ask him whether he also thinks that, in addition to rationality, normative policy can be pursued. This law does nothing but set a standard; it lowers it, but it sets it. In politics, setting a standard is really part of democratic politics. That can't be dismissed as sundes Volksempfinden or vindictive politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u16	I thank Mr Koole for his question. Of course, he's touching a dilemma. To some extent, normative policy has a role to play, but without any justification is, in my view, of a very dubious nature. We should always start with a rational analysis of what's going on. If we are to propose certain measures, we must have an idea of the consequences they will have, including the effects which may initially remain out of the picture and which may be extremely unfavourable. In this proposal it is not very difficult to expect with a high degree of probability effects that are extremely undesirable. Before we get to normative politics, it is very wise to first create the rational picture of a proposal. If we have then looked at the rational picture and all the aspects that go with it, we can see whether the standards we are aiming at are realistic. If it is missing, and we set standards without them being in line with the sense of reality, normative politics will fall into the trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u17	Fortunately, Mr De Lange acknowledges that standards play a role in politics. He only puts rationality first and then looks at whether it can still be applied in a normative way. Of course, you can do it the other way around: you have a strong political conviction, and so you come to a certain standard. Of course, you have to consider how to perform it as rationally as possible. I am convinced that there is such rationality under this bill. But it is true that a standard is being set, and that is also allowed in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u18	That wasn't a question. That was a creed. That's okay, of course. I think that is perhaps a creed of faith from me, which gains normative politics in persuasion and value if there is a rational basis for it. If that rational basis is not present enough, any attempt at normative policy is doomed to find a very difficult solution; let me put it so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. On 6 November 2012, the plenary debate on the proposal for the WNT took place in the First Chamber. The CDA Group then pointed out that the presentation of that bill was a new step in a social and political debate that has been going on for many years, namely on the remuneration structure of top officials in the public and semi-public sector. At that time, my group made it clear that it considers it important that remuneration policy in these sectors is balanced, socially responsible and not exorbitant. That was also the position of the then outgoing government. For regulation, my group said, different forms are conceivable: self-regulation, whether or not combined with disclosure regimes, sectoral legislation, a generic approach, legal maximisation, or a combination of all these forms. In the WNT the choice was made for the latter, a combination model. My group was in agreement with that. It also pointed out that it was positive that the earlier discussions and initiatives contributed to a socially responsible policy advocated by the CDA. Since the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2013, we have moved on. To be precise, there's a court ruling. It dismisses a claim from the NVZD, the Association of Directors of Care, for the exclusion of the WNT's maximum remuneration standard from healthcare institutions. In addition, there is the Adaptation Act WNT in which some important corrections have been made to the bill, partly on the initiative of the CDA Group. There is also the WNT Repair Act, which has been established mainly in order to ensure proper implementation. And now there is already a whole new bill ahead, a proposal of law to lower the WNT's remuneration ceilings, called the WNT2 in the corridors, with a planned date of entry into force of 1 January 2015, very soon. We therefore have some comments and questions, and they are of a different nature. It's a complex matter. The history of the WNT and the need for two further laws in the intervening period also show this. That is why the CDA Group also questions the opportunity to come forward with the proposed amendments. In my group's opinion, it is really preferable to wait for the results of that promised evaluation for the first two years of the operation of the law before any proposals to reduce the current standard of the WNT. Have the critical comments that have been made on this proposal not yet convinced the government? In the previous treatment, the government indicated that it was not expected that the current proposed reduction in standards would lead to an increase in evasion, abuse and misuse. Does that mean that the government has specific information on the functioning of the current law? I would like to hear an explanation of that. According to the judgment cited above, the transitional period of the WNT was reasonable. The government has introduced a similar regime for those covered by the new proposal for this proposal. Can the government explain exactly what the transitional period is like for those who are covered by both the previous and the current proposal? In particular, my group is interested in the government's view of how this will work in the light of Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR. We ask the government to come up with a detailed analysis on this point. Next item. In the further preliminary report, the CDA Group suggested that, should this legislative proposal be adopted, workers who would be covered by the remuneration standard of the current law and, where appropriate, by the new standard would take the transitional regime into a new position. This can, after all, promote labour mobility. Why is the government not in favour of this? Finally. The government is "soothing" the functioning of the proposed regime by stating that a much larger number of exceptions are to be expected, but what does that say about the effectiveness of the proposal? More specifically, is some of this proposal still significant in proportion to the exceptions that apply to others? What numbers would be involved in both cases? With interest we look forward to answering our questions and the Minister's response to our comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u21	I call the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u22	Madam President. I thank the Chamber for being prepared to deal with this law at this extraordinary time, namely in the recess. No matter whether you are in favour of the introduction; if the law is passed, it is extremely enjoyable, useful and necessary that introduction can take place by January. It is good that this option is not excluded by the order of the sitting. Thank you for that. With regard to time, I'm going to make a brief introduction. Then I would like to say something about the procedure following a question from Mrs Huijbregts, among others. Then I try to convince those who have doubts about why the law and why it is now. Next, I would like to say something about the right of transition in response to a question by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Mr Koole also said something about this. Then I'll go into the exceptions. Mr Meijer and others have asked questions about this. Then I will deal with the scope of the law and the question of whether it should or can be extended. I am doing this in conjunction with another proposal which, as we know, is still in the pipeline. This is indeed referred to as WNT3 and concerns an extension of the scope of the law. Finally, I will pass on the remaining questions in the order of the speakers. To put the proposal in context, I would like to give a brief introduction. In the 1980s, new public management was discussed internationally. This brought with it the autonomy of government organizations. Part of it was privatisation. It was also about scaling up and steering on output, including in sectors where output cannot be measured by a ruler, such as education and care. The aim was to provide incentives for those who achieved better output. As a consequence, and as a logical part of it, the "market-compliant" payments of managers in those sectors were made. I do not want to say that everything about new public management is not good, but we are looking at different aspects of it, such as the unlimited increase in scale. Also about privatising as an end in itself is now thought more nuanced than then. It is now mainly about the reward. The market-based payment took certain forms. Someone who was director of the municipal water management company or of housing association Ons Gezigen, suddenly became CEO of a multinational company and there was always a consultancy firm willing to calculate the market-based salary. People who came from a regular administrative scale saw amounts of two, three, four and sometimes five tons when their salary came in. I have to say that many of the people who have worked for these high amounts in the past and who may still be working for some of them have done nothing inaudible. They've accepted a job for the salary before. They do very good work for the public good. They might have been able to earn even more in the private sector. I'm a long way from judging the people assigned to that higher salary. I note, however, that many years ago the debate started on whether this was the intention. This led to the opinion of the Dijkstal Committee ten years ago. That advice was that it was reasonable to use the Minister's salary as a standard for the highest salary in the public and semi-public sector. It is also related to the Prime Minister's salary. It is well known that there is no pay difference between the functions of Minister and Prime Minister. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs get a few hundred euros extra a month because they have more representative obligations. So there is a link to the ministerial salary. At that time it was indeed the opinion that the ministerial salary should go up by 30%. In this light, it has not been illogical to link the standard for the public sector to the ministerial salary plus 30%. I was allowed to defend that law in one of my first days as Minister of the Interior here in the Chamber. Hence, as of 1 January 2013, 130% of the ministerial salary is the standard for appointment in the public and semi-public sector. Even then, the cabinet's intention not to increase the ministerial salary was discussed here in the Chamber. That was also the result of the coalition agreement, so it was known to everyone. I am also saying this in response to a question from Mrs De Boer. The government has no intention of increasing the ministerial salary. It is therefore logical that the intention to reduce from 130% of the current ministerial salary to 100% of the maximum wage in the public and semi-public sectors should be taken into account. In this context, the proposal is now before us. This makes the ceiling for remuneration in the public and semi-public sectors €178,000. This includes expenses and the employer's contribution to the pension. At the moment, as long as this law has not yet entered into force, that is €230,000. So it goes down about 50,000 euros. In doing so, the public sector shows that there is a degree of austerity. "Soberness" is perhaps even a big word, because of course €178,000 is still a very generous remuneration. I'm getting the motivation why that should happen right now. However, I would like to stress that the standard we are now introducing will have an effect in practice. I took the numbers. In the Empire sector, 28% of top officials are currently engaged on a salary higher than the ministerial salary, with an excuse for the word. 28% is quite a lot. In the HBO sector, 58% of directors are above the ministerial salary. That shows that if you don't set a standard, the salary will crawl up pretty fast. So this is over the full width of the HBO settings. In the media, 55% of the 49 directors of broadcasters are above the ministerial salary. Those are indeed sectors where if the Chamber adopts this law, there will indeed have to be a lower salary if there is a vacancy by January, i.e. one and a half weeks from now. In the case of youth services, 45% of managers are above ministers' salaries. That was a brief introduction to the proposal and its underlying history. I did not intend to speak about the procedure, but Mrs Huijbregts asked a number of questions about it. I would like to do justice to her questions about this and also to her criticism of it. The intention was, of course, well known, even when we discussed the WNT here two years ago. The draft legislative proposal before us was first submitted to the Labour Foundation and the Public Personnel Policy Council and then offered for consultation to a large number of social interest groups. Then there was an Internet consultation, to which, as you know, many have responded. A lot of letters have come. As part of the parliamentary process, the House of Representatives held a hearing, where many have spoken. There has also been a lot of attention to it. By the way, the House of Representatives accepted the proposal, otherwise I would not be standing here. There was quite broad support in the House of Representatives. There have been two written rounds during the procedure here in the First Chamber, which is not the case with every law. I believe that we have followed the right procedure here. The intention in the government agreement was indeed to do two things: to reduce the ceiling from 130% of the ministerial salary to 100% and to extend its application, not only to top officials, but to all officials. I said at an early stage that I find that last part more complex and I would therefore like to deal with it in two steps. I have discussed this in such a way in the Lower House, which was in agreement with that procedural proposal on the whole. That is why this law is now before us and that next spring I will come forward with an exploration of the implications of extending the scope of the law. The government has handled it very carefully. For many, especially for those who have hesitation, the key question is why and why now. I would like to mention a few arguments as to why I think it is important that it should be done now. I would also like to briefly discuss a few arguments that might argue that we should not do so and try to convince the Chamber that, considering everything, it is okay to adopt this law. For me, it is by far the most important argument that we do not delay the acceptance of what we do and the acceptance of the government when it comes to top salaries in the government. We ask many of the people and civil society organisations for the reforms implemented by the Cabinet with the support of the Chambers. Where it can reasonably be done, we should not drag on, but continue to do so. This is only the first part of what the cabinet intended to do by way of government agreement. I know the relationship and for the First Chamber it is not in itself important what the Second Chamber has agreed to in the coalition agreement and where the government has signed, but to know where the cabinet is, it is useful to know. Indeed, there is a second part of the plan from the coalition agreement, which is considerably more complex. Again, it was cut in half with the support of the House of Representatives. For those who would be interested in what was agreed in the coalition agreement, it might be useful to point out that a financial return has been deducted from the reduction of top incomes per 2016. In order to achieve that yield by 2016, you will of course have to start with fewer appointments in top positions in 2015. I read it in such a way that the drafters of the coalition agreement also intended not to wait until the end of this period of government to introduce it. Again, I realize that this will not in itself be a decisive argument for the First Chamber. I would like to give two more arguments as to why it is appropriate to introduce the law now. Firstly, I do not want to prolong the transitional period unnecessarily. Every year the postponement of the law also extends the transitional period. Secondly, I want to avoid anticipating behaviour. Once it is clear that this law will come with broad support in the House of Representatives, but it will only be introduced next year, you will get a window of a year in which organisations and people who want to work there know that they can, so to speak, earn €50,000 more a year if they start working there now and that they can stay on it for another four years as part of the transitional period. For that reason, too, I would like to see the bullet go through the church now and not just from January 2016. I come to the arguments that have been put forward why we should perhaps wait. The first one doesn't make any sense. The Top Income Standards Act is evaluated after three years. That is at the end of next year, and why not wait for it? I expect that we will be able to see a lot of the implementation of the law in that evaluation. We have had to repair the piecework law and clarify implementing rules, particularly with regard to what is and what is not covered by it. For the accountants it is then well practicable. However, I do not expect very large effects on government and semi-government, because most people in these positions are in the transitional period of four years. So that doesn't change that much. So I do not expect any great new insights in the evaluation. As far as effects are concerned, we will see them in the first two years: new jobs are indeed subject to the lower ceiling of 130% and the vacancies are all fulfilled. Nor has there been any use of the exception procedure provided for in the law, whereby the Council of Ministers may make an exception on the proposal of the Minister of Trade and the Minister of the Interior. So it doesn't seem to be an urgent problem. A common argument is that you get less good people for a lower salary. The scientist in me has quite a few methodological questions. What would that be? If you were to measure already what after six or seven years of age, you would have to wait for so long, after all, what the hell are you going to measure? An important point is also an exception, introduced by the Cabinet as a letter of amendment in the House of Representatives. I refer to Article 2.5. In fact, that provision entails a permanent evaluation. After all, it says: if it appears for a particular position and organisation that the labour market conditions are such that it is obvious that you cannot find a suitable staff member, the Council of Ministers may decide, even before it is recruited, to include the vacancy in advance under a higher ceiling. Where evaluative elements should play a role, the current law already makes this possible. All in all, it would be my preference to introduce it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u23	Despite the fact that the Minister puts forward all kinds of arguments as to why he does not consider an evaluation necessary, I would like to go back to the question of why he promised an evaluation at all when he examined the WNT1. I think this is an expression of carelessness. This shows a careless and inconsistent government offering an evaluation, but a year and a half later says: that evaluation is not necessary, because we already know what is coming out; see these three or four arguments. Can the Minister respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u24	What I am trying to say is that the evaluation can cover far more aspects than just the height of the ceiling. In the evaluation we see that now, in the interim, questions are already being addressed if what exactly is covered? Can't you give a gratuity to someone who's been in service for 25 years? Suppose you get an iPhone from your boss, do you have to count it under the cost of work or not? All such implementation aspects also play a role. I don't want to exaggerate, but we've wasted quite a lot of time implementing the law effectively. After all, it's a new law. I think it's very good to evaluate this law. If the evaluation reveals that very bad things are happening, at any point, then it is of course fully evaluated. But I have no reason to expect no good people to be found, a point that concerns Mrs Scholten.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u25	I'm not worried about finding good people. That's not what I'm talking about. I understand that, although the Minister has promised an evaluation, he does not think it is necessary at the end of the day, because he already knows what is coming out of it. My question is: why then does the Minister say an evaluation or, more importantly, does it record it in the law, and then say: I have nothing to gain from it, because I already know what comes out of it? I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u26	I will say it once more, although I thought I had already said: there is much to evaluate. How does the law work out? How clear is he? What's in it? What income aspects are covered? As with any law, you have to evaluate how it fails in practice. That seems to me to be a regular part of introducing a law: assessing how a law is going to work in practice. We're gonna do the same, to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u27	I don't think the Minister convinced me. It is precisely on the basis of the arguments put forward by the Minister that an evaluation is important, in three years' time, when WNT1 is in operation for three years. This concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u28	I regret that I have not convinced Mrs Scholten, Mr President. I come to the issue of transitional rights, on which Mrs Van Bijsterveld had two questions. The CDA makes an interesting suggestion that I've also considered. It results from the following observation. The right of ownership means that the legislator cannot unilaterally reduce a salary from one day to the next. The case-law points out that this must first of all be a legal basis. Then someone must be able to sit on the existing salary for another four years. Afterwards, according to the law, it must be reduced to the lower legal standard for three years. That may mean that here and there I also have the impression that it is happening that officials remain at the place where they are sitting. They will then be able to remain on the higher salary for another two years for four years. If they could have a similar position elsewhere in the public sector, they would immediately reach the lower ceiling. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asks why we link the period of internship to the position instead of to the person. You've got, like, a ticket of "you're a transition person" that lets you go somewhere else. I've been thinking about that, but I don't think this is a good idea after all. Firstly, apply to the same job vacancy people who could reach different salary ceilings. Secondly, it perpetuates that all those who are now above the norm remain above that for the whole of the period of implementation. I see a lot in practice now; I am setting an example. Someone is the director of a small care facility and sits at two and a half tons, which really does occur, or higher. If he would now go to a new, larger and perhaps more interesting care institution, he is currently falling back to €230,000. But I see a lot of people doing that. They say: well, I am going a little backwards, but from the content of my profession I see it as progress, so I wish to do so anyway. You'd lose that if you chose the other variant. I'd say that's a shame. Considering everything, I think it is an interesting suggestion, which has been made earlier by the CDA. We have also thought about it in the cabinet, but we do not want to prefer it. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked how the Transitional Law works for people who are already covered by the current Transitional Law. I will tell you exactly; it is indeed a good question. What if someone makes three grand? The new level under the current law is €230,000. People can stay on that old level for four years, of which two are now over. Those people are entitled to that old level for two years now. In three years they will go to the standard of the first WNT, so €230,000. If this law is passed, they will go in two steps of 130% of a minister's salary to 100% of a minister's salary in the next two years. They're keeping the full rehab period they have under the current law. Then it goes down in two steps to the level of the current law. The second subject on which many questions have been asked is that of the exceptions. There are, to be precise, two articles in the law: Articles 2.4 and 2.5. Article 2.4 was already there. It states that the Council of Ministers may, on a proposal from the Minister of Trade and the Minister of the Interior, decide to make an exception for a particular person who would be eligible for a particular position and to reward those who would be higher. There is no limit to that in principle. Again, this derogation has not yet been used in practice, but it is. Subsequently, a letter of amendment to Article 2.5 was added to the examination of this law in the Lower House by the Cabinet. This means that the Minister of State and the Minister of the Interior can propose to the Council of Ministers for a certain position at a certain institution in advance, i.e. before recruitment takes place, to make an exception which would allow recruitment to take place as it would now be, i.e. 130% of the ministerial salary. Mrs Scholten also said that the Minister of Trade can do this alone, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u29	I have a question about Article 2.4 which is already in the old law. I was talking about a university that wants to compete internationally and attract foreign professors. Article 2.4 is used in individual cases, I understand. Can a university in such a case ask the Minister to make an exception for such a person?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u30	Not for two reasons. First of all, a professor is not a director. He would then have to be assigned to an administrative function, otherwise he would not fall within the scope of the law. Secondly, a university cannot ask for permission from the Council of Ministers on its own. It must always be the trade minister of OCW who turns to the Minister of BZK, after which they jointly turn to the Council of Ministers with a proposal to make an exception if such a person were to become a director. That's the current law, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u31	So the Minister of State for the Interior could apply to the Minister of State for this, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u32	That's the first half of my answer. The second half is that both should then turn to the Council of Ministers. He should share that. That is the procedure in which it is carefully considered, also so that exceptions are not made in one sector rather than in the other. In this way, about the same standards can be established. Mr Meijer asked whether the exception would be used with restraint. The answer is yes. In practice, the current exception clause did not appear to be necessary for the first two years at all. Resisting, yes, but there will certainly be an exception. There are now 1,120 officials and directors above the standard that follows from the new law. For most functions it will not be a problem to recruit people under the new ceiling, but sometimes there will be a function where the ceiling is displayed. Mr Koole asked whether it would be a category exception, if it was always in the same sector. I would like to limit it to individual exceptions. That is also what is proposed in the law. You can see at once whether, given the specific market conditions, it is really necessary for a particular function at a given setting to raise the ceiling. That is the intention of the law. Mrs De Boer asked whether this would in future be linked to the position in question. The answer is no. It applies at a certain point in time to the fulfilment of a certain vacancy at the institution. After all, Mrs De Boer is right: labour market conditions can be very different five years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u33	I just want to get back to the question I asked about the de facto categoryl exception. I imagine an academic hospital might say through this proposal that it cannot find a good chairman of the board. I'm not sure it's going to happen and I don't see the reason myself, but I hear these sounds. For this reason, the Minister of Trade and the Minister of the Interior may decide to go through the process in order to arrive at an exception. However, there are not so many academic hospitals. If it's hard for one hospital to find someone, isn't it also the case for another academic hospital? If so, you have a de facto category exception. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u34	I get the question. I think this is indeed a difficult category, but for this category too, people have been appointed over the last two years who have had a ministerial salary or a comparable income. This has also happened recently. They are excellent people whose institutions were satisfied. There too, I would not say in advance that it is impossible to fill the vacancies with the very best people.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u35	My information is that in two of the eight academic hospitals it has been impossible for a long time to find successors for the officials who have left. So there is definitely a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u36	If the new law is in force, the Minister of Trade has the clause to refer the matter to the Council of Ministers through me. That is exactly what the clause is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u37	I thank the Minister for explaining the exceptions. Article 2.4 gives the possibility to make an exception for a person who is already in a position or is planning to perform a function. Article 2.5 is in favour of making an exception for a function at the time it is opened up. Can the Minister indicate whether the Council of Ministers intends, at least at the outset, to be reluctant to create exceptions, particularly for exceptions under Article 2.5? Will there be conditions to see if the function can actually be fulfilled? Is the condition that the vacancy is opened first and is then considered whether the exception should be made, or can the institution immediately state that it expects that the vacancy cannot be filled? How's that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u38	I think that the exception clause should be used with caution. I am not saying that the job must always be opened up first and that it must be sought in vain for a year. If there are good arguments to argue that the specific labour market situation is such that a vacancy cannot be filled, perhaps one can refer to precedents................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For the sake of clarity, I would add that the two Articles 2.5 and 2.4 can also be stacked. Under 2.5, 130% of the ministerial salary can be recruited, which is the current practice, but then it could happen that someone is applying for an even higher salary. I'm not saying I'm pleading for that or that I'd be happy about that, but the law doesn't rule it out. That remains possible, as in the current law. In my view, I have answered the questions on the exception clause. I go on to the questions about the scope of the law. Mr Koole said that we have heard that this law now concerns the collective and semi-collective sector. To be quite precise: for the WNT, the semi-collective sector is what is designated by the WNT as a semi-collective sector. There is an exhaustive list of what is included. For example, health insurers are not covered by the statutory remuneration ceiling. I believe that this was discussed at the time, but they were expressly not included. Mr Koole says that he gets sounds from people who say: shouldn't you be recording that? He asks: could you not bring that up again in the evaluation or in the law already identified by me as WNT3, which extends the scope? We have to be very precise about that. We have already discussed it in the House of Representatives, so I would like to say the same thing here as I said there. The evaluation is about the functioning of this law. Everyone can, of course, raise the issue in the course of this evaluation, but the cabinet will then evaluate the functioning of the current law. The extension resulting from the government agreement is about the ceiling that is now set not only for directors but also for all officials. Strictly speaking, however, there is no intention to extend it to other sectors. So that is not a firm intention of the cabinet. If Mr Koole asks whether, in the context of extending the scope of the Top Income Standards Act, it is of course up to the Court to take a stand on this. At present, the cabinet has no intention of extending that scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u39	The Minister says: there is no intention to extend the scope. However, my question referred to the evaluation, namely whether the scope is taken into account in the evaluation. If you do that, then of course there can also be discussions about institutions that are not yet covered and that should perhaps be included. If the Minister now says that the scope itself is not under discussion and that the scope is not being evaluated but the operation is being evaluated, I note that. My question is whether it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u40	Well, that's the plan. Perhaps I can respond to Mr Koole in the following sentence. It may appear from the functioning of the law that there are border effects which in themselves give rise to questions as to whether that border is in good shape. I'll just say that if you move that line, you're gonna have another discussion over and over again. I do hear noises now from people who say: in the case of healthcare providers, the drivers are covered by the new standard, but not the health insurers, so you should include them. Then you will have another discussion, because then the health insurance companies will be covered but the insurance companies will not. Such a discussion will continue. But to return to the question: we have no intention of questioning the scope as such, but if the assessment of the law leads to problems, we can of course discuss them in both chambers. Mrs De Boer and Mrs Scholten asked about the intention to apply the law not only to top executives but to everyone who works there. Mrs Scholten asked: who are "the employees"? This indeed refers to anyone who works at that public or semi-public institution. The current law confines itself to the two upper layers: the top drivers and the layer directly below them. The intention in the coalition agreement is to extend that to everyone who works there. That's not an easy thing to do. That is also what I am saying in response to Mrs De Boer's questions. She asked: what are the consequences and why is it complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u41	Maybe the Minister agrees with me, but if you want the Top Income Standards Act to apply to all employees who work there, you have to remember that the whole system is of great importance for the overall wage building. Can the Minister explain why he is now giving top officials a new standard and wants to look at the whole wage building again later? I think that everything is very much related to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u42	I explained this in my introduction. I deliberately proposed in the House of Representatives that these two parts should be dealt with separately, precisely because lowering the ceiling from 130% ministerial salary to 100% ministerial salary is strictly a relatively simple procedure. Extending the scope to all officials has many feet in the earth. Let me give you two examples. As president of a university, you cannot employ an e.g. The president of a university is a natural person, his salary is public and the norm is known. If the legislator decides that this is to be done in future for a minister's salary, unless there is an exception, then that is in principle clear. For many other functions, however, you can hire. Then I mean not so much that you can hire a staff member, but that you can have the work done by, for example, another company. Of course, this applies to the media to a large extent. With a president of a network, it's clear. That's a certain person. If a standard is set, that is the standard. However, you can use a production company to create programs. I want to prevent all kinds of evasive behaviour, first of all setting a firm standard for all employees, but then, in practice, it does not matter because everyone is going to offer the services in a different way. There really is still a lot to be done for the trade ministers in the various areas before you can extend the scope of the Top Income Standards Act, which now applies only to directors, to all officials. That's why I've started a reconnaissance. That reconnaissance is coming to the Chambers in the first half of next year. We can discuss it then. That's the first step. Then the complications that Mrs De Boer has asked for can also be fully addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u43	The Minister gives an example that seems reasonable. I gave the example of the general and the soldier first class. That is, of course, the actual situation when this standard reduction is introduced. This was already the case with the WNT1, but the effects are all the greater with the lowering of the standard. Is the Minister going to go into that, or does he think this is going to be okay? In anticipation of the WNT3, the situation remains of course that the top is pressed and the rest actually rises because they can earn more than the top official himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u44	That is a real point. You can expect two effects, namely that the subtop goes up or that the top and some moderating effect comes from it. Honestly, I'm expecting that last one. I spoke to a woman who was director of a small care facility in Zeeland not so long ago. She talked about her managers, not the low below her, but the managers in the organisation: that's also something nice; I'm going to make €230,000 and earn my managers more than I do. Then I thought: why should managers in the third layer of a small healthcare institution make more than €230,000? I don't get it either. If it's a depressing effect, I don't think it's that crazy, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u45	You take an extreme example in this case. I understand that, but the principle is that it has a dampening effect on the whole government wage building and, of course, on individual business organisations. This will be best achieved by a responsible driver when it comes to new functions. However, I have said that this will result in little mobility, because if you are comfortable, you will remain comfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u46	I hope for the support of the VVD when we propose to bring the whole organisation under the scope of the WNT. I'm saying this isn't a simple operation. That is why I will first carry out a reconnaissance before we come up with such a proposal. But there are indeed sounds from drivers who say: if you do this, do me a favor and take on the whole device as soon as possible. To those who are critical, I would like to say that we need to take a closer look at how this works in all these sectors, so that we do not organize perverse effects. My colleague Mr Schippers of Health is trying to employ as many people as possible. If you chase them all away to other organizations, you put the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u47	The Minister expresses exactly the VVD's plea. See it in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u48	I also hope that the VVD will support this proposal when it comes to the table. However, I have argued why I think it is good to take a very close look at this before steps are taken. I believe that I have answered the questions on the scope as well. I'll go on to the remaining questions. I try to answer them in the order of the speakers. Mr Van Dijk asks what it means for all employees. I answered that. I have also replied to Mr Meijer and Mrs Huijbregts, also on the point that it is not the Minister of Trade, but the Minister of the Interior and ultimately the Council of Ministers. I do not see any contradiction with the draft initiative on the standardisation of the dismissal rights of civil servants. I think that these two can exist side by side and that the initiative can come to the table here if it passes through the House of Representatives. I have replied to Mr Koole on the issue of scope, and I have indicated the dampening effect. It has been asked whether, if the standard goes from 130% to 100% of the ministerial salary, the need for a decentralised standard will decrease. My observation is that this is the case. In the case of municipalities, I have seen that they consider the standard of ministerial salaries to be too high. The senior official earns an alderman's salary and has been asked whether you should not introduce an alderman's standard. That discussion is well known. I note that if we go from 130% to 100% of the ministerial salary, many municipalities can live by the standard and that the desire to introduce their own local standard falls away from a number of municipalities. I cannot speak on behalf of all the municipalities, but my impression is that municipalities are happy with lowering the ceiling and that at least the larger municipalities do not need to set their own standards. Mr Koole asked for implementation. He'll be here in a week and a half. If the law is passed tonight and in two weeks' time a new director is sought for a university or a healthcare institution or a new DG or a new SG, they will be covered by the standard of €178,000. That can be done so easily. Mrs Scholten asks why there is a link with the ministerial salary. I refer back to the ten-year debate which led to the opinion of the Dijkstal Committee and the whole reasoning behind it. Unless you ask, I don't want to discuss that again. The simple thought behind that is that in the public sector a ministerial salary is the norm of what is earned there to the maximum. Where directors of health care institutions belong to the Minister of VWS or housing corporations under the Minister for Housing and National Service, it is reasonable that the ceiling there is linked to the maximum salary of that minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u49	I have another question with the Minister's answer. He says that the standard of ministerial salaries is so important because, for example, care institutions belong to the minister. That's not right. The health care institutions are their own private institutions covered by the WNT by Annex 2 of the WNT. They do not belong to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u50	The Dijkstal Committee has done its utmost to ensure that this is done. You can look at the legal position, you can look at the funding and you can look at the social position. All three criteria play a role in assessing whether or not something falls within the scope of the WNT. Mrs Scholten is right that care institutions are strictly independent in their legal position. However, for their funding, they are covered by a system in which politics and therefore the minister play a major role. I refer to a debate that took place here last week on this subject. This shows that politics plays an important steering role in the area of funding in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u51	The Minister talks about the opinions of the Dijkstal Committee, but I feel that he is shopping a little selective. On the one hand, the Minister welcomes the statement that the ministerial salary would be the top of the wage building. On the other hand, I do not hear him say anything about the fact that the Dijkstal Committee had very concrete ideas about raising salaries and that up to two times that increase has not been achieved. In what rational way has the ministerial salary that we currently have and which the Minister is currently seeking to raise to a standard been achieved? There are questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u52	Sure, those questions were also asked by Mrs De Boer. I had just arrived at the answer when I was interrupted. I said that the link between the standard and the ministerial salary was the result of the opinion of the Dijkstal Committee. But indeed, it has since been decided not to increase that ministerial salary by 30%, unlike Dijkstal at the time. I said that in my introduction. Mrs. De Boer asked why that didn't happen. It was a firm intention of the cabinet. It was also included in the coalition agreement and there was broad support for the coalition agreement in the House of Representatives. I do not think that anyone has made a comment. Considering all this, I think that ten years ago there was a change of opinion on public sector salaries in general. The scope of the Top Income Standards Act ten years ago was also much more limited than the treatment has gradually become. At that time, for example, the housing corporations were not yet included. They are gradually included in the treatment. In any case, I think that is perfectly normal. You can already see that the views on this matter have shifted somewhat. If you look at the intensity of work and look at what people with similar backgrounds in business would earn, you can undoubtedly argue why you should increase that ministerial salary. But yes, on the other hand, you serve the public cause and that brings with it some things. Short and well, we really have no intention of increasing that ministerial salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u53	Is it not simply the conclusion that the opinions of the Dijkstal Committee are outdated by the realities of today and that there is very little point in referring to those opinions of the Dijkstal Committee? That seems to me to be the only normal conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u54	No. I referred to the link between the highest salaries in the public sector and the salarying of a minister. A question was asked about that. This link arises from the opinion of the Dijkstal Committee. Indeed, ten years later, we no longer intend to increase that ministerial salary by 30%. Moreover, I do not know many political parties that advocate it here. However, it seems that Mr De Lange's party does.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u55	I do not want to argue in any way. There's going to be an evaluation, there's going to be an impact assessment. My question is whether the norm at 100% is now rock and roll hard. If it can be concluded from the evaluation that the remuneration in the public sector lags too much behind the remuneration in the private sector and that this leads to problems, should it be concluded that the whole building is being increased, so that the link between the ministerial salary and the standard is maintained? Mr De Graaf says: then the Minister's salary goes up. I don't want to anticipate that. Again, I do not argue that it should go up. But thinking from the structure of the law should that be the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u56	As far as the cabinet is concerned, these two are one-to-one linked if this law is passed. I would also like to answer another part of Mrs De Boer's question. In fact, she asked whether there is any peace now. I said that question as: is it done with this? Of course, you could also say that we are now going to set the standard at 90% of the ministerial salary. We have absolutely no intention of doing so. If there is now a one-to-one link with a certain logic, saying that ministers set the standard for maximum pay in the public sector, then I think that discussion should also be ended. That is why I am referring to the discussion already started ten years ago under Dijkstal and the opinion of ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u57	If I hate one thing, it's to get things in the mouth that I never said. I have in no way advocated an increase or a reduction in the ministerial salary. What we are trying to do here is to find out through an intellectual discussion what the basis for this bill is. I think that's rather sad so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u58	Okay, thanks for the correction. Mrs Scholten, Mr De Lange and others spoke about the ECHR. It was also suggested by Mr De Lange that there would be retroactive effect. That's not true. This law has no retroactive effect. That is all the more reason for me to think it is important that this law should now be dealt with and, hopefully, passed by the Chamber. After all, that law will apply from 1 January. As far as the ECHR is concerned, as I said in my introduction, it stems from human rights, the right to property, including the right to conclude a contract with its consequences. This means that the government cannot stop it unilaterally from one moment to the next. For that, the case law is that you have to keep people's expectations for at least four years as they were. Then you have to reduce it, if necessary step by step, to the maximum set by the legislator. That's what we do. In reply to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question, I said in detail what the route for that is; we are sticking to that. I am therefore confident that it is ECHR proof. I have already replied to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question in my introduction. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u59	We have arrived at the second term, but the spokesperson of the VVD has asked for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u60	We have arrived at the second term of office. Mr Van Dijk has waived his second term, so I give the floor to Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. Interesting tonight is the armored position of the largest government party. I understand that the VVD would like to see an evaluation of the previous restriction measure, WNT1, and further plans for a future WNT3. If this group votes in favour, it will do so with the greatest possible reluctance. It has already achieved that visibility. My compliments on that. I wonder whether the VVD Group, encouraged by the recent example of its coalition partner Labour Party, is considering voting against or at least voting against. Last week's split vote led to a near-crisis and even the idea that a reluctant First Chamber could possibly be bypassed. I ask the Minister whether any vote against the VVD against a part of the coalition agreement concluded with the Dutch Parliamentary Group will at least lead to further consultation within the cabinet. I return to two comments from the VVD that show the difference with what I am advocating here. The first relates to the care of treatment. That care always has the full attention of me and the entire SP Group. When, at the end of November and early December, I called for an early conclusion, I suggested how this care could be included in the timetable. The reason for this was that it was undesirable that the payment of too high top salaries would last longer than is strictly necessary. If we're gonna stop this leak, we're gonna have to shut down the tap. The second point I would like to make by the spokeswoman of the VVD is that this measure must make the good suffer for the evil. In those evils she rightly refers to people who come into the news by the combination of extremely sloppy or even disastrous behavior and a remarkably high reward, referred to as excesses. That's a limited concept of excesses. The height of some rewards themselves can also be seen as an excess, not only for the evil ones, but also for the good ones. The adoption of this bill combats these two types of excesses simultaneously. I am curious to see how broad these excesses will eventually be worn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister on behalf of my group for his reply, but let me say that he has not convinced us. The VVD also attaches great importance to public support, but even that does not relieve us of the duty to carefully weigh up the substance of usefulness, necessity and consequences. The Minister's haste with this proposal, in which he is apparently supported by the majority of this Chamber, is not supported by the VVD. Especially his answers to the questions "why?" And "why now?" We weren't enough. My group has considered stepping over these objections now and trusting that the WNT3 will answer our questions. The result of that review is negative. We believe that this law is not an intermediate step, but part of a total redeployment of the wage building in the public and semi-public sector. We do not need coherence. The immediate introduction of a far-reaching reduction in standards cannot remain without consequences for the whole wage structure. The only possibility for my group to discuss further the proposed reduction of standards is when this is shown to be consistent in the WNT, and when the effects on the labour market, employment and the quality of public services and service are found to be negligible. That is why we have to share the conclusion that we do not agree with the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u63	Madam President. I thank the Minister for answering our first-term questions. I believe that we have already been convinced on a number of points and have become even more convinced of the usefulness of this legislative proposal as a result of the response. That certainly concerns the issue of care. I do not think you can reasonably say that this bill would not have been carefully prepared, that it would not have been carefully thought about and that this chamber treatment would not have been careful. I think it was very careful. An evaluation is certainly very necessary, but this is mainly about the implementation issues of the WNT1. This legislative proposal is mainly about a different standard, a reduction in the standard, and that is not what this evaluation is primarily about. So I also agree with the government that you don't have to wait for that. I welcome the answers on the exceptions and also on the de facto categoryal exceptions that may arise. I understand from that that they are really very reluctantly applied and will never lead to category group-wide exceptions. Why now? There is a great deal of demand for government measures at the moment, and the Minister has also said so about people in the country. When you see this bill, where there is a demand in the public sector, which is charged to the taxpayer, to people in the top positions, I think that this is certainly not too early to ask and that it is only reasonable. It's also people who do anything for the public good. I think that this debate has also shown that working for the public is more than just earning a high salary, but you are also convinced that you want to serve that public cause from the bottom of your heart. There's a decent salary there. The Minister's maximum standard is quite a salary, and I am glad that we discussed it today. Comments have been made, including by Mr Meijer of the SP, on what the VVD is doing now and references have been made to last week's discussion. I note that the VVD does not follow the agreement made in the coalition agreement. I would like to give each group its own consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering my questions in detail. I would like to point out that my group has no opinion on whether or not a minister's salary is a good standard. However, my group has an opinion on the fact that a new bill is now being dealt with in this Chamber, while a legislative proposal was put to the vote one and a half years ago which has not yet led to an evaluation. I am particularly disappointed by the Minister's answers to the question as to why he is not waiting for this evaluation. I think the answer is that the evaluation is not awaited because the results are already known, in fact contrary to a principle of proper legislation. My group is particularly keen on this. Furthermore, my group is very concerned about the feasibility of the Minister's plans for WNT3, also because the Minister himself said that there is still a need for more detailed investigation. I would like to call on the political groups in this Chamber to hold the vote on this law until we know more about WNT3 and we can assess the overall package, preferably even after the evaluation of WNT1. Given the contribution of the political groups to the first and second periods so far, this is probably a vain appeal. I suggest to the Minister that I consider it risky to give examples of small health care institutions with rather high salaries above the current WNT standard. This may well be the case, but I would like to point out to the Minister that according to his own decision of 26 November 2013, all healthcare institutions are divided into pay classes, depending on knowledge intensity, risk of business operations, media exposure and size. All healthcare institutions are classified on this basis and have WNT standards that are much lower than the current WNT standard of €230,000. That is something that is very closely monitored in the healthcare sector and that is what the salary is adjusted to. The accountants are watching that incredibly well. I'd like to give that to the Minister as my own evaluation. That is why I look forward with great confidence to the judgment that will undoubtedly be delivered. The public interest is reflected in this. I have tried to name this term in my first term. The general interest has long been laid down in the pay classes. I'll just give it to the minister. I look forward to the judge's ruling, like I said. I also look forward to the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I do not rule out the possibility, under Articles 2.4 and 2.5, of the Council of Ministers having to deal every Friday with requests from trade union ministers to allow exceptions. I do not think that this is a good development for the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I would also like to know whether the Ministers are looking at this individually. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that I will advise my group to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply, although I cannot say that the answer was very satisfactory as far as I am concerned. This could not reasonably be expected either, because my main criticism was that this law and the considerations that led to it had not been sufficiently investigated. In the half hour suspension was obviously not time for that investigation. I am not surprised, but I am disappointed at the fact that such a law reaches this Chamber at all. Finally, let me say that when ideology prevails, the facts deviate. My group will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u66	The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is able to respond directly. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u67	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber kept the second term short. I will try to do the same. First of all, I would like to thank those who have brought their support to the proposal in the first or second term when it comes to the vote. Thank you for that. I understand from Mrs Scholten that D66 is not convinced. That is consistent in itself, because D66 was also opposed to the proposal in the Lower House. It mentions procedural arguments, but it is ultimately also a political weighting and a political judgment. That was clear to me before. I am sorry that I have not been able to convince the VVD group. Mrs Huijbregts says that it is careless of the Minister that the intentions of the coalition agreement have been cut in half. I would like to emphasise that it was a decision taken by the cabinet, with broad support in the House of Representatives. In a debate in the House of Representatives, I specifically suggested that this intention should be cut in half from the coalition agreement. There was no objection to that proposal. I respect the political weighting of the VVD Group, but I would like to distance myself from the suggestion that the course of events here has not been careful. Should the 50PLUS group, which did not vote here, vote as it did in the House of Representatives, then the fact that Mr Nagel came to the Chamber would not only create an absolute majority but also an absolute majority in the Chamber. I would appreciate that, because then it has nothing to do with the recess. It is then clear that the House may be waiting for it to support the proposal. This is an important moment, because a new standard has been introduced for the maximum you can earn in the public and semi-public sectors. The standard of €178,000 is €50,000 lower than the current standard. I think that is an extremely decent remuneration. We will certainly be able to find people who, for reasons of content and for reasons of their involvement in the public cause, are prepared to do that work and who, moreover, are paid very decently for it. I await the mood with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u68	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I suggest we vote directly on this bill.
