ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u1	Today we are talking about the first term of office. I welcome Mr Schouw in Box K. I would also like to welcome Mrs Voortman, who, for maternity leave, will not be in trade union K but has taken part in the President's Lodge. In this way she can listen to the contributions of the members. Mr Van der Steenhoven, Mr Van der Loop, Mr Carsten Zwaaneveld and, of course, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations as advisers to the Chamber are also present in trade union K.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. The government has nothing, certainly no information. All the information the government uses is owned by the citizens of our country. They often have to show why the government has to give their information. That's the upside-down world. Citizens should always be able to obtain all information from the government, except if that would be to the detriment of those same citizens in relation to national security, national interests or the privacy of people. A parliamentary debate cannot be without a public debate. Openness feeds that debate and allows ideas to be exchanged and problems addressed. This makes our society a political community, in which citizens have not only the right but also the duty to control power. Today we are not discussing a small proposal. It is about an important pillar of our democracy: the controllability of power. So it wasn't typed up on a Sunday afternoon. We very much appreciate the authors and we thank them. We have also noticed that the proposers are now separated from the table and bed, but that is why our thanks are no less great. Mr Schouw is very chic in trade union K, but Mrs Voortman is still very chic in the President's lodge. The starting point must be that information is always public in principle, unless there are good reasons for confidentiality, in the interests of citizens. This bill offers that kind of openness. The possibilities of requesting information are being extended. It also ensures that information is actively made public by public authorities. The idea of a register in which citizens can find all the documents appeals to us. This not only means that governments can be better controlled, but also that in fewer cases a procedure is initiated. This has advantages for the citizens who request this information and for the government itself, who spend less time and money on all kinds of procedures. In addition to information from all kinds of public authorities, information from semi-public institutions should be as public as possible. They are also financed entirely or to a large extent by public funds. We are pleased that semi-public institutions are also brought under this law through a General Measure of Governance. Previously, the proposers chose to bring semi-public institutions directly under the law. After consulting the Council of State, they opted for an AMvB. Why the choice? Why are they abandoning this principled position now? Can they explain why the adoption of the law is now a step too far? They consider that semi-public institutions through the AMvB should be brought fully under this law. In our view, it is important to know how, for example, a hospital has made the decision to pay a profit or why it has closed down an obstetric ward. Do the proposers share our view that the arguments of drinking water companies and network operators not to be covered by this law are not very credible? The drinking water companies are shielding with the safety of drinking water. Do the proposers find this credible or is this simply under the relative ground for refusal of the prevention of sabotage? It was chosen to extend the law to the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the IPO and the Union of Water Councils. That's good. There important decisions are taken and municipal and provincial policies are being prepared. It is important to know how these decisions are made. It's up to all of us. The applicants choose to make the assessment of relative exceptions more difficult. There must be serious damage, for example for relations with other countries, for the economic or financial interests of the State or for inspection, control or supervision. Can the applicants comment on the question of the existence of serious injury? Where exactly is the border? What's the difference from the old situation? Can they make this concrete on the basis of a number of examples? What requests are not accepted in the old situation and this bill does? We support the choice to make business and manufacturing data instead of an absolute relative exception. However, economic interests continue to weigh heavily. Can the proposers make it clear to us, using a number of examples, in which cases the public interest goes beyond the economic interest? Why did the proposers choose to place the security of persons on the relative grounds of exception? The security of individuals also comes under the absolute exception of state security. When does the security of persons fall under the relative exception of security of persons and when is the absolute exception of state security? More and more people call on the personal policy concept not to make documents public. In our view, this is not a good development. Of course, civil servants must be able to exchange views freely and a minister or alderman always remains responsible, but I do not think that it has been the intention to extend this protection in such a way that it can be misused in order to omit relevant data. It is therefore a good thing that the proposers also clarify this point. Sometimes it may be very important that all the facts that have played a role in making a decision, including alternative options, for which I did not choose, or the risks that might arise from a decision. The proposed register is, I think, a good way to open up. It gives citizens the opportunity to look more specifically. It now appears that there are often too few documents available for WOB requests. After an objection, it appears that a second search often reveals more documents. It is difficult to assess whether this happens consciously or not. A register makes it easier for anyone who has made a WOB request, at least to assess for themselves whether a government leaves out documents. We still have some doubts about the establishment of an information commissioner. For the moment, we fear that a body which will have little added value in practice will be rigged. The Information Commissioner must contribute to cultural change. Do the initiators share our suspicion that an important part of the problems of the current WED, namely that governments sometimes refuse to respond to requests, are being removed with active disclosure and the opening of a register? Will this bill not itself play an important role in this important cultural change? People who abuse the right to public access undermine that public access. An anti-abuse clause is therefore necessary, for example, for the situation where it is quite clear that a request should have no other purpose than to frustrate or obtain purely financial benefit. Let me give you the example of the meanwhile famous man from Dordrecht who costs the municipality EUR 0.5 million a year. Two-and-a-half officials each year are dealing with all of this man's letters and requests. Dordrecht will cut 4 million euros this year. An eighth of it is due to this gentleman. I am not even talking about the periodic penalty payments that this gentleman can cash. That's obvious abuse. I ask the author: is it possible with this abuse clause to put this man's letters aside? We believe that the proposers have found a good balance. Therefore, a penalty payment is no longer necessary and we support the proposal to exempt this law from the Penalty and Appeals Act in case of failure to decide in time. At the same time, the decision-making period will be reduced, which will increase the current value for journalists, for example, and the information requested will actually be up-to-date. Once again, thank you very much for your work. The SP is very positive about this law. We hope that the proposers will be able to answer the questions we have and take away the concerns that live with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u3	Mr. Chairman. A well-functioning democratic rule of law requires openness of administration. The power must be controlled. For this, it is necessary to understand what the board does. We can therefore be happy in the Netherlands with one of the oldest laws, if not the oldest law, for public administration, although this law dates back to 1980. This does not mean that we should not be constantly alert or that improvements are possible. After all, we must prevent the law of the brake from being applied here. The proposers apparently consider that the public administration in our country is so poor that the amendment of the current Public Administration Act is insufficient and that it should be replaced by a completely new law, the Open Government Act. Active disclosure, preferably in a uniform manner and using ICT, requires a lot of wishful thinking from the proposers, in the light of the experience with ICT and government, as was also recent in the Elias report. In addition, the enormous increase in the number of institutions that would be covered by the law could lead, according to a very large number of these institutions, to unworkable situations and to the imposition of unnecessary bureaucracy. Furthermore, the introduction of information directors in countries referred to by the initiators, such as the United Kingdom, is not an undivided success. Apart from these points, in the opinion of the VVD Group, the authors ignore the fact that openness of administration is primarily a matter of mentality. I am the last one to deny that the government can deal better and more actively with requests for information and that it can do more in part. However, the VVD Group is not convinced that this will be resolved by a new law. After all, if a new law is implemented by public institutions with the same lack of enthusiasm and cooperation as is sometimes the case at present and if the same slow reaction is taken, then the result is the same and we are not getting anywhere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u4	But how are we supposed to do that? Mr Taverne has identified a problem. He says a culture change is necessary. This law isn't for him, but what is?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u5	I will come back to that, but I can take an advance on that. This can be done, for example, as previously happened with the Public Administration Act, by revising and modernising the law. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this might solve a very large part of the problems, but I would like to know more about this proposal first of all from the authors themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u6	I assume that we will have an amendment to that effect or that Mr Taverne will clarify that point, otherwise the idea of this law being nothing will remain a bit clinging to the idea that it is nothing and that it must be resolved by another law. In that case, however, we also need to know how this is done with the other law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u7	I had only begun my run-up to a whole series of questions I have about the proposal before me. I would therefore find it premature or inappropriate to ask the applicants first. Then we as a group can form a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u8	The judgment has already been given. That's fine. You can, because it's a free country. It's a public meeting. Public information is exchanged and you can say what you think of a law, but then as the largest group in Parliament you must also tell us how to do better. We are dealing with a circular reasoning when the answer is: we are going to ask the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u9	I do not entirely agree with Mr Van Raak. The VVD Group is not convinced of the need for a new law to resolve the problems identified with regard to public administration. It is important, I think, that I should be able to ask these questions on behalf of the VVD Group, because then we will know even better how the judgment will be delivered. Another important point addressed by the proposers is to end the abuse of public administration. As is well known, there are individuals and businesses who have made the collection of periodic penalty payments in WOB procedures their earning model. The VVD is known as an entrepreneurial party, but it is less enthusiastic about this form of enterprise. That is why, last year, Mr Fokke and I tabled a motion in the BZK budget calling on the Minister to end this abuse. To be honest, I expect to see the Minister's proposal before the end of the year. I would like to know from the Minister when exactly that will be sent to the Chamber. This is without prejudice to the fact that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats still has a number of questions on the proposal before us. Let's start with business and manufacturing data, with article 5.1 of the bill. It still makes these data relative. It will not be surprising that VNO-NCW has repeatedly expressed its deep concern about this, as this is hitting entrepreneurs hard. If their data can be wobbled, there is a good chance that business will decide no longer to share data with the government. Do the proposers consider this desirable? To what extent can this damage the economic development of the Netherlands? The scope of the proposal for the Open Government Act has changed with the latest letter of amendment. Now institutions entrusted with a public service are included. I ask the proposers, what institutions will and will not be covered by the law? If this is still the case with General Measure of Governance, does the Minister decide whether a body is covered? This leads to confusion. Can the initiators remove this uncertainty by indicating, at least globally, which institutions they believe should be covered by the new law? Apparently, private institutions with a public role should also be covered by the new law. This is a major violation of the autonomy of private institutions. In the opinion of the VVD Group, for example, the fact that private institutions receive subsidies for the exercise of public tasks does not justify the serious infringement of the autonomy of private institutions. The Council of State therefore calls this a fundamental breach of the existing relationship between the public and private sectors. Why do the initiators consider this breach necessary? Do the proposers consider it important that officials feel free to express all views in the preliminary stages of decision-making? And, if so, to what extent could civil servants be hampered by the proposed new Open Government Act? To what extent can this also affect the quality of decision-making? The VVD Group asked in writing whether the proposers were prepared to submit the bill to Actal. The applicants replied that they did not understand how the proposal could lead to an increase in the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. Fortunately, Actal himself climbed into the pen last week and sent a letter to the Chamber warning about the impact of the proposal on the regulatory burden on governments and companies. How do the applicants assess the warnings contained in this letter? The proposers introduce an information commissioner who should be assigned to the National Ombudsman. They argue that the powers of the Information Commissioner are formally addressed to the public sector, but the scope of the WED is extended to institutions with a public task. How does the position of the Information Commissioner relate to the constitutional position of the Ombudsman, as laid down in Article 78a of the Constitution? The Court of Auditors, in Mr Vendrik's person, has also sent a letter stating that the proposal is notable under state law and in practice leads to undesirable effects. Can the initiators respond to the letter from the General Court? During the round table on the proposal organised by the Chamber, most participants, including VNO-NCW, SMEs Netherlands, VNG, IPO and so on, found problems with the current WOB. At the same time, many of the participants found that a completely new law does not seem to be the most appropriate means of solving these problems. It is always to be commended when fellow chamber members, especially when they are members of the opposition, use their right of initiative and submit their own legislative proposals. I would also like to congratulate colleagues Schouw and Voortman on this. I look forward to their answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u10	I see that Mr Sjoerdsma has another question. So you can stand still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u11	I have another question because I thought that Mr Van Raak, who unfortunately has now left the Chamber, had an interesting point. Mr Taverne started by saying that there were indeed issues to be noted on the current WOB regime. It had to be "more, better and more active," I quote. Those were, I think, his criteria for assessing this bill. Can he tell me how this bill scores on each of his criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u12	Yes, I certainly can, because I do not deny that the proposal before us also changes some of the points I have mentioned. I must first hear the answers from the proposers, but the legislative proposal, also in its various forms, which is before us after a number of changes, seems to miss its purpose here and there. However, I do not want to anticipate this further. There are a number of bottlenecks that are now widely recognised, for example the long deadlines that are often used, which you can easily think about. However, this does not necessarily have to be done with a new law. This is also possible with a revision of the current law. Again, that wouldn't be so weird. This law dates back to 1980 and was last revised in 2004. I wonder if this isn't too much of a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u13	That genuine doubt does appeal to me in itself, as does the openness with which the VVD Group assesses this bill and its need for more information. This does raise a question for me. Mr Taverne spoke of a change in attitudes and a change in culture. If I understand the authors correctly, that is exactly what they are trying to do. I'm also looking at Mrs. Voortman in the lodge. According to Mr Taverne, is it enough to rewrite an old law? Could it not be precisely a new framework that brings with it a new impetus, that new mentality?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u14	I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's thought. As I pointed out in my speech, having studied the bill well, I am not convinced, however, that I can always be persuaded, but I do not want to be unclear that the proposal will lead to this change of mentality. Why? Because it is my firm belief that a change of mind does not necessarily bring about a new law. I have already said that if a new law is applied with the same restraint and with as little enthusiasm as it is now, you will not get along with it as much. When I look back at the development of the proposal before us, where in the beginning an information commissioner in the form of a High College of State was proposed, with the ultimate main reason being a change of attitude, I do not know whether it is entirely proportionate and whether it is not a bit too much of a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u15	Shortly, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u16	However, I would like to draw Mr Taverne's magical formula for that change of mentality. Then he undoubtedly has an alternative, a better idea than what is now in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u17	Without proposing any kind of modernisation of the WOB, I can imagine all kinds of changes in the application of the WOB without, for example, requiring legislative changes. In ministries, consideration can be given to how to ensure that these organisations have a better understanding of how information requests should be dealt with. It is not necessary to react to this immediately with pinched buttocks in the sense of "that's scary." You don't need a new law for that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u18	Mr. Chairman. I will do my part on behalf of GroenLinks today. So I am speaking not only from here, but also from the chairman's lodge to a more limited extent. An open government is not a favor, but a right of every citizen living in a democratic country. That is why the D66 Group welcomes this initiative law, a law that makes the provision of information from government to people more democratic and modern. The Biesheuvel Committee already called for an open government, after which the Public Administration Act was adopted in 1980. But were the lessons of that time really learned? Yeah, the WOB did its job, but he's in need of a replacement now. Several colleagues have already referred to it: it is time for a cultural change that gives hands and feet to the active provision of public sector information, a law that fits the 21st century, with a mindset in which openness is not a burden on governance, but a lust. Imagine that your municipality decides to start a new project near you, a project with potentially a lot of nuisance for the residents. Don't you want to know on what grounds the municipality has decided to implement this new project? Do you not want to know whether your interests and those of other residents have been included in the plans, whether enough research has been done on the project and what the risks are? Of course. Unfortunately, if you want insight and information, you often have to fight hard, sometimes even too hard, to get that information. The WOB is too often used by the government as a weapon against the citizen, whereas it should be self-evident to disclose this information. This is beneficial in many respects. By informing the electorate, votes can be cast more carefully by organising counter-power. People can think along and share information. This brings new insights and ideas. It can even help to create support. I believe that drivers can only be satisfied with that. Then there are the economic, cultural and scientific benefits. They would achieve this law, because the government carries out a lot of research and has a lot of data. Open this data to cultural and social researchers and innovative companies, and let them build on it. The current public access law is weak and outdated. It's time for consolidation and renewal. The Open Government Act wants to take care of that cover. The right of access to public information is explicitly enshrined in the law. Not only administrative bodies but also other public bodies, such as the Council of State, come within the scope of the public access regime. The decision-making period on requests is halved to two weeks and an information commissioner will monitor compliance with the law. These are just a few examples, attempts to make it more difficult for administrative bodies to refuse or circumvent citizens' requests. I ask the initiators if this is enough for a change of heart. If that is not the case, do we not have a problem if we abolish the penalty payment? Does the abolition of the penalty payment not work properly against the ultimate objective of the open government? Furthermore, it goes without saying, of course, that colleagues have already mentioned that not all information can be shared by the public authorities: transparency but not naivety. We must continue to balance the importance of openness and the interests of not revealing information. Security considerations, for example, are an important reason not to share information. The protection of the competitive position of companies and their manufacturing secrecy are the same. D66 believes, however, that exceptions should be avoided as an excuse not to have to provide information on errors and the like. The exceptions against the disclosure of the information are sometimes piled up in the hands of the WOB without thought. And as every warehouse worker knows, there are accidents. The public authorities will no longer be able to rely on the rest as an obstacle to appeal and appeal. It's either a specific soil or the rest of the soil. This is a positive development with regard to the D66 and GroenLinks groups. The use of an exception is then better argued and interested parties are not made unnecessarily difficult to obtain public sector information. So you find the right balance between the democratic right to information and the interests of secrecy. The revelation of policy views was still a matter of concern to my group in the written round. Disclosure of anonymised, personal policy concepts seemed to us to be in the interests of good and democratic governance. I am pleased to see that this has been taken up by the initiators and that the proposal has, of course, been adapted with due regard for policy intimacy. However, it raises the question of how to determine whether a view can be traced back to a person; traceable to whom? A random builder, a well-informed journalist? Another concern is the position of the Court of Auditors. They keep a lot of confidential information for the purposes of an investigation. When it becomes public, they fear less information. Is that a well-founded fear? How do the initiators prevent this concern from being realized? And what is the position of public service broadcasting and broadcasting associations? Are they going to be partly or entirely covered by the Open Government Act? The Open Government Act also creates an electronic register. A register in which government documents become publicly available. Is it really necessary to wait five years for such an entry into force, as the initiators previously predicted? Many municipalities already have a system for postal management and digital archiving. Such a register must of course be well searchable. The flow of information must remain manageable. Luckily, that's what's being thought about. For example, the Montesquieu Institute has developed an information concept here in The Hague to make large data flows and decision-making processes transparent. This creates a smart information and work environment and makes better use of the expertise in society. So it's a win-win situation. Is the Minister prepared, for example, to carry out a pilot project with the Montesquieu Institute to further develop this system? Article 3.3 of the Open Government Act will require water boards to publish meeting papers and agendas, just as municipalities and provinces should, but they do not need to disclose the documents received. Can the initiators explain this exception in more detail? Then I'll get to the exceptions. At the back of the law is a list of articles that are excluded from parts of the Open Government Act via Article 8.8. These are existing legal disclosure and confidentiality provisions. Is this initiative law, I ask the Minister, not a good time to review this list again? Are all these exceptions to what now the WOB is... and hopefully soon the Open Government Act.. really needed? Finally, I would like to congratulate and commend the work that these initiators have put into this large-scale initiative law, all the more so because a new law is urgently needed for our democratic rule of law, for governance, for the individual. Joining is part of the 21st century, where public accessibility and openness need to be strengthened, because after all, the government belongs to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u19	It is good that Mr Sjoerdsma speaks for both the D66 Group and the GroenLinks Group. If I understand correctly, both groups believe that the current public disclosure regime based on the WOB does not go far enough and that it should be extended to even more institutions and organisations with a public role. Education is an important part of this. Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that in the Netherlands, especially in the Netherlands, all education is funded by the public authorities, and therefore the controllability of public institutions should be promoted?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u20	Of course, I can only hope that I speak on behalf of GroenLinks from the chair or in interruptions, but I will see Mrs Voortman nodding or denying at the time when it is not. Mr Taverne, of course, knows D66 as the educational party par excellence. I can only agree that public access as laid down in this law applies primarily to administrative bodies, but now also to other bodies. Publicity in education in general is, of course, an important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u21	Can Mr Sjoerdsma then explain to me why his colleague Van Meenen co-signed the next motion, for which the D66 Group subsequently voted? Allow me, Mr President, to quote very briefly: 'calls on the government to examine whether the final test results are no longer provided to the inspection and DUO, but to give it only for inspection, ensuring that these results are no longer covered by the Public Administration Act'. That seems to be contrary to the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u22	Unfortunately, I must remain guilty of that answer to Mr Taverne. I am not sufficiently familiar with the portfolio of my colleague Van Meenen in the field of education. There is one thing I know for certain that I can say here with great certainty. If he co-signed that motion and that proposal, it's a damn good motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u23	But it is a motion that contradicts the intention of the Open Government Act. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u24	The latter does not seem to me to be the case, but I should like to review that motion. That seems to me to be something I must promise Mr Taverne. I will pay attention to this in my second term to show that there is no contradiction between Mr Van Meenen's motion and the Open Government Act as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u25	It is understandable that Mr Sjoerdsma, who is speaking on behalf of two political groups who have signed this law, is enthusiastic and has difficulty putting his enthusiasm on the table. I think it would be advisable for the political groups to take note of the criticism of the bill, for example of the VNG, VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands. They say that this is too expensive, unnecessary and risky for business, for example. This should share important information in the areas of ICT and cybersecurity. At the very least, the spokesperson of these groups should be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u26	That's what I'm happy to do, and I'm happy to do. When it comes to legislation, this must be done with great care. I shall split Mr Segers' points. At least there's two of them. He's talking about the cost. The costs were examined by SEO. This has not been done in the light of the final proposal that is now before us, but rather of an intermediate one which is very similar to the proposal that is now before us. It is said that an information commissioner costs around 5 million a year. Perhaps a little bit more is added because the extension of the scope is taken into account. But it is also said, and I think this is important that the investment in ICT will ultimately be profitable for the government. I don't share the concerns about the supposed high cost of the law. Of course, I've heard those concerns. Mr Segers' second point concerns the concerns expressed by VNO-NCW that certain sensitive information called Mr Segers should be shared against the wishes of companies. I would like to pass that question on to the authors, Mr Schouw and Mrs Voortman, with the request to specify that. There are grounds for exception. As I said in my speech, there is, of course, a balance between an open government and the non-publicisation of certain information. That could have something to do with security. When it comes to cyber security, it could be. However, I would like to leave the full answer to the two applicants.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u27	If this bill reaches the state record, we will impose a huge obligation on governments to make much public. This also applies to cooperation with companies or in the event that companies receive subsidies. That could scare the hell out of these companies. That is the concern expressed. The scope is still unclear, as it can be extended via an AMvB. We must be aware here of the enormous concerns that both SMEs in the Netherlands and VNO-NCW express, in the vein of: we no longer want to work very intensively with that government, because it makes us shy. They will be frightened by it. What is the reaction of the D66 Group to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u28	That reaction is two-fold. It is important to prevent companies from being forced to disclose information that potentially leads to security risks. That is what Mr Segers has just spoken about. At the same time, I would also like to qualify Mr Segers' concerns in the sense that private legal persons can only be asked to disclose information to the extent that they carry out public tasks. Take a garage owner: that is actually only an administrative body in terms of the apk-examination. I see that Mr Segers and I agree. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u29	My question was this. The business community is now saying: we are shy of this, we fit for this cooperation and we fit for it to go with the government, because we have to disclose business secrets and a lot of sensitive information, and we do not want to do so. So there will be sand in the wheels of public-private cooperation. Surely that can't be the effect the proposers are aiming for?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u30	There is no doubt that this is not the effect the proposers are aiming at. However, I wonder whether Mr Segers' concerns today are so enormous. I would point out all the advantages of this bill. I am sure that Mr Segers agrees with that. The government is actually forced to actively provide information. I think that in such a situation this certainly outweighs each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u31	Mr. Chairman. It is always nice to see colleagues who are defending an initiative legislative proposal in specialist K. It's also good to see Linda Voortman sitting in the back of the room here today. It is quite a job to prepare an initiative legislative proposal, especially when it comes to such a complex area as public access to administration. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the great work of the proposers and for their support. I do have a few more questions. The CDA Group attaches importance to the openness of governance as one of the demands that may be made to public administration in a democratic rule of law. Publicity is one of the basic conditions that may be imposed, but it is not an end in itself. Do the proposers share that view? I believe that the fact that the desired openness of governance does not always work out in practice and is not experienced in this way is why we are discussing this bill today. Then what goes wrong in practice? What often becomes clear is that openness is not part of the culture in an organisation. The time limits laid down in the law are postponed or interpreted too widely. I have even been told that there is also a difference in the extent to which a department deals with this openness. The bill is based on active disclosure as the main rule. The proposers advocate a cultural change in the government. The CDA Group shares, as has been said, that culture is not always one of openness. However, we are not yet convinced that a law is an appropriate instrument for regulating this cultural change. Can the proposers explain again why, in their view, this change of culture is hampered by the current Public Administration Act? The applicants see a limited number of examples of active disclosure. In particular, they mention DUO, the Education Implementation Service, which makes a lot of educational information public on the website. How is it that, according to the proposers, no more governments follow this example? If we can believe the proposers, a legal obligation for active disclosure automatically leads to the necessary cultural and organisational adjustments in the government and does not play any role in money. The CDA Group, however, has the impression that the wish here is the father of the thought. Can the proposers comment on the amendments required by their legislative proposal? What measures do governments have to take to comply with the law for an open government? What is the deadline for this? What investments are involved? What administrative capacity should be released for this purpose? How do the authors deal with the recommendation of the Temporary Committee on ICT, which we will be discussing tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? These questions would also be put by the CDA Group to the Minister for the Interior, who is here as an advisor to the Chamber. What consequences does the bill have for information and archive management in the government? In the note following the report, the initiators say that they assume that "in view of the fact that administrative bodies already have the task of implementing the current WOB, they are already well equipped to implement the legislative proposal." Does the Minister share that optimistic view? How does he assess the expected costs and the necessary investments? The deadline of a week included in this bill for active disclosure is sufficient to assess whether a piece can actually be public. The proposers expect more active disclosure to lead to increased civic participation. What is their expectation based on? Has access to council information via the Internet led to increased citizen participation? Or are users of this information often professional users, such as journalists and interest groups? On the scope of the legislative proposal, I would like to make the following point. The Second Chamber and the First Chamber are covered by the bill. What do the proposers intend to do about this? What information, which is not yet available, should be made public, according to the applicants? Do the authors consider that the parliamentary information is adequately disclosed by the Chamber itself? Does this apply to all users: journalists, interest groups and interested citizens? The CDA Group agrees with the proposers that active disclosure of public sector information also implies promoting the accessibility and transparency of information. Let us take the legislative proposal before us as an example. Are the documents accessible and insightful in the eyes of the proposers? Are the points of discussion open to everyone? Are the documents behind this bill easy to find? Furthermore, applicants create an exception for the support of individual members of parliament by officials of the Chamber. It does not need to be made public, but what about the group support of the parliamentary groups? The General Court is also covered by the legislative proposal. The Court of Auditors itself calls this "stately remarkable" and fears an undesirable effect in practice: "We are overlooking the view that the Open Government Bill calls for a derogation for the General Court of Auditors because of the impact that the legislative proposal may have on the practice of our research and thus on our task. The risk lies mainly in less self-evident cooperation from controlled people in our research and thus reduced accessibility of our sources." Can the authors comment on this criticism by the Court of Auditors on the proposal before us? Are they prepared to amend their proposal? Do I understand correctly that in the case of General Measure of Governance, all subsidised institutions in the Netherlands that are subsidised for more than €100,000, i.e. financed from general funds, can be brought under the law? There's a lot of them! Is it only information about the spending of this €100,000 from the public purse or is it going to go further and should all information relating to the performance of the task be made public, for example information about the making of the decision-making process? If that is not the case, does this mean that all these subsidised organisations in the Netherlands should actually keep two accounts and two decision registers? Does a pending procedure apply to that General Measure of Management? What does the proposers, including a party which considers itself liberal, think of the separation between the public and the private sector? This will remove it. It's going to be one sector covered by this bill. How far does the duty of care of an administrative body go for the information provided? That information must be up-to-date, accurate and comparable, as stated in Article 2.4 (2). Is this also about completeness? The responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of information prepared by third parties is excluded. Equally practical: should a citizen's complaint letter be entered in a register as a document received for consideration? Have the initiators prepared an AMvB concept with detailed rules on the contents of the register? Or is the minister working on that? How should this information register be filled? Who is responsible for the costs? Article 8.7 also provides for an AMvB with implementing arrangements. Do you really have to do that? Why does the article on public access to the serious public interest appear in the chapter on disclosure on its own initiative, whereas it is in fact a relativisation of the grounds for exception in Articles 5.1 and 5.2? Is it wise to give administrative bodies their own consideration of information relating, for example, to the security of the State? The CDA Group welcomes the fact that the proposers are abandoning the existing link between the WOB and the Penalty Act, but the anti-abuse clause is not quite clear to me yet. How is the administrative body going to make it clear that the applicant "obviously' "that word is used' has a different purpose than to obtain public information? In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators state that there should not be a rapid presumption of abuse. They write: "(...) applicants are entitled to access and do not have to take an interest in their application (...)." Is abuse, by definition, unimaginable or impossible to prove? There are plenty of examples of crazy WOB requests. We all know them. Article 5.4 deals with the disclosure of the cabinet formation. Does this also apply to college negotiations in municipalities, provinces and water boards? Articles 5.6 and 5.7 concern the provision of restricted information to interested parties. It may be information that is not public in relation to the security of the State. I do not follow the authors in this. Can the public authority, in a manner of speaking, provide an applicant with confidential or confidential information? What is the effect on, for example, the security of the State, or any other ground, if the person concerned nevertheless decides, despite the penalty or penalty attached thereto, to disclose this information? Will the proposers allow this construction to work on its own and take the CDA Group into account in its consequences? I will continue with the Commissioner for Information, who is a sort of Ombudsman, if I understand correctly. The Information Commissioner should not only promote the application of the law and advise on laws and regulations, but also receive copies of all kinds of decisions from all administrative bodies. What's he gonna do with that? How does the Information Commissioner relate in terms of tasks and powers to the National Commissioner for Digital Government appointed earlier this year? In the second letter of amendment, the authors took the chapter on re-use of public sector information following an article in the April issue of Media Forum, the magazine for media and communication law. The scope of this is not yet fully clear to the CDA Group. In what cases do they or do they not have intellectual property rights? I am thinking not only of public bodies, but also of libraries, for example. Surely the copyrights of a book will not lapse because it is in a public library? Surely the copyright of a photo does not lapse because it is included in the collection of a municipal archive service? How do these two relate to each other? I'm rounding up. The proposers have high public expectations and reflect the problems that might arise. The CDA Group certainly sees improvements in this legislative proposal compared to the WOB, but has many questions about the realisation of the good intentions in practice. We look forward to receiving the response from the initiators and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u32	I'd like to make a political assessment. I imagine that the VVD Group is leaning towards a counter-vote. It could happen that D66 and GroenLinks will vote in favour and the SP was already positive. Mrs Keijzer has now asked a lot of questions. I'm gonna do that later, because we're still at that stage. Is the CDA Group still convincing or is the CDA Group leaning towards a counter-vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u33	I think Mr Segers has come to know the CDA as a party that supports good proposals and not bad ones. Here is a bill on which a large number of questions have been asked. I also asked the proposers to reflect on possible consequences themselves. I can imagine the question about the CDA's voice, but I think he is a bit premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u34	My question is whether the CDA Group can still be persuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u35	We can always be convinced if there are good arguments and good proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u36	Mr. Chairman. I begin by expressing appreciation for the initiators of this bill. Creating an initiative law is an achievement in itself and I appreciate it even more when it comes to an issue that concerns me too. This is certainly the case with the subject of 'open government'. I agree that the current Public Administration Act (WOB) has come to the end of its lifespan. The starting point that citizens have to ask the government for information before they get it is outdated. The government is there for the citizens, not the other way around. The same applies to public sector information. It is for the citizens, not just for the government. The initiators want to create a cultural change with their legislative proposal. Officials should no longer act suspiciously when a citizen asks for information, but should have just given it. In any case, the starting point must be that it is perfectly normal for a citizen to receive this information. One may wonder whether a change of culture should or could even be enforced by law. Shouldn't that come with some stimuli from the bottom up? That would be nice, but I think a law can be a push in the back. I would also say that if you push too hard, governments and civil servants could also put their heels in the sand. Then they act strictly according to the letter of the law and the cultural change is gone again. So you have to be careful not to get too strict with a law. I will come back to that later. Transparency is very important for society's trust in governance. The bill we are discussing today regulates more transparency by requiring governments to disclose certain information on their own initiative. The PvdA is therefore a strong supporter of the principle "public, unless." I'll go into that "unless." As much as I am in favour of an open government, I am not equally enthusiastic about everything the initiators propose. On a few points, my group even has strong doubts. These are very important when it comes to the voting behaviour of my group at the end of the debate on this bill. Publicity must be the starting point. However, my group also believes that civil servants should continue to be able to do their work without being hindered by unnecessary bureaucratic provisions and without being paralyzed. In this context, I would like to comment on the two main comments I make on the legislative proposal as it stands. The first concerns the so-called 'personal policy concepts'. In today's Wob, the starting point is that personal policy ideas expressed in internal reflection are not made public. The initiators see it differently. They propose, in summary, that personal views be made public at the end of the deliberations, provided that they cannot be traced back to the official. I understand that this is what the initiators intend to do. I also know that they have drawn up a letter of amendment on this point and there are already exceptions. However, I believe that officials should be able to express their views and views freely during an internal reflection. The chance that their personal policy views will have to be made public at a later stage will hinder them. This hampers the quality of decision-making, reduces the definition of personal policy concepts and therefore does not ensure that more information becomes available. However well-meant, with the mandatory disclosure of the personal policy concepts, you get out of the rain.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u37	I agree that civil servants should be able to say anything and should not be dealt with politically afterwards. However, the current situation is often so that when information is requested, it is said: we cannot give it because it is personal information from civil servants. Then you get nothing at all. Why is it not possible to make known on request what considerations have been made, what dangers and problems have been seen, what alternatives have been discussed and why a certain choice has finally been made? This would give much clarity to the debate in society, but also in the Chamber, and be important in order to achieve good laws and rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u38	I do not agree with that, because I see it as more of a practical problem. How big and how far does this information collection go? Is this also about a whatsapp that is sent during a meeting? Is this also about a Twitter message that you send internally? Is it about one of those sticky yellow notes what are the names of those things in Dutch? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Eventually, it's about the information you need being public. I'm sorry, but what three officials said about that at the coffee machine, I don't find relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u39	If an official is twittering during a private meeting, it is already public. Is that traceable? It is, of course, a matter of allowing citizens and also representatives of the people to see the considerations that have been made. What alternatives were possible? Why is that one choice made? What dangers and what problems have been discussed? That is all part of the process of making good decisions. In my opinion, it is very good for us and for citizens to look at the trade-offs that have been made and what alternatives have been discussed, because we can do our job better.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u40	In my first statement, I said that it was about the scope: what information was and what was not? It is also a question of protecting the civil servant. I do not think it is relevant which official has spoken with what policy or political-strategic view, because it is ultimately about the end result. We are talking about a cultural change. If we say now that everything an official says, in any discussion, will eventually be public, we will all go back in the closet. Then we won't be discussing things in public anymore. Then we'll just make sure it gets to the coffee maker. And I think that is a wrong expression of the proposal, which is precisely intended to make it a more public law, i.e. more like a Public Administration Act, or open government, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u41	Can't we make a distinction in that? I do not think what official A has said to official B through official C is very interesting. That's by the coffee machine. It is interesting to know what considerations have been made, what alternatives have been discussed and what problems have been seen. It is also possible to separate that from the official's person and to describe the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u42	We agree on that. In order to protect the official, it will therefore not be traceable back to the official. The question is, however, what will be the scope of this. What do you want and what don't you want? I think you should think about that. You then have to examine each piece first whether they are personal policy concepts. I believe that this will give us a good deal of scope. This only leads to administrative burdens and, in my own words, to a fuss with the administrative judge. This point weighs heavily for my group. I have an amendment in preparation which brings the obligation to disclose personal policy views back to the level currently in the WED. I would like the initiators at least to address my group's objections. Then we'll talk about the scope of the law. The initiators want to make it possible, in the long term, to include semi-public institutions under the law. I'm not convinced of that. That the government should be public is fine. It's controlling us. Semi-public organisations must also be public, to some extent. But that doesn't have to go as far as the real government. The semi-public institutions do important business, including with taxpayers' money. However, they are farther away from the government and not only have public sides. They also have information that does not need to be made public at all. I am thinking here of commercially sensitive information or even stock exchange sensitive information. Can the proposers respond to this? The same applies to the General Court of Auditors. That is an important advisory and controlling body. The Court of Auditors has far-reaching powers. He can force others to provide information. The Court of Auditors can only do its job well if it can do so in confidence. That is why I would urge the Court of Auditors not to be included in the Woo. Of course, the results of the Court's investigations must be public. That goes without saying. I would ask the proposers to respond to this. Another important point for my group is the Information Commissioner. Here too, I understand the good intentions of the initiators, but here too I do not agree with them and I should like to prepare an amendment. In the eyes of the initiators, the Information Commissioner should help with the desired cultural change. As far as I am concerned, the Commissioner's usefulness and necessity have not yet been demonstrated, particularly at the moment. Like I said, you can go too far in forcing it. With the powers that the Information Commissioner should have, in my view, it becomes too much of a strict Commissioner. I think that the governing bodies themselves should first be given the opportunity to prove that they can deal with the new regime of the Woo (Open Government Act). If the need for an information commissioner later, for example after an initial evaluation of the Woo, turns out to be necessary, then it can always be set up, but we have to look at that by then. All this, plus the fact that the Commissioner also has to cost EUR 5 million a year, makes the decision for my group to postpone the introduction of the Commissioner for Information until the next evaluation. As has already been said, this is reflected in an amendment that is being prepared. Hopefully the initiators themselves show moving insight. Speaking of costs, the implementation of this bill brings with it additional obligations for the public authorities. I am thinking, for example, of the costs of keeping a register of documents held by administrative bodies. What does it cost and what does it ultimately gain from profit when it comes to public access? There are more costs. Of course, it has to be that the implementation of the bill costs money. That is not a bad thing in itself, but we need to know much better about how much money is involved. The initiators do not map this properly. I would therefore ask them to do so. I would particularly like to ask the Minister. What is the cost of implementing this bill? Many other points have already been addressed by my colleagues in the written round or today. I shall therefore leave it to you, given the time, to mention one more of those points. Can the initiators also think carefully about the obligation to publish documents within one week? Is such a short-term workable in practice? We share the starting point of an open government. However, we still have many questions about the way in which the initiators propose them. I look forward to their reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u43	Mrs Oosenbrug talks about costs. It is indeed a good thing to clarify that. At the same time, I would like to ask her to reflect on the proceeds. What is Mrs Oosenbrug's acceptable cost-benefit ratio of the Open Government Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u44	I don't know. I can't estimate the costs right now anyway. I read that an information commissioner costs $5 million. If there is another 5 million or more for adjustments due to this law, I think that perhaps the money could be better spent, especially at this time, when we face enormous challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u45	I would like to come back to the revenue, because costs can also be reduced. An average WOB request currently costs €4,800 in the Netherlands. In surrounding countries, this is only €1,000. I would ask you to include this in your assessment. An information Commissioner may cost EUR 5 million, but if the costs per WOB request......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u46	With the amendment of the Penalty Act, I think there is already a lot to be done. We are still waiting for the Minister's bill, but that huge cost is precisely in connection with the improper requests. We do not need this proposal for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u47	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors. It is remarkable that the first petitioner is far away, in a modest place all the way back. I do not think it is entirely appropriate to compare the submission of an initiative proposal with a delivery, but I look forward to the moment that Mr Voortman is back in business and we can have the debate here. Meanwhile, the second petitioner, Mr Schouw, is in his trusted place in box K. I spend a lot of hours with Mr Schouw and I think he sits in the room at least as often as he does there. That, too, is worthy of congratulations. An initiative proposal is a great deal of work and I thank him for the efforts that have been made. It is an important subject, because the government has a high, responsible task. It serves the public interest and makes decisions on our behalf which, if anything, contribute to a better society, but which can also intervene in the personal lives of its citizens. That is why high demands are rightly placed on public trade. It must be integrity, reliability and transparency. Citizens will eventually have to recognize themselves in their government. The Christian Union supports the proposers in their search for an open and approachable government. Times have changed. Large quantities of information are freely accessible and made freely accessible. The legislation on the disclosure of public sector information no longer thinks from the filing cabinets, but from the wide possibilities of ICT. On a number of points, the current WOB breaks down. I support the efforts to modernise the WOB, but I do have a number of critical questions. Openness should not stand in the way of digging and weighing different policy alternatives. At the time of the crisis, the Ministry of Finance had it passed on what it would mean if we left the euro and provided an alternative to the euro. This is, of course, a very sensitive issue with enormous consequences if it comes out without context or early. However, the proposers swear to us that the current law provides sufficient protection for the exchange of personal policy views. That is what the debate was about just now. I note, however, that the UNG, for example, is not satisfied with this. Free exchange of views is needed in order to arrive at policy. Can the proposers assure me that this interest is not limited? The VNG also raises some practical objections to the obligation of active disclosure and the obligation to register. It points to the inexhaustible size and the mandatory speed of disclosure. It's been a week. Frankly, I fear a well-known non-discussion here between the proposers and the VNG. If we continue with this proposal now, we will be wise because of damage and shame. But is that the best route now? Do the proposers know examples in which they believe that this is feasible for governments? Can they justify this with cases and can they prove it? Has it been considered to launch a voluntary pilot to see how this is worked out in practice? How do we really not keep our finger on the pulse of this proposal, which is a little too easy to dictate from the drawing table a few deadlines and obligations? I also point out the noble ambition of one of the proposers to make 2015 the year of privacy. Too little time and large-scale registers are at least a risk, so ask the second proposer in particular? In a letter, the VNG pointed out that the word "serious" had been included in the exception. The weighting of the exceptions must seriously harm an interest, but the question is whether the single damage of an interest is not sufficient. I would like to receive an answer to this question from the VNG. I would ask the authors to respond in more detail to the letter from the General Court. The questions have been asked before, but I also like to ask them. The Court of Auditors states briefly that it does not have sufficient room to consider independently what information it discloses. That's damaging his investigation process. He refers to the regulations in the United States, where an exception has been made for the US Court of Auditors. I can very well imagine the objections. I have an amendment in preparation on that point, but I await the reaction of the proposers first. I come to the hot potato of this bill: its scope. As semi-public legal entities can also be brought under this law by means of an AMvB, it is not entirely clear in advance how far the legislative proposal goes. There is, however, an assessment of the legal entities that could be involved. That's a lot of them. I feel with the proposers that the institutions that have a public domain task should be transparent. However, VNO-NCW rightly points out that the current legislative proposal even allows the designation of an individual company that receives €100,000 for some project. I ask the proposers how many companies this could affect and whether this is proportionate. I would also like to know why, apart from a front suspension procedure. That is an additional safety clause that may be appropriate here. Another difficult issue for VNO-NCW is the concern of companies about the business and manufacturing data they provide to the government. Mr Taverne pointed that out. After five years, they will in any case become public unless the government justifies why this is not yet possible. Companies have no position in this. I can well imagine the care of entrepreneurial Netherlands. Have the applicants considered further securing the interest of companies in providing confidential information to the government, even after the first five years? Why did they abandon it? In the written round, the Christian Union has put its finger on the protection of the privacy of individuals in the event of disclosure. Personal data can become public if someone agrees to it. I have asked for attention to be paid to the situation in which one feels compelled to agree or in which one cannot really see the consequences. The applicants now state that an administrative body may refuse disclosure if privacy is at stake and only if that is not the case will it have to ask the person concerned. I really do read the legal text differently. Here's what's in it. "The disclosure of information shall also be omitted in so far as it seriously harms one or more of the following interests and does not outweigh the general interest of disclosure of information', after which it shall be stated, "respect for privacy, unless the person concerned agrees to disclosure'. I would like to get a response to my statement that it now seems as if an administrative body always has to go to the person concerned first and does not have to make its own assessment first. I'd like to be convinced at this point. Finally, I come to the evaluation clause. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Sjoerdsma. It was about whether an evaluation after five years would not be much too late if VNO-NCW's objections were well founded, namely that companies would be shy to cooperate with the government, and if public-private cooperation would be damaged by this bill. How do we keep the finger on the wrist? How can we ascertain much earlier whether this law goes too far or meets its purpose? All the way to the end, I have a question for the Minister. He is going to implement an EU directive on this issue. How does the implementation of that directive relate to this bill? How does a modernisation of the WOB, which I believe has already been announced orally, relate to this bill? I understand the Minister is waiting for his renewal of the WOB until this bill has been dealt with first. That's correct. That's neat. At the same time, however, it is good for us to consider whether this is the right way forward or whether modernising the WOB is a better route. Can he shine his light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u48	Mr Segers is extremely critical of the proposal for a number of good reasons. At the same time, he announced that he would at least consider tabling an amendment. He also says he wants to be convinced. I cannot suppress the tendency to ask Mr Segers the question he himself asked the CDA colleague, namely: is the Christian Union Group now so critical that it really does not see sense, or is it inclined to be a little more positive about it with amendments and adjustments?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-32.u49	The Christian Union also takes the view that good proposals deserve support and bad proposals do not deserve support. That is a very good starting point. We are indeed critical. I have asked critical questions about the scope, among other things. It is an open debate, so I look forward to the follow-up. If the law comes into the Official Journal, we must at least ensure that it is not worse, but better than feared. This means that we must at least improve on the Court of Auditors. If the law goes through, it would be an important point of improvement. Whether this is sufficient for my group to vote in favour of the entire legislative proposal in the end is to be seen.
