ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the leaders, the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate at home or from the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. My party welcomes the commitments made during the AO by the Secretary of State of VWS and the Minister of V and J, who represented the Secretary of State of V and J. My group will table one more motion. She's talking about zero measurement in gambling addiction. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the latest figures on the number of gambling addicts are a few years old and only limited on online gambling;]] [[Considers that an up-to-date picture of the size and development of the number of gambling addicts contributes to a good understanding of the future effects of regulation of online gambling;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an up-to-date measurement of gambling addiction in relation to online gambling as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber of the results and how the Government will monitor the development of gambling addicts in relation to online gambling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Rebel and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	We spoke during the debate about a zero measurement of the state of play on gambling addiction so that we can keep track of whether the situation is deteriorating or improving. I believe it is the intention of this motion that a zero measurement be carried out, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yeah, it's a zero reading. That's what I said, if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is also satisfied with the commitments made by both directors on many aspects of addiction care. The CDA Group also considers it important that there be a zero measurement of gambling addiction. It therefore fully supports the PvdA's motion and does not wish to table any further motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. The consequences of addiction are enormous in terms of debt, relationships with others and the environment in which you live. We discussed this well during the general consultation. Zorginstituut Nederland has done research on the quality of addiction care. The cabinet will give an integral response to this. The study states that patients who need care, in this case those who need addiction care, should ask the health insurance provider for permission to get care somewhere. That's way out of our league. During the debate, we asked who actually decides whether someone should be given care and where that person should be best placed to go. Is that the health insurance provider or should that be based on the professional's medical judgement, of course in accordance with the person who needs care? The cabinet says that the latter is the case, but at the same time we see that insurers are actually sitting on the chair of the treating doctor, of the professional, and that the Healthcare Institute is giving this advice. I shall therefore table the next motion very preventively. I hope she will be seen as support for policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that healthcare insurers may block referrals from professionals;]] [[believes that addiction is a serious disease that should not be considered lightly;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that when referring to an institution for addiction care, the opinion of the medical professional is guiding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Rebel and Mr Bruins Slot for their motion. I begin with the observation that hundreds, thousands of Dutch people are already participating in online gambling without any protection from a licensing system. The intention of the Gambling Act is to change that. From the annual key figures on addiction care and the figures on online gambling in the Gambling report, which was already made in 2012 and which was also discussed in the debate, the picture shows that the group of problem players is more or less stable and that the help demand of gamblers has been falling for years. I do agree with the authors of the motion that it is important to understand the effects of the changes in gambling policy. For this reason, I have already decided to have the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre carry out an up-to-date measurement of gambling addiction among online chance players. The research agenda of the WODC already provides for the establishment of an evaluation system and the implementation of an up-to-date measurement. The study is divided into two parts, also with a view to the treatment of the Remote Gambling Act. At the end of March or the beginning of April, I will send to the Chamber the results of the investigation into gambling addiction in a narrow sense, in which there are similarities with the Remote Gambling Act, for example on internet gambling. In the summer of the year, the WODC will need more time for this. The Court will receive the results of a wider investigation, from all other parts, which do not affect remote gambling. Earlier, when replying to the written input of the Chamber, I will inform the Chamber of the results of the country comparative study. This has been the subject of general consultation. We have been asked what is happening in other countries. I believe that Mrs Bruins Slot has asked for this in general consultation. I was not there myself, but of course I heard from the Minister what was exchanged there. I understand that the CDA Group is particularly interested in the situation in Denmark. Yes, there has been an investigation there. I'm gonna say "a little investigation." It was a small study by an addiction institution; it was a very small, non-representative survey in a research into gambling addiction. In addition to getting insight into the current figures, I will give some of them when replying to your input on the legislative proposal, it is important for the Trimbos Institute to look at the results, score and play responsibly. We have awarded the Trimbos Institute a grant to develop a prevention package for online gambling. I will go into this in detail when I answer the questions put in writing. That is what I am doing in anticipation of the creation of the addiction prevention fund, which will be set up by means of the draft directive on remote gambling, at least that is what the Gaming Authority and the Ministry of VWS intend to do. That's the idea. In that sense, I see the motion tabled as a support for policy. I hope that at the end of March, at the beginning of April, we will have the intermediate position with information on gambling addiction in a narrow sense in relation to the draft law on distance gambling, so that the legislative proposal will not be delayed. 2015 should also be a productive year for the cabinet. I know it's also your interest to monitor that progress. I see this motion as a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	As President, this Member of Parliament has no interest in anything, but we know each other outside this office. I note that the Secretary of State has made commitments on a number of points in the motion. It is then always up to the proposers whether they wish to table the motion. I note that the motion is still standing. We shall now proceed to the second motion and I would ask the Secretary of State to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. All the necessary points have been made in the written preparation, in response to the questions. I have a comment to make on the motion, which asks to ensure that when referring to an institution for addiction care, the opinion of the medical professional is leading. I have already said in reply to the questions that if a treatment provider finds that a clinical treatment or admission is appropriate, whether or not in a specialised clinic, the health insurance provider should take care of this. I have difficulty with the motion because it refers to 'an institution'. We need each other's judgment. Sometimes there are doubts as to whether the treatment in an institution is good and whether the method used is effective. There can be no discussion that if a medical practitioner says that treatment or admission is needed, whether or not in a specialised clinic, the health insurance provider should take care of this and that the medical professional's judgement is guiding it. If the petitioner can help me by changing "institution" to "treatment/treatment in a clinic" or not, then I would call the motion a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	I'll take a look at Mrs. Leijten. Can you indicate whether you can agree to the clarification requested by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	I would certainly like to do that, but I would like to add one more question. The Secretary of State had no reason to doubt the fulfilment of the duty of care by health insurers when it comes to addiction care. After the debate, we were able to take note of the NZa Monitor for mental health care, which also deals with addiction care, and it is noted that the procurement policy of health insurance companies creates waiting lists. I would like the State Secretary's undertaking that, if we regulate this, this is policy support, so we are going to appeal to health insurers to the fact that they seem to have not bought enough, creating waiting lists or preventing people from being referred to the specialized treatment they do need.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	The point of the motion is, in my view, a clarification. Let's establish with each other that that clarity is there. Does the Secretary of State consider it necessary to amend the text of the motion accordingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	The motion is being modified. Ladies and gentlemen will then know that there will be an amended motion to clarify this point. I would now like to give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	It is also necessary to ensure that there are no unreasonable waiting lists. The treatment must comply with the standards agreed. The duty of care also includes the fact that there are no waiting lists that ensure that people do not receive the care they are entitled to. This is part of addressing the insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	The vote on the motions will take place tomorrow at the final vote.
