ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u1	Mr. Chairman. In view of the clock, I'm gonna skip all in and out and start investing in the Defense Department. That sounds like a nice opening question to me. The CDA and D66 have asked how it is possible for money to be left in the defence sector, when we have to invest there. The cabinet agrees with this, but the fact is that various reorganisations and the redevelopment of the acquisition chain in the Defence Department have put a brake on the extent to which investment projects could be realised. The late work has now been done. There are also measures to further strengthen the acquisition chain, including complementing the capabilities of the Defence Equipment Organisation. This will make it possible to catch up in the investment ratio in the coming years. That is also possible, because we have agreed an unlimited end-of-year margin with the Defence Department in terms of investment. The funds will therefore be carried forward and will be used as soon as possible. Mr Koolmees has asked whether it is not strange that the money from fines and settlements at Security and Justice is being used to close gaps in the budget. The gaps arise because some parties, which the Cabinet likes to work with in particular on the budget of Security and Justice, have disappointed us somewhat. Moreover, the system that fines and occasional settlements may be used within the budget of Security and Justice is not new and the cabinet sees no reason to change that. Revenue is being changed on the non-tax side of the Security and Justice budget, but Security and Justice must also cover setbacks against the estimates themselves and absorb any windfalls. In the case of settlements, there are windfalls this year, but there are no fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u2	I agree with the Minister that it is a long-standing practice that fines and settlements end up in the budget of Security and Justice. We now saw a setback of 70 million in the fines and transactions in 2014, but this is compensated by the 69 million in the settlement in the Libor affair. My point is that this kind of settlement is so sporadic that I was talking about 5 million, but it is also about 10 million, so sporadic that the question is whether it is necessary to reduce the budget of Security and Justice. It is not a question of regular fines and transactions, but of very specific settlements, such as the Libor affair or SBM Offshore. Is it not wise, from the independence of the public prosecutor and not to depend on such fines, to separate them and deposit them in general funds at the sale of a state-owned company?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u3	We must keep the independence of the public prosecutor out of this, because the public prosecutor is independent, regardless of which departmental, general or transcendent budget the money comes from. The cabinet has no reason to change that. Both settlements and fine revenues are surrounded by uncertainty. We know what problems sometimes arise with the revenue from fines. They are high, then disappointing, at least from a financial point of view. Settlements are already completely unpredictable. We want to leave it together, unless the House decides otherwise by a majority. However, I would advise against that. Questions have been asked about under-exhaustment in a number of posts. Mr Merkies has asked more generally about the underexhaustment and Mr Omtzigt has asked to what extent it is also structural. The under-exhaustment that we have now found in expenditure is not of a structural nature. That is very often not the case. The final annual margin is 1% of the departmental budget and a large proportion of this type of underexhaustment may be taken to the following year. Sometimes there is under-exhaustment on one file and overrun on the other. In any case, there is no reason to change the frameworks or to adjust the estimates on the basis of this year's under-exhaustment. Specific questions have been asked about asylum and emergency aid. Let me give you an example. Total expenditure on first-year asylum reception amounts to EUR 740 million. Indeed, we have released 375 million extra for this because of the unexpectedly high influx of asylum seekers. We explicitly said in spring that we hoped that the money would not be needed this year and that we could move it forward. It was also the assignment for V&J to move it to next year. After all, the costs are not immediately gone when you have such a peak in the inflow. Because we knew how uncertain it was, it was hard to tell how much money V&J needed this year. That is why we have released this amount for it, with the remark that the money left by the departments will be transferred to 2015. That has indeed happened for asylum. The same applies to V&J and emergency aid. Emergency aid is also difficult to estimate. We have found that the resources of the Minister for Development Cooperation for emergency aid were virtually exhausted in the course of 2014. We have also said to her that the funds that are not needed this year for the Middle East or Ebola, for example, can be transferred to next year. We have been very clear from the beginning that this money was meant for two years. Several Members have spoken on education. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Merkies. He asked how $100 million could be left on the shelf. The net under-utilisation in 2014 is to the benefit of the EMU balance. The amount falls well within the end-of-year margin of OCW. The OCW budget amounts to about 35 billion. 1% can in principle be moved to next year. That's a very good system. After all, you should not build in a perverse incentive, which means that people think that the money should go out and they quickly come up with something to spend it on. That's the way we deliberately agreed. The EUR 100 million will therefore be carried forward and will be retained for the Ministry of Education. I will come back to the amendment later, but you already know how my judgment will be. Mr Harbers asked about the guarantees. He pointed out that the strong guarantees for loans and subordinated guarantees represented a risk to the public authorities and its budget. He was somewhat disappointed with the reduction of the amount of guarantees. He mentioned an amount I couldn't bring home immediately. My state teaches me that the total amount of guarantees in 2012 was 258 billion. This year, we had 203 billion in guarantees. Next year, the amount will fall further below 200 billion. That's a pretty big drop, isn't it? That also makes sense, because we come from a period of crisis, so we need to cut it down. Loans and guarantees are the same, but, of course, they are much lower. We have agreed with the department of VWS and the Rijksdienst Wonen to evaluate the arrangements well and to ask ourselves if it is really necessary. They are the great bailiffs. They are often institutions with large reserves that can also bear risks themselves. We'll come back to the evaluation later. The guarantees have therefore fallen by almost 60 billion in recent years. Mr Koolmees asked for subsidies from the energy agreement. They will not be paid until 2015. He specifically asked about the Rotterdam Storage and Capture Demonstration project. Those are the topics that I always like to deal with more deeply. I've been completely into it. The business case isn't closed yet, I'm told. As a result, no final decision has been taken this year. For this reason, the budget that has not yet been used in 2014 is not automatically earmarked for 2015. To the extent that it is in EZ's final annual margin, it will move forward and EZ can of course re-use it for this project in 2015, should a positive investment decision follow. Mr Omtzig asked about the increase in excise duties. There's been a lot of talk about that. My answer will not surprise him. The Cabinet notes that revenue from excise duty on diesel and LPG from 2013 to 2014, i.e. horizontally, increases by 0.2 billion. Although that increase is lower than expected last year in the Millennium Note 2014. Mr Omtzigt always refers to that, so he makes the vertical comparison; I look horizontally........................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's less significant. Mr Koolmees asked when there would be a tax reduction. At this point too, it is a bit of a repetition, but I am always happy to do so. As he knows, we are currently working on the elaboration of a comprehensive tax reform. That is a broad operation, with many different themes. We have two main objectives: on the one hand to reduce the burden on labour and on the other hand to reduce the complexity of the system. As soon as there is room for this, it will require a net relief, and Mr Koolmees knows our ambition on this point... we will start next year. There is no doubt that we will start next year. The extent to which, so whether we take a big step immediately or that the step will be slightly smaller, depends on the circumstances. This is in fact the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question: is all the burden relief now going to go to additional expenditure? As is well known, reducing burdens is a priority for us, clearly in the context of a reform of the system. Whether additional expenditure is needed in other respects, we will look at it in the spring. I would remind you of Mr Van der Staaij's motion, which was also supported by the CDA and D66, which speaks of a certain ambition. So we will see that in the spring. Mr Nijboer asked about pension contributions. Will they actually fall in 2015? On 5 December, the CPB showed that pension contributions are expected to fall by 7% in 2015. In 2014, premiums have already fallen by 6%. The total premium resulting from the austerity of the Witteveenkader and the adjustment of the ftk and the parameters is 13% according to these latest insights according to the CPB. That is a little higher than the previous estimate of 11% in June. I come to the European post-tax. We have also discussed this on several occasions. Mr Omtzig asked again about the confidential report which he would like to receive from the official who was at the official committee in Brussels where an initial communication was made on the provisional amount of the post levy. We have often had this discussion with each other. It is a report in which the official for the departments in The Hague writes down who has said what. We do not make that type of report public. Then you would have to wipe out three quarters of the report, otherwise you would have to make public what others have said in a confidential and private meeting. I don't think we can do this in the peer relations. Nevertheless, I am always very willing to exchange all the information and information on the way things are going with the Chamber. I don't have to be secretive about all that. It's a setback, a big setback. Why does the Netherlands pay in 2014? Why are we paying now? That's what we wrote to the Chamber. That is a balance-effect and space-based balancing exercise under the expenditure framework and simply from the point of view of cash management. We simply have a lot of money now. My point is, if you can do it, you have to pay your bills. We don't need to borrow extra for it. It'd already been done. So it was already in the sovereign debt in that sense. Furthermore, the gross post-tax could be incorporated into the national budget from a balance and expenditure margin point of view. Finally, the Dutch State currently faces negative interest rates on short-term loans. An early payment of the post levy therefore provides a small interest rate advantage. Mr Omtzigt has again made a point not to pay now but to wait until all the statistics have been checked. This is a matter of principle on which we do not agree. It's not my place to check the statistics. It is not up to politics to check statistics at all. We leave this to statistical offices, under the authority of Eurostat, which assess it at system level. A reservation has been made on those points where Eurostat is not satisfied with the quality of the figures. This will not be lifted until that satisfaction is achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u4	This means that next year the statistics will be audited by Eurostat and other statistical offices that can be used. Doesn't it make more sense to wait until the numbers are checked? Could the Minister address the question of whether we can see the actual account as a Lower House? It arrived in November and we had already asked for it in the actual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u5	We will no doubt at some point have received a call for payment from the European Commission. In traffic between departments and the European Commission, you have these kinds of messages all the time. My sincere question is: what is Mr Omtzigt doing wanting to see all this kind of official messaging? I'll share the information in the room. The European Commission has informed the Member States, on the basis of this whole process and the decision-making process, that payments must be made. You will receive formal notice of this at some point. That message came in. Does Mr Omtzigt have any doubts as to whether it has entered? Is he questioning the amount? What's he questioning? I am genuinely trying to understand the reasons behind Mr Omtzigt's question, because otherwise any official report exchanged between departments or between Brussels and departments can be shared with the Chamber. I don't know if all of us should want this. I try to understand in all honesty what Mr Omtzigt's substantive question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u6	I asked two questions, so I would like to repeat my first question on statistics, which can be retrieved. The second question is that we have repeatedly asked whether, because the government has been surprised at a number of times when information may or may not be available, we can obtain the actual information. As far as I am concerned, there has been some fog about this. This is why we as CDA asked to actually indicate when what was communicated. This is also why we asked for the letter of 17 October, which states when there is actually a request to pay. Every time it's said I have to trust the government. I can imagine. However, I can also turn the question around: what is wrong with simply putting the issues that were exchanged from 17 October on in the Chamber? Something of the amazement that was there every time would have disappeared. We could have checked if that surprise was true.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u7	We need to keep two things apart for a while. First of all, the question that has remained. Mr Omtzigt says that you have to check the figures first and pay only then. Checking this process of numbers, the system of revisions every few years, sometimes also an adjustment of the method, regular resource revisions, the imposition of reservations and the later lifting, once the figures have been completed, is a continuous process. It is not the case that it has been said once: let's see if the figures are good and look once at adjustment. This process is ongoing and will continue. If Member States are going to say that Eurostat's next visit must have taken place before paying, it will be a mess. Member States are obliged to pay on the basis of such revisions, adjustments, statistical figures having an impact on their GNI. I'm very much defending that, too. I am not going to question that because we might not be satisfied with that process, what the statisticians are doing for us, to continue to complete the figures. It is really a continuous process that will continue in the years to come. I have said before that I think that there are points of improvement, especially in communication and the meaning for naheeffen et cetera, but they are much more in timing and communication. Therefore, it makes no sense to wait for the next round controllers before we start paying. If all Member States were to do so, the European budget would be a total disaster. So I can't go along with that. I come to the point of surprise. We've been exchanging outbursts about that. My surprise did not arise specifically on the Friday on which the European Council took place in Brussels. That's what Mr Omtzigt says: what the hell, you've known for a week! That's right. We have no misunderstandings about that either. I knew it from that official meeting that had taken place, and we were, as it were, given a warning of the provisional figures. Why for now? Because the statisticians' committee didn't formally adopt them until Wednesday and Thursday. So I had a warning, so my surprise wasn't about that. My surprise was about the fact that the Netherlands received such a large levy as a result of the process that took place in the past year. I've explained it several times. That's what I was surprised about. In this sense, the report which Mr Omtzigt is asking for and which I have explained in substance why I cannot give it is not so relevant either. I am simply saying it openly: at that meeting we were informed of the post-taxes that we were given for our choice; for the time being, because they had yet to be formally established.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u8	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u9	The other point was the Commission's letter. I hope it will remain an exception, but I have no objection to making it confidential. However, my problem with that is as follows. It is very important that the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet should be based on trust. There's trust until that's canceled. The problem with Mr Omtzigt's approach is that there is actually no trust until he has seen everything and has all the documents at his disposal. I would suggest to Mr Omtzig that he does not follow that route entirely, because he will become totally stuck in the amount of pieces that go around in The Hague and Brussels. Apart from that, the fundamental question is: can we still work with each other on the basis of trust until this trust is damaged? Then Mr Omtzigt can cancel it. If I simply say to Mr Omtzigt that we have had a letter from Brussels calling for that amount to be paid, it is extremely constructive for the movement between Chamber and Cabinet if he accepts it from me. If it turns out that I was joking about that, which I'm not, he's gonna have to send me away. However, that basis of trust is quite essential to be able to work with each other. Mr Koolmees asked about the Four Presidents Report, as it is called in Brussels. We have been called upon to do this in the European Council, and more specifically in the Eurozone Summit. That is the European Council for the euro area countries. It called on the four presidents to deliver an opinion on the euro area's long-term economic agenda. That has been delayed, for very practical reasons. Firstly, the European Commission has just started, and secondly, it has given all the priority to the investment plan. It would have been a good thing for me, as I say in all honesty, if that investment programme had immediately been framed in a reform agenda and confirmed the budgetary arrangements. I'm guessing the last one's just standing there. Maybe you don't have to confirm it either. They're standing. But a link to reforms would have been good. It is now mentioned in Juncker's plans. In the meantime, we also need to reform, but there is not yet a direct link, a way to connect it with each other. President Draghi and the undersigned continue to press for this: reform, reform, reform. If you really want to do something about investment in Europe, the investment climate must improve. Then it must come primarily from private investment. There is just little public space to invest, even with the Juncker plan. Mr Nijboer asked about the impact of the situation in the Russian economy on the economy of Europe and the Netherlands. The Russian rouble is going down hard. Oil prices are falling internationally, which has a major impact on Russia. The latter, of course, has a positive and negative effect for the Netherlands. Low energy prices are in many respects good for the Dutch economy and for households, but we will suffer from this, also on the revenue side of the budget, because of a lower gas price. In direct economic terms, the damage is still limited, but you can see that, particularly in Germany, confidence has fallen very badly since the beginning of the Ukraine crisis. In that sense, it has a great effect. The Russian economy is eight times smaller than that of the European Union. Nevertheless, this is the disappearance of a trading partner. So I think it's in everyone's best interest when the Russians turn their interference in Ukraine back into a constructive and constructive role instead of a destabilising role. The sanctions can then be brought down quickly. Then I come to a few points about the financial sector. We must be cautious in dealing with dividend payments. It's about banks that are in the hands of the state. I have always said that I understand with restraint that dividend policy must be in line with the timely fulfilment of all capital requirements. It is up to DNB to say that dividend policy must be low and that a bank must first replenish or redeem its capital. DNB even has formal powers to say to me: you cannot remove that dividend from the bank, it must remain in it. That's out of the question. SNS has not paid a dividend since nationalisation. ABN AMRO paid the State 400 million in 2013 and 325 million in 2014. I do not want to say that the lower amount comes directly from the Nijboer/Koolmees motion, but you might think so. In the meantime, ABN AMRO's core capital ratio has increased from 12.2% to 12.9%. I thought Mr Nijboer asked for that. I realize now that he was asking about the leverage ratio. I don't have it with me right now. Mr Omtzigt has said that low interest rates should lead to us securing the sovereign debt for a longer period of time. As we know, we have a policy framework for this, which has also been discussed with the Chamber. It's my predecessor's. It aims to finance public debt, of course, at the lowest possible cost, but also at an acceptable risk. Longer fixing of interest is possible under conditions. One of the conditions is, of course, that there is room in the budget. We are going to evaluate that framework next year and then this question will also be addressed. I'll come back to that next year. I am not in favour of correcting that policy framework ad hocly. Then I come to the final theme: Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u10	Before you go any further, Mr Van Dijck has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u11	We all know that framework. That's the seven-year cycle. However, these are exceptional circumstances. The interest paid by the State for a ten-year bond has never been so low as long as the Kingdom exists, 0.8%. We always talk about the next generations, and that is why we must now be smart about them and anticipate them. We can say that next year's evaluation is planned and that we are sticking to it, but can the Minister not bring it forward in a smart way to anticipate the exceptional circumstance that we are now paying such ridiculously low interest rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u12	Ridiculous is indeed the right word. It's nice, but it's dangerous. I can see us getting used to that. Normally, if we open longer loans, they will be converted immediately. By closing receiver swaps, they are returned to the seven-year interest rate. We're not doing that right now. If we now put long bonds on the market, 10, 20 or even 30 years, we will leave that interest on it. We do not then close down through receiver swaps to those seven-year interest rates. That's how we do everything you want us to do. We are doing so within the framework of the policy framework that was established at the time. That was possible then, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u13	The question remains when this evaluation is planned. Is the Minister prepared to speed it up and possibly anticipate this low interest rate in order to obtain a more favourable arrangement for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u14	I have to come back to that in second place. I don't know exactly when that evaluation is scheduled. Mr Merkies has asked a number of questions about Greece which I will go off staccato. Who invented this technical extension? It was conceived in the Eurogroup, because we have had to conclude the current programme on 1 January. There was a long list of reforms which had yet to be implemented and which had to be carried out by the Greek Parliament. In the current political circumstances, this became more and more difficult; you also noticed that the political agenda in Greece was increasingly drawing attention, making it increasingly difficult to move forward with the reform. What's that got to do with? Of course, that has to do with the presidential elections in February. Is the extension now technical or political? It's a technical extension. Nothing changes about the program, there will be no more money and there will be no new conditions. There are simply two months to try to close the program by 1 March or on the last day of February. So in that sense, it's technical. The reason for this is political; we do not need to be very complicated about it. Political conditions are making it impossible to conclude at the moment. That is why we have also said that there is no more payment and no more loan, because there was another loan ready. The same applies to the IMF, where large loans are also available. Everything is in the fridge until Greece takes its steps again and fulfills its commitments. They now have two months left to do so. So it's a technical extension with a political background. Why didn't you tell me before? Why did you decide so late? Quite frankly, I wanted to keep the pressure on it. That is why I did not say in that AO Ecofin that a technical extension could also be a possibility. I wanted to keep the pressure on the trial until the very last minute. Until the very last moment, steps have also been taken to make further agreements between the troika and the Greek authorities. That pressure is important, so we learn this process. Of course, we knew that it could be technically extended, because it is just a technical possibility. However, I did not want to talk about it until the Troika finally said that it will not succeed until 1 January. In this way, we have reached a decision, at least a decision, because you still have to agree with it. Can one borrow longer? The program takes longer. So the last outstanding loan, a limited loan of 1.7 billion, is still standing. The maturity of the repayment of loans shall be subject to fixed instalments. So that period will undoubtedly also be two months longer. Does it have anything to do with elections? Yeah, indirectly. You just notice that it became increasingly difficult to get things done with the Greek parliament as well. Has there been any mention of the presidential election? Yes. Why were the elections brought forward? That is a decision of the Greek Government itself, but we were told at the beginning of that meeting that they had that intention. This has led me to propose a limited extension at that meeting; then, in principle, we should be open for business again in February and we should be able to work on the finalisation of the programme again. That's how we got here in two months. Was it Samaras' idea? In the Greek state system, there seems to be an opportunity to bring forward the presidential elections. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u15	There was therefore a direct relationship between the technical extension and the elections. So this is not about the fact that it takes two months longer to dot the i, but then it is about the election. Then I do not fully understand what the underlying objective is. Let me just open it up. So what is the underlying objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u16	The underlying objective is to complete the programme in full. There is also no willingness on the part of the Eurogroup to discuss any ECCLs that are of a different nature without proper completion of the programme. I will come to that in a moment, because Mr Merkies has asked for it. The proper completion of the programme is therefore our aim. I couldn't. That also had a political background in Athens. We don't have to be very complicated about that. Moreover, the Greek Government itself has decided to try to keep the political uncertainty as short as possible and to bring forward the presidential elections. At that time, as a Eurogroup, we said that we would extend the programme by two months, so that the programme could be completed properly after the presidential elections. That is what we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u17	Surely the Minister understands that this has an impact on democracy there? Otherwise, the presidential elections would have been later. There will then be a time when the new aid package will have to be negotiated. Of course, that has a certain impact on the Samaras government. Samaras likes it when the moods are there right now. Are you deliberately or unconsciously interfering with this, I do not consciously think that the democratic relations in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u18	No, not at all. Mr Merkies is meddling in Greece's internal considerations. It's not up to us. If the Greek Government has that power, and if it thinks it makes sense to postpone the presidential elections, we are not talking about that at all. If we are informed of this, we will take this into account in the question of whether we should end the programme indefinitely, without a proper completion, or offer the shortest possible technical extension. That decision was, of course, taken partly on the basis of the information we receive from Greece. Our first assumption was that the presidential election would be in February. That was the deadline, if I understand correctly. We were considering whether the extension should be until one month before the presidential elections, until the middle of the presidential elections or until then. Our assessment is that the Greek government and Parliament must be prepared to take further steps. The reform agenda must be resumed as soon as possible, but we have been freezing it for two months now. That is a derivative of the political choice made in Athens. It was not made by the euro group. There have been statements by Mr Juncker, of which I have noted. Is there pressure on Parliament? Well, not from Europe. That would also be wrong in principle. The Greek elections are a Greek matter. The Greek people will decide for themselves which politicians want it in the government. That is not up to Brussels or Brussels politicians. Mr Merkies asked for the extension of the Hellenic Fund. This is a fund which is part of the programme and which is intended for the restructuring, refinancing and recapitalisation of banks. I see, however, that Mr Merkies wants to deepen the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u19	The minister went over Juncker's statements very quickly. I imagine he may have been somewhat cautious to say something about Juncker's statements. But Juncker did say something there. He said he liked to see familiar faces. He's talking about extreme powers he'd rather not have. How does the Minister take that? What do he think they are? What are these extreme powers? Who are these familiar faces?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u20	I have no idea. Mr Merkies will have to ask Mr Juncker who his faces are in Athens.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u21	Doesn't the Minister at least wonder? It is remarkable that someone makes such statements and possibly insinuates something. Doesn't the Minister at least wonder if he doesn't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u22	No, I'm not wondering either. I do know that I believe that every election in Europe is an election of the local population, in this case the people of Greece, not the eurogroup and the European Commission, nor the House of Representatives in the Netherlands. The Greek people themselves choose a new government. We are always talking about a new government here, but that is still very much the question. It's a presidential election. If it succeeds in electing a new president, there will be no parliamentary election at all. The democratic process - this is a neutral remark, I say to Mr Koolmees - is simply intended to elect a new President. That, I believe, is not a political statement. Then Mr Merkies asked in this series about the banking fund. There is still an amount in the order of 10 or 11 billion; I do not have it ready now. A small part of this is probably still needed for the restructuring of the cooperative, smaller banks. We don't know for sure yet, but it's being held back in that light. Because we have extended the programme for two months, we have logically said: then we will also make that fund available for two months. Its duration has therefore also been extended for two months. Mr Merkies asked what would have happened if we had not. The fund would have continued to exist, but the funds still available would have flowed back to the ESM...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u23	The ESF.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u24	The ESF? Agreed. In this series of questions, Mr Merkies asked whether we could not have done better in 2010 for debt cancellation. No, I very much believe that those countries that borrow from each other should also repay those loans. I also believe that, in conjunction with the programme, substantial improvements in the functioning of the economy and government have been made in Greece. That's not ready. In that sense, the programme has really made sense. I saw a message today that the Greek national bank, in line with the European Commission, is expecting strong economic growth next year. The budget is also in good shape again with a primary surplus, which will increase even further next year. Mr Merkies asked whether the debt is sustainable. I don't know the last number, but at least it's way too high. As Mr Merkies knows, it has to go back to 120%. He also asked when the prognosis will come. The final debt analysis will not take place until the programme is completed. If the troika has concluded the last review, a debt sustainability analysis shall be carried out on the basis of that assessment. Then I can answer the question as to whether the objective of the programme to bring debt to the sustainable path is feasible. Mr Merkies owes me the last debt figure for the second term, because I cannot find it so quickly. Oh, I see it right here. In the autumn forecast of the European Commission, the debt ratio is estimated at 175.5. Mr Merkies said 177; with a slight difference in rounding we must give the full points. Mr Nijboer asked about the two conditions for Greece, on which I very much agree. The reform of the tax administration needs to be continued. Technical assistance is also continuing. It is not the case that the programme is still in that respect. Our support, and that of other countries, is continuing. The same applies to the fight against corruption. The task force in Greece is working on this with the Greeks. We will continue to insist on that. I just think I'm out of line with that. Mr Van Dijck asked when our policy framework will be revised in 2015. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u25	I assume you have another question, Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u26	Yeah, I have a bit of a technical question about the post-tax. I was just about to put it, but then the Minister moved on to another subject. In the reply I read that this year we would get 209 million and next year 252 million back from this post-tax. Why don't I see that in the Navy Note? I do see the 1.1 billion that the Minister is going to pay, but I do not see anywhere the 209 million that we would receive from the European Commission this year and next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u27	I can't answer that question like that. We didn't get the message until late. The Commission has said that on the basis of the amounts received this year, it will give the total back to the Member States, with a different distribution key. That's 209 million for the Netherlands. The rest will come in next year; we will get it back. I don't think it's in the Navy's note yet. If Mr Van Dijck wants to know more about it, I can come back to it in the second term if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u28	The amount that the Minister intends to pay is well known, but not the amount that we may get back. I would also like to mention 252 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u29	That just has to do with time. The amount we have to pay was known before. It's been incorporated into the Navy's Note. The amount that we get back has only turned out to be later and has not yet been included in the Autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u30	Are we going to get another change on that or are we going to get it on the next step in the cycle?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u31	It will certainly be reflected in the accounts at the end of 2014. We have, of course, notified it in writing to the Chamber, because that is the agreement: if any changes are made after the autumn note, they will be notified in writing to the Chamber. That applies to all departments. In this case, we have done so in separate letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u32	All questions have been answered except one, namely what effects the rejection of the bill on vertical integration in the First Chamber has for the budgets of the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u33	A letter was requested in the course of the work. I assumed that the cabinet would have the opportunity to answer this question in that letter. In general terms, the state of course is that this bill would have entered into force on 1 January 2016. There may be parts that need to be put into effect sooner. We shall look into this in more detail in the letter. I had understood that this would be allowed in that letter. Perhaps it is good to deal with two more amendments; then I am quite ready. The amendment in part No. 4 by Mr Merkies concerns the 100 million in education. Mr Merkies wants to spend this amount in primary education. That is a sympathetic goal, but the underexhaustment remains well within the end of the year margin and remains available for OCW. We should not think ad hocly about what we are going to spend this money on. Mr Merkies's amendment to item No. 3 looks forward to not paying the European post-tax. I think I've been sufficiently clear about that. The Netherlands also has to keep its agreements and that is why we will pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u34	There is also the amendment to item No. 5 by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u35	This is also seen in the non-payment of the European post-tax, so I would also advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u36	This has put an end to the government's first-term response. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term already announced. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Merkies of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u37	Chairman. I thank the Minister for the many answers I have received. As far as OCW is concerned, I had also asked the question as to why it seems that OCW's money is always on the shelf. Apparently, this happens a little more at OCW than in other departments. I can't wait to see what that's all about. I am, of course, sticking to the amendment, with cover similar to that used last year by the coalition and the beloved opposition partners, as it is called. The amendment on post-taxation remains in place. I would stress that it can indeed be said that the quality of Eurostat will be fine. Eurostat has been playing for a long time; I wonder when it will really get off the ground. I have asked most of the questions about Greece. Many of them have already been answered. The minister doesn't really go into the story about Juncker. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution on this matter. Before I do that, I would like to make a few small points. I understand that raising the vote on the President was discussed at the conciliation meeting on 8 December last. I cannot escape the impression that this is not just from the Greeks. I cannot imagine the Greeks suddenly saying that they want to bring that vote forward. Did the Greeks really just come up with that idea all of a sudden? Then why did they come up with that idea? Finally, a comment on the Hellenic Fund. If the Minister says that they want to keep the money in front of the banks, he actually says that he wants to keep it available for supporting Greek banks. Is that what he's saying here? I am somewhat concerned about that. I've talked about the Greek zombie banks before. To what extent is that effective? Finally, I submit my motion. The motion concerns Juncker's statements. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the President of the European Commission expressed the hope that the Greeks would not vote 'wrong';]] [[noting that he also said that he would not want "extreme powers" to come to power and that he would prefer to remain "known faces";]] [[states that it is undesirable for the President of the European Commission to give voting opinions in elections held in one of the Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34085-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u38	I have a question for Mr Merkies. Would it not be wiser to table this motion in Strasbourg? For example, Mr De Jong, who is a Member of the European Parliament, can do so. Mr Juncker can address him directly. Mr Merkies is now submitting his motion to the Dutch Parliament. Is it not an idea for the SP to table this motion in Brussels or Strasbourg?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u39	This is typical of Mr Koolmees' party. D66 would rather do anything in Strasbourg. However, I believe that we too can have an opinion on this. I think it is important that the democratic process is guaranteed in all countries and that a President of the European Commission is far from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u40	The European Parliament controls the European Commission and also has the opportunity to call Mr Juncker to the Parliament to address him. Representatives of the SP also sit in the European Parliament. Isn't it a good idea to launch the motion there instead of here?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u41	They can do that there too, but I say to Mr Koolmees: you have an opinion on that yourself, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u42	Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. I would like to thank the Minister, and through him all his staff, for the detailed answer to the questions of the Chamber in this year's last financial debate. I will come back to one point, namely the guarantee arrangements. The Minister was right to point out that a large part of the guarantees have already been reduced. These are mainly crisis-related measures. It is in line with this time frame that we are reducing this. What I was working on was that in this year's note, one guarantee went out, the 113 million of the BIS. I am afraid that we will have to do it occasionally with a small guarantee "small" in this case: in this case, EUR 100 million, with which the amount of EUR 200 billion goes even further. In this respect, I have fortunately had the answer from the Minister I wanted, namely that the two major chunks in the departments of VWS and van Wonen and Rijksdienst are still being evaluated. On what time does the Minister expect these evaluations to come? The Court will then be able to understand further what guarantees are still needed and what could possibly be brought further down there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u43	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the "to the point" answers we have had to our questions, both written questions and first-term questions. I hope that the Minister of Finance will be able to come back to the question of exactly what is happening at the AIVD and whether the same year-end margin applies to it if it appears to exist in the field of education. Of course, it does not fall within 1%, because the AIVD budget is slightly smaller than that of education. That's even lucky, I guess... Of course there's trust. The Minister knows that I have neither tabled a motion of censure nor any plan to do so. However, Article 68 of the Constitution is clear: oral and written information is provided, even to one Member of Parliament, if requested. The reason why this has been requested is that the Finance Minister said on 24 October for the NOS cameras: apparently a table has been set up on the Internet without prior notification to the Member States, so we are surprised. It was that statement that made us ask about the memo of October 17th. There was every reason to do so, because there had been a report to the Member States, albeit informally. There are two points on which I would like to return and which I would like to refer to the Chamber. The first is on state loans. I am pleased that the Minister indicates that he is trying to finance a little longer within the framework and not to kick it back to seven years. I think that is very wise, also in view of what Mr Van Dijck said. Nevertheless, I would like to challenge the Minister to look at it a little more fundamentally, without us here in the Lower House now running the treasury of the Ministry of Finance, the Agency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government's interest on government loans is at the lowest level in over 500 years;]] [[considers that the financing of the sovereign debt should be robust for shocks;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate within one month whether it considers it appropriate to finance the debt longer through long-term loans and to make less use of the money market and derivatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34085-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u44	When it comes to'shocks', you should also think of shocks in the financial markets, as they are now occurring in certain places. It is therefore a research motion that could perhaps be involved in a somewhat early evaluation of the policy framework. Indeed, we have a difference of opinion with the government as to whether you are looking at excise duties horizontally or vertically or in any way. I do not need to repeat that discussion, but in our view there is simply a setback of 300 million. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that excise revenue in 2014 is EUR 300 million lower than previously estimated;]] [[Whereas this is due, in particular, to the fact that filling across borders is more advantageous and that the state cash and pump holders in the border area are thus failing in their turnover;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in excise duties on diesel and LPG introduced in 2014.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Merkies, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34085-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u45	Mr. Chairman. It is incomprehensible that the PvdA spokesperson does not want a second term in the examination of the Navy Note. He's okay with it all, like this. The recovery is fragile, which is also confirmed by the CPB. It is not time for a hallelujah vote, because why do we have recovery at all? These are exceptional circumstances which are beneficial for the Netherlands. The price of the euro is at 1.25 very low, the oil price dropped below 60 dollars today, as Mr Omtzigt said, the interest rate is 0.8% lowest in 500 years, and inflation is 0.4%, i.e. almost zero. The CPB is based on a euro rate of 1.33, an oil price of 100 dollars, an interest rate of 1.5% and an inflation rate of 1% for 2014. What does it mean for our household booklet if these figures are corrected on the basis of current, exceptionally low positions? What does the purchasing power look like? And what if the oil price goes back to $100? The expectation is that it will rise again next year. What does that mean for purchasing power, energy prices, VAT revenues, excise duties and gas revenues? This is good for income, but the weather is bad for consumption. What does this mean for the 2015 budget? Can the Minister give us a look at that? Or is it perhaps useful to see what happens to consumption in the expected stocks for 2015? Is the Cabinet prepared to anticipate that? The PVV still considers it a missed chance that the burden will not be reduced now in order to stimulate recovery. The cabinet is sticking to the current course and thus depressing the recovery, rather than encouraging it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that taxes will be increased again in 2015;]] [[Whereas collective burdens have increased sharply in recent years, which has seriously undermined purchasing power;]] [[Whereas increased consumption and domestic consumption are essential to promote economic growth;]] [[calls on the government to reduce taxes and excise duties and to seek cover for this in mega-expenditure on development aid, European Union, asylum and immigration and grants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34085-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u46	If I have time, I'd like to file another motion. It's about the ridiculous increases in excise duties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the increases in excise duties on fuel, alcohol and tobacco are disastrous for border regions and employment;]] [[Whereas the price of petrol in the Netherlands is the highest in Europe;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to further increase excise duties on fuel and tobacco on 1 January 2015;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34085-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u47	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his prompt and clear response, which was very to the point. I watched the clock. The answer in the first period lasted 45 minutes. In my view, this has not occurred in the last ten years when an autumn note is being discussed. It was a very short answer in the first term, very staccato. I would like to thank the Minister for answering specific questions, particularly with regard to defence and EZ budgets. The EZ budget is about money from the energy agreement. These can indeed be taken into account in the year-end margin. My group assumes that these resources will be retained for the purposes we have set, if the business case is finally worked out properly. The Minister said about the tax review: there is no question that we are taking a step. I think that is the beginning of a positive development. I'm very curious. D66 will continue to encourage the Minister on a number of occasions to shape the tax reform quickly and ambitiously. The so-called "four presidents' report" has been delayed. That is a pity, but it is understandable, given the new Commission and Mr Juncker's investment plan. D66 believes that the link to European reforms is sensible. However, I do have one supplementary question. Is it also intended to announce EU-wide reforms in the growth agenda, so that it is not just about the Member States, but also about European markets and product and goods markets? I hope that this is indeed the intention, because that would give a new dimension to this debate in Europe. I welcome the suggestion that Mr Nijboer and I have had some influence on dividend policy through our motion. I'll just put it in my pocket! I wish the Minister and his officials a good and quiet recess and I thank them for the great work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u48	This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he can respond directly to the motions and answer the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u49	Mr. Chairman. The first question is from Mr Merkies: why does OCW always keep money on the shelf? This year, that's 100 million and in 2012 and 2013 it was about 230 million. This is a large amount, but it is also limited compared to the entire budget of 35 billion. Also in previous years it remained within the end of the year margin and the money remained available for education. It just came to spending later. Mr Merkies once again talked about the link between the early elections in Greece and the decision of the Eurogroup. There is this coherence, but only after the Greek Government itself indicated that the elections would be brought forward because the political instability had to be as short as possible. That seems to me to be a legitimate consideration, but it is up to the Greeks themselves. We then decided that a period of two months should be sufficient to complete the programme. Mr Merkies noted that the money is apparently needed for Greek banks. In principle, that is not the case. The large banks have been vetted and have received from the ECB the same three to six-month timeline to meet their capital ratios, just like all other banks that still have deficits. The Greek banks must therefore take up the capital market themselves. By the way, they have been successful in this and I hope they are again. The resources will therefore remain available. The only thing we know with greater certainty is that a number of smaller banks in Greece have not been included in the ECB's review and may need to be restructured. This also involves much smaller amounts. It is expected that, if not the vast majority of the money currently available in the banking fund, a fairly substantial amount will "residence" at the end of the programme period. Mr Harbers asked when an evaluation of the guarantee arrangements would take place. It is foreseen in the first half of 2015, i.e. in time for the spring decision-making. I am committed to that; then I get to see all the ministers again, and that is always a good time to talk about the guarantee arrangements. I'm going to do that structuralally. It is therefore no longer just about income and expenditure, but also about guarantee schemes, guarantee schemes, etc. We're going to have a tighter seat on that, too. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the AIVD. He feared that the under-exhaustment of the AIVD would be too small, but of course it runs along with the under-exhaustment at BZK. In that sense, it is large enough, because the 2014 mandate had already been fulfilled by government agreement, but was later reversed. He's got a point right there. This money is now being used to reset the mission for later years. The money remains available for the AIVD. Mr Omtzig spoke again about information on the post-taxation from Brussels and about who said what when. I'm gonna leave that theme behind from now on. Mr Omtzigt also spoke about the financing of public debt. He has also tabled a motion on this, so I shall come back to that in a moment. Mr Van Dijck kept the classic story, as in the first term: if things go badly with the Netherlands, it is entirely the fault of the cabinet and if things get better, it cannot be thanks to the cabinet. He is in good company, because the Volkskrant opened this or last week with the headline "The economy is better now, but not thanks to the cabinet." According to De Volkskrant and Mr Van Dijck, they are in total agreement, which in itself is an interesting and remarkable fact that the economy is now improving thanks to low oil prices and the decline in the euro. It is of course true that both have a positive effect on our exports and purchasing power in the Netherlands and that energy prices are low. That is true in itself, but that is a small part of the extra economic growth that the CPB provides. The CPB has slightly revised the forecast for economic growth for next year. I thought we were still in the Millions Note at 1.25%. Meanwhile, the CPB is at 1.5% for next year. Some of them will undoubtedly be euros and low oil prices, which I would like to give to Mr Van Dijck, but much lies, I say without too much false modesty, also simply to the fact that we have put structural problems in order in the Netherlands. We have put solid ground back in the housing market. The air inside it, which Mr Van Dijck systematically denies, is now out. You can see the recovery is continuing. The number of homes that go hand-to-hand increases per month. Prices are high in many regions. You can see the structural recovery throughout the economy. This has little to do with something that has emerged in recent months, namely that the euro has started to fall. This structural recovery has already started.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u50	It may also have to do with the fact that interest rates are low. They're external factors. That interest rates are very low, stimulates the housing market a bit. The housing market had fallen so far away. I sometimes compare it to a forest that burned down. Then when you see a couple of green chips, you say, "Hey, thanks to the fact that I burned it down, we now have green chips." For example, the housing market was on apegaps with a fall in prices of 25% and 1.5 million people under water. Don't come up with the story that government policy has caused us to see a little green blade in that burned-down forest. De Volkskrant took over what the CPB says. The CPB says that people with low wage increases can still afford a little more consumption because of low inflation and because prices are low. The fact that the price of oil is so low has its impact. We can see that in gas and oil prices and at the pump. Come on, let's get some gas in here. Maybe the Minister isn't going to fill up that much anymore, but the fueling in the Netherlands is a lot more pleasant than it was a month ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u51	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u52	I would like to say that it is external factors, inflation, the euro rate, interest rates, oil prices, which ensure that consumers have a little more to spend. The cabinet could also ensure that consumers have a little more to spend. That would be good for domestic spending. The fact that domestic spending will contribute more to growth next year than this year has everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u53	Mr Van Dijck needs a lot of words to say that everything that has gone bad is due to cabinet policy, but that it cannot be up to cabinet policy to do better now. That's his point of view. As far as the housing market is concerned, it is up to parties like the PVV to say something about this. The PVV would have planned to continue to walk through the dense forest with a pack of matches, with the dry grass on the ground, just as long until it goes wrong for once. It has gone well, but this has been due to very unwise policies that have been pursued and defended for years. I am referring in particular to the mortgage interest deduction. That house prices would collapse once, everyone saw coming and was predicted everywhere. It happened, and then you have to put your head in order, and don't dive and look away. Mr Koolmees asked for EU-wide reforms. As far as I'm concerned, they're definitely in there. There are many opportunities for co-ordinated reform between Member States, but a number of European reforms can also be pursued. Now there are simply full percentage points of economic growth, because the services market is still completely sold and there are still thousands of professions in all kinds of countries that are not open to newcomers. There are great opportunities in the energy market in Europe, and there are great opportunities in the digital economy. We have to get that percentage point increase. I also hope that a number of international trade agreements will be completed and approved by the European Parliament, and that it will not remain in that cramp and say that there are bad things in it or things that it is critical of and that Parliament will therefore be dragging the whole treaty into the brink of ruin. I'm just saying because I'm a little worried about that. I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. 3 by Mr Merkies, on the statements made by Mr Juncker. I have circled the words "wrong," "extreme" and "known": it is about wrong voices, extreme powers and familiar faces. Mr Merkies asked me what Mr Juncker meant by this. Of course, I don't know. In itself, it is always unwise to vote wrong. Extreme powers are never good, although I don't know exactly what "extreme" means here. I'm a moderate-left politician myself, so I'm not much for extremism. As far as the familiar faces are concerned, I also know the foreman of Syria, so that is a familiar face, for Mr Juncker too, I think. I think this was also a neutral remark. All in all, I have not found that Mr Juncker has given a voting opinion. That's why I think the motion is superfluous and I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u54	If the Minister argues in this way, he can also say that it is neutral to say that it is undesirable for the President of the European Commission to give voting advice in national elections. That seems very neutral to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u55	But then the next motion says that it is very undesirable for the President of the European Commission to make discriminatory statements. That's true, too. But that would also be an unnecessary motion. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u56	Thank you. Please proceed to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u57	I come to Mr Omtzigt's motion for a resolution. 4. calling on the government to speed up the evaluation of the policy framework that we have and to review it within one month. I can't do that, and I'm not gonna do that to the Agency. Those people are on Christmas vacation, too. We are going to review the policy again in 2015. Then I ask the Chamber again for four years' mandate for the Agency to conduct the policy. I would like to warn you that we are going to change the Agency's policy on an ad hoc basis from the Chamber. We will take it up as soon as possible in 2015. Then we will come back to you and ask for a new four-year mandate to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u58	What's the plan? When's the new note coming to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u59	Let me see if you can indicate the month in which we can expect this from the lodge. Look, they're definitely putting up a number of fingers. It's about June.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u60	I see seven fingers, so they mean July.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u61	Sure, but I'm dealing with the answers here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u62	I took a month off to meet Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u63	You're actually talking about the answers. I thought maybe you didn't see it right. So I thought I'd say it. There were a lot of people there. Then you can add it all together. You're gonna come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u64	I was actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u65	Content.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u66	...luckily surprised at the Minister's math. If he can do it on time in June, in the first week, so that it can also be treated... No, the point is that we can determine it before the summer recess. That's what it was all about. If he could take these points, I'd be very contented. Then I can also hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u67	Let us just agree that we strive to have it discussed and established before the summer. That's in my best interest, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u68	It also looks at the points I mentioned, namely whether it can be done with fewer derivatives and a longer debt? Let that be one of the options that will then be examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u69	It will re-establish the Agency's entire policy. It is also about capital instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u70	Did I understand correctly that then the motion in part No. 4 is under arrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u72	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (34085, No. 4) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u73	In the motion in part No. 5 is requested to reverse the increase in excise duties on diesel and LPG introduced in 2014. This would mean a loss of 0.3 billion. The motion is not covered. I have to dissuade her. In Mr Van Dijck's motion to item No. 6 The government is invited to reduce taxes and excise duties and to seek cover for this in the mega-expenditure on development aid, European Union, asylum and immigration and grants. This is a well-known position of the PVV, also consistently driven from its election programme. It is not the policy of the Dutch cabinet. It is certainly not in the interest of the Netherlands either. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Also the motion in part No. 7 belongs to Mr Van Dijck. It calls on the government to refrain from increasing excise duties on fuel and tobacco. This motion is also not covered. I would like to waive all taxes, but unfortunately that is not possible. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I think I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u74	Then I have to say, just to be sure, that it was certainly not my intention to give you answers. I just wanted to be helpful. You've done a good job of repairing it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-21.u75	The votes on the motions and amendments tabled will take place next Thursday evening.
