ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u1	I welcome again the Secretary of State for Finance and first of all give the floor to Mrs Neppérus of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. The treaty before us is important. What the VVD wants, probably with all the parties here, is to ensure that tax legislation is complied with and that taxes payable are paid. So I think it's okay that there's such a piece. After all, you have to prevent fraud and deal with abuses. However, if I look at the way it is worked out, I will get into some trouble. I must also say that I am speaking on behalf of Mr Omtzigt of the CDA Group. I have spoken on behalf of the President on several occasions, but on this point I also speak on behalf of Mr Omtzigt. So it's about the effect. What I run into is that according to Anglo-Saxon law, which is different from Dutch law, people born of Dutch parents in America always keep the nationality of the United States. Suddenly they also have to do with this treaty, even if their parents lived there, for example, they were babies and they moved again when they were three or four years old. They're always American anyway. I have the feeling that they are going to have to deal with this treaty anyway. In addition, there are currently banks that approach their clients with the question of whether they are American or not. For example, ING has done so. There may be another reason for this, but there is a great deal of confusion when that sort of thing happens. I think we really need to see how we can make sure that people can just have and keep an account at a bank, especially when they say that their whole life has been concentrated on the Netherlands. I would like to have a reaction to that, because I think that is very important. I have another question in connection with this: the treaty was also signed by then Minister Timmermans, namely how to get rid of that American nationality. That is not a tax problem, but it has to do with this treaty. I hear you'll have to report it retroactively in a few years' time, even if it's clear that the whole accent of your life is in the Netherlands. I would also like to see a response on that. I am just saying that I am considering a motion on the issue of the people who were born there or the people with a very strong relationship with US-person.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. The U.S. is tackling tax evasion thoroughly. In a child's play, the United States prevents US taxpayers from keeping bank accounts out of the sight of the tax authorities and thus evades their tax obligations. Every financial institution has to report on American customers how much they have in bank accounts. If they do not, 30% tax will be deducted from the revenue from the United States. Like I said, it's childishly simple. The treaty worked like a crowbar to get a shot at black-sparing. However, it also seems that it brings with it some unintended and unwanted effects. I'll start with reciprocity. The United States has committed itself to achieving a fully equivalent level of data exchange. In other words, the United States is trying to give us just as much data on Dutch citizens with accounts and other financial assets, so that we too can tax money that may be out of sight at the moment. That's not an unnecessary luxury. After all, we all know that the American state of Delaware is known for its banking secrecy. However, this pursuit of an equivalent level of data exchange sounds a little non-binding. This would allow the necessary legislation to be shot down in the US Parliament. The promise of "targeting" is then fulfilled, but we will be empty-handed. Why didn't the Secretary of State force the United States to agree to exchange as much information with us as the other way around? Not only are we, but also the United States itself, benefiting from the entry into force of the new data exchange standard. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Fortunately, it seems that the United States is taking their promise seriously and has ordered the US Department of Finance to work out regulations. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether progress has been made and, if so, is he prepared to inform us of progress? We also read that the scope of the reporting obligations for the Netherlands is much greater than for the United States. Is that permanent? If not, when will this scope be the same for the Netherlands and the United States? Does this only happen when the Common Reporting Standard is introduced? Why didn't the Netherlands take a little more of this with regard to equivalent obligations for the United States? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Another point I am concerned about is the consequences for the so-called US persons, US taxpayers. Mrs Neppérus referred to this as well. That could be someone who lives in the Netherlands but was born in America and who has an American passport. We get several signals that they are excluded from certain financial services in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State answers questions that, for example, ING does not refuse customers on the basis of FATCA, but on the basis of other US legislation. What does the State Secretary then think of the following provision: "Account holder is a resident of the Netherlands at the time of entering into the relationship with the bank. In addition, account holder is not also resident or citizen of the United States of America (US person).' This provision comes from ASN, but similar provisions can be found in other banks. Isn't that just a discriminatory provision? This excludes people of American nationality from providing services. I have already asked questions about this in connection with BinckBank's refusal of customers. Are you allowed to exclude customers from services offered on the basis of their citizenship? That is literally what the text says. Can the Secretary of State clarify this once and for all? Does it also matter whether it concerns new customers or existing ones? Does the Secretary of State agree with the claim that neither FATCA nor US tax laws require banks to cancel customer services? Are there any more signals from the Secretary of State about financial institutions that Americans refuse on the basis of their nationality? Are there any signals from other countries that U.S. people are being refused? When these persons are refused on the basis of their nationality, according to the College of Human Rights, that is a prohibited distinction. Is there also a prohibited distinction when so-called US individuals are refused due to other US legislation in the field of investment? Is it also possible that banks will refuse customers by FATCA, but then rely on the other legislation? What does the Secretary of State do when he gets signals that US individuals are denied? Is he willing to perform? In response to written questions on this subject, the State Secretary indicated that the Ministry of Finance would then appeal to the institution concerned if it appeared necessary. Then the question is, of course, what does he mean by "if it turns out to be necessary"? Can the Secretary of State state state what criteria he applies in this regard? FATCA is also seen as a model for the Common Reporting Standard, the international standard for information exchange to combat tax evasion. However, there are a number of important differences. For example, there is a sanction mechanism attached to FATCA. Can the Secretary of State confirm that these agreements are still lacking within the CRS (Common Reporting Standard)? A so-called multilateral competent authority agreement has been agreed. Within this multilateral agreement, which has now joined some 50 countries, countries can choose which countries to exchange information with. There is talk of a kind of dating room in which all these countries are in. Only when countries in that dating room have a date with each other will information be exchanged, so not automatically, as you would expect. In addition, you can also say whether you prefer only to receive information. As the Common Reporting Standard is now stated, he's very non-committal. Here too, there is also the question of reciprocity. At European level, stricter agreements have been made in the directive on administrative cooperation, i.e. the administrative assistance directive. In this respect, reciprocity is well regulated and banks are simply obliged to provide the necessary information. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see where to tighten up the Common Reporting Standard? Is he prepared to argue internationally that the Common Reporting Standard is at least as strict as what was agreed in the Administrative Assistance Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that tax evasion and fraud are being tackled. The treaty between the Netherlands and America promotes fiscal transparency to prevent tax evasion and fraud. However, we still have a number of questions. The Americans are forcing their citizens to press charges in the U.S. no matter where they live. Are there any other countries where that happens? As the Secretary of State rightly pointed out in the explanatory statement, it is, of course, the right of America to do so, but are there other countries? In fact, I can imagine that a lot of Turks are going to pay taxes in Turkey if Turkey has such a system. The US now intends to require financial institutions to report to the IRS (internal Revenue Service). If they do not, a withholding tax of 30% on income from America will be deducted. Can a foreign tax administration here just enforce a withholding tax on financial institutions? Is that some kind of transaction tax? That's what it looks like. Everything that is paid from America towards the Netherlands is taxed 30%. Can the Netherlands also levy such a withholding tax on, for example, American institutions as they refuse to report to the Dutch tax authorities? Is there any form of reciprocity in this treaty? However, this is not for the Netherlands, because the Netherlands has opted for model contract 1. That is a good thing in itself, because then the exchange of information takes place between the authorities and not between institutions and authorities. Now that financial institutions with model agreement 1 are exempt from withholding tax, they are still obliged to register with the IRS, I read. Why is this registration still mandatory? Doesn't this treaty make registration unnecessary? If they do pass on data to the Dutch tax authorities, why do they have to register with the IRS again? And should financial institutions in America also register with Dutch tax authorities? There too, there is a measure of reciprocity. If we are talking about reciprocity, the US has promised to legislate for this reciprocity, but that has not yet been settled. Mr Merkies has already mentioned this. The Netherlands is going to provide much more data to the IRS than the other way around. Why don't you just cross over right away? Why not wait until reciprocity on both sides is equally settled? All the more so because the OECD is working on a Common Reporting Standard, which is very similar to this Model Convention. Do we have to change the law again when the CRS becomes the standard? Will the CRS replace the FATCA model? Or do they stand next to each other, where CRS applies to the whole world except America? I'd like an answer to this. I also read on page 4 of the explanatory statement that if more financial institutions are FATCA-proof, the number of non-participant financial institutions will be reduced. That seems logical to me, but that does mean that the participating financial institutions are less likely to have to include a withholding tax of 30% towards non-participant financial institutions. Are the financial institutions, the banks, then obliged to levy a withholding tax on the transactions they have with non-participant financial institutions? Or are the US authorities holding the withholding tax? I read a bit further that this treaty saves banks in the Netherlands a lot of money, because they do not have to build systems to levy withholding tax. Without this treaty, was it intended that Dutch banks would levy withholding tax? This Treaty applies only to the Netherlands and the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. Why is not the Kingdom of the Netherlands involved in this treaty? Curaçao, St Maarten and Aruba are now excluded from this treaty and have to conclude a treaty with America themselves. That seems a little cumbersome to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u5	Mr. Chairman. The treaty we are talking about today is a semblance of financial imperialism from an economic world power. If America puts its fist on the table and wants to see all the data of its subjects, wherever they are, then they just get it. But we are talking here today about an imperialism of the good kind, because the FATCA "the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act" has opened the door to banking secrecy, even to Swiss banking secrecy. This shows that tax evaders are no longer safe even in the deepest shelters. The Labour Party can therefore agree to the present Convention for this reason. It is also a good thing that the Treaty regulates the mutual exchange of information and that this exchange does not take place via banks but through national tax authorities. This gives some better safeguards for privacy and it also saves administrative burdens. My question, and that is one of the few questions I should like to ask, is why it has taken so long for this law to come before Parliament. Indeed, the intergovernmental agreements on the elaboration, the so-called IGAs, had already been signed by both parties in December last year. Then why did it take another year for us to talk about it here? The Labour Party is pleased that the approach adopted by FATCA is also being followed more widely internationally. I am talking here about the Common Reporting Standard, which is being rolled out by the OECD worldwide and which is also highly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. Like the FATCA, the Common Reporting Standard should secure international data exchange on taxpayers. However, there are also differences with the FATCA. The first difference is that the Common Reporting Standard does not have a good sanction mechanism. The penalty for non-compliance with FATCA is a withholding charge for banks of 30% on all payments to US account holders. The final sanction is even withdrawal of the banking license in America. The effectiveness of this sanction has been demonstrated by the Swiss Wegelin bank, which refused to do so and eventually had to close its doors. A second difference with the FATCA is that it has a compelling bilateral effect, while the Common Reporting Standard is in fact based on consensus. So this too is a weaker and more non-committal approach than the American approach. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the Common Reporting Standard, which is proclaimed in the OECD and European context, should be given as sharp teeth as the FATCA. Europe can achieve that if it wants to. Let us be honest: the European Union represents an even bigger economic bloc than America. If Europe wants to show sharp teeth in dealing with tax avoidance and access to data, it can force that, just like the Americans. There is no international bank that can afford not to be present in Europe. So where there's a will, there's a way. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. However, I would first like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to advocate a FATCA-like approach at European level, with a sanctioning toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address three issues today: firstly, international developments in the fight against tax evasion; secondly, the importance of privacy and data protection; thirdly, the withdrawal of services to customers of American nationality. I believe that all my colleagues have spoken about that today. I will begin with the fight against tax evasion. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act has been an important step in the development of tackling tax evasion. The pressure on black savers has indeed increased worldwide. A European FATCA was immediately called for in Brussels and tax avoidance was high on the agenda in international fora. Work has been carried out towards automatic information exchange at global level. My colleagues have already said that the OECD presented the Common Reporting Standard, the CRS. This is similar to the model FATCA. Mr Groot has already explained a number of derogations. Another important difference is that the CRS has a multilateral effect, compared to the bilateral nature of the FATCA. Nor does it contain any sanctions. Can the Secretary of State give a tip of the veil on the further path in the OECD context? Is there indeed a global story in which, for example, the United States is also participating? Or should financial institutions work with different regimes for the exchange of tax information or of these data? I would also like to hear the answer to Mr Groot and Mr Merkies' question on the possible sanctions contained in it. A specific question is whether the Secretary of State is in a position to ensure that it cannot happen that the Netherlands receives information from a country that has not signed a treaty with the US itself, whereby the Netherlands then transmits that information through the ISA we are discussing today. I see the Secretary of State watching. He doesn't quite understand the question, so I'll repeat it. My question is whether, if a country has not signed a treaty with the US, but has a treaty or exchange with the Netherlands, it may happen that the Netherlands will forward that data to the US. I see the Secretary of State nodding, so I think he's gonna be fine. My second point is privacy. There will always be a tension between fighting injustice such as tax evasion and securing privacy-sensitive information for people acting in accordance with the law. This intergovernmental treaty with the United States concerns highly confidential information from many Dutch people. These are residents of the Netherlands with American nationality, or of the Dutch who live in America. The FATCA is an accomplished fact. We can find a lot of that. Mr Groot spoke of positive imperialism. However, there is little we can do about it. My group is very pleased that at least this convention regulates data protection. I do have some additional questions in this area. The Netherlands and the United States still need to agree on further rules on the security and protection of data to be exchanged. It should also specify what happens if incorrect or incorrect information has been provided and how access rights are handled. The Secretary of State stated in the note on the report that he was unable to lay down these rules before the Treaty entered into force, because the Americans were "too busy with other things." My group is concerned about this. Can the Secretary of State at least guarantee that the effective exchange of data to take place from September 2015 will not start before further rules have been agreed with the US? I'd like to get a reaction to that. My third point is the point that all my colleagues have already mentioned: banks that cancel out services. The objective of the bilateral agreement is to reduce the implementation burden on the financial sector. The Secretary of State states that he expects financial institutions to comply with their obligations under this Treaty without quitting the provision of services to the country. If that were to happen, he would appeal to the institution concerned. Mrs Neppérus has already indicated that she has also received signals that things are not going well in practice. I have already been able to see her motion; my group thinks it is a sympathetic motion. I look forward to hearing the Secretary of State's response on this point. I am also curious to see what has been done about the well-known cases of people who have been denied the service, even before this IGA was closed down. Has a solution been found and has it been properly handled? I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Finally, I have two questions. One. Why is a threshold of $50,000 in the Netherlands before reporting on this, whereas the US does not know this threshold and will exchange information from all Dutch residents' accounts regardless of the amount of the account balance? Two. How many people are we talking about? My group is curious about the scope of this treaty. Can the Secretary of State give an estimate of how many people the Tax Administration is about to exchange information with the Americans?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u7	I understand the Secretary of State is going to answer your questions directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u8	He's gonna try to do that, yeah. Mr. Chairman. There has been a great deal of discussion about the FATCA, also in the further report. It's always good to know what this isn't about. It's not about accepting the FATCA. That is not what we are talking about; that law is already there. Nor is it a matter of making American citizens liable to tax or having them report it. It's been a long time since the Indians had to do that. Nor is it the case that we place American citizens in the Netherlands with all kinds of administrative procedures, because this is purely between the US government and banks. What we are dealing with means that we are not really a party to any kind of banking system that protects banks from all kinds of unpleasant intervention on American soil, but also excludes the pension sector and insurers, reduces administrative burdens and guarantees privacy. As several speakers have said, this is ultimately something we want. Automatic data exchange has always been high on the Dutch wish list. We want that, too. We belong to the early adopter group of the Common Reporting Standard. If you look at the format, FATCA seems to be the brother of what we strive for with the Common Reporting Standard. Are we condemning people to report for their lives? We're not, anyway, because that's not what we're about, but it's always possible to get rid of American. You have to fill out a form for it. Exactly how long it takes, I haven't been able to figure it out, but I can. There is a mix between the various speakers about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u9	Mrs Neppérus has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u10	I have never had an American passport, but I do notice that people who are considering turning that nationality in a few years' time will have to report it and also have to pay a substantial amount to get rid of that passport that they were ever, coincidentally, born there from Dutch parents. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u11	Then they have gained benefits from their parents, which, by the way, many people on earth are longing for, but also disadvantages. The downside is that a U.S. citizen has to file a report every year, wherever he lives. If he didn't, then he's done something that's actually against his own law and he's a little naughty. He can get rid of that obligation by becoming a citizen. He would have to report back five or six years ago for the years he was a citizen. This means, in most cases, that he doesn't have to pay taxes at all, but he has to report it. There are all kinds of boundaries, stackings, regulations and treaties that often prevent him from paying taxes. However, he has to report it. There's nothing we can do about it. We can all find things out, as several speakers have already said, but we are not talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u12	We don't go there according to the Secretary of State, but it's striking that because of that Anglo-Saxon law, if you were born there and if your parents lived there, you're also just American. There may be far-reaching consequences for such a thing. Although it is not part of the Secretary of State's portfolio, I think it is a point of interest that people should report and pay a great deal of money to get rid of that nationality. I think this is a point of attention to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u13	I do not know whether this is a point of attention to the cabinet, because we do not have much to say about American legislation. I agree with Mrs Neppérus that it is a remarkable point. To answer Mr Van Dijk's question right away, there are not many countries that have arranged it this way. We do not know the tax systems of every country in the world, but there is only one case in which we know that it also regulates Eritrea. That is probably also the only agreement between America and Eritrea. Markant is it, that's a fact and we can't do much about it. Several speakers have outlined a different role for the Netherlands. Several speakers have made it clear that we do not have much to say about it. Even if the Netherlands had done nothing, then the FATCA still existed, the obligation, and then it was only more annoying for our banks. Even then, things were retroactive and had to be reported. It was just a matter between the United States, the citizen that matters and the bank. We are in principle outside of that. Several MPs ask why the Netherlands did not enforce this or that. Force has quite a few feet in the earth. If we are to 'cross the same lines', we must impose sanctions on American banks on our territory. We shall see in the speech whether this is really necessary. The funny thing is that everyone in the debate, including me, realizes that we don't have much to say about it, but that it is all the more powerful language that is being used. Several speakers put their fists on the table. Mr Groot had chosen other threatening words. There's a strong use of language. I will answer the questions in a moment. The first is about reciprocity.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u14	That was in a completely different context. I noticed that when America hits the table with the fists, the other countries jump in the attitude and deliver the data. My plea is correct: Europe could do the same as a superpower.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u15	I fully understand the question. I have heard the fists of the often soft-spoken Merkies three times and Mr Groot has shown his teeth in his speech. I'm about to answer the question. In the case of reciprocity, we will get the same as we give.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u16	Mr Merkies is still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u17	I only wanted to ask a question if the Secretary of State did not return to the account holders of American nationality at all. I've asked a lot of questions about that. Has this been completed yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u18	No, no, no, no, that's all...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u19	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u20	Then the Secretary of State moves on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u21	I'll answer your question. If they can still bank, several speakers have asked. I'll get to that. Reciprocity is a point that was raised rather early in the debate. Do we have to force that? The horizon model is just reciprocity, just because the Common Reporting Standard agrees reciprocity and that's where it goes. Americans can't do that now, because their law is still in parliament. But, Mr Merkies asks, what if it doesn't get through? Until the day before yesterday I would have said that American politics is perhaps even more erratic and miraculous than the Dutch, so I am not prepared for that kind of eventuality. However, it is the Americans' belief that this is going to be two-sided. That's what they're all set up for. There is still a legal framework to be laid down, but this reciprocity is simply going to come about. We have little doubt about that. It has also been repeated and repeatedly confirmed in talks with the Americans on this subject. By the way, we already have information exchange on request, not automatically. It is also completely reciprocal and we have never had a problem with it. So we simply expect the fists and the teeth to wait and that this will work out. But suppose you're a Dutchman who also has an American passport. Then you come to your bank, and then what happens? In any case, the grand banks have already confirmed that they are not going to oppose people who have an American passport in any way. They're not gonna do that based on FATCA. There are still a few niche banks that don't go along with that for the time being, but that is, in all honesty, a total rearguard fight. FATCA is not the identical twin brother but a good-like brother of the Common Reporting Standards. Everyone's gonna go along with that. So it's a pointless rearguard fight and you can react to it in different ways. My way would be to encourage but not oblige. We can introduce an acceptance obligation for niche banks in the Netherlands, but that is also a fairly far-fetched idea. If you can't go to a niche bank, it's not like you're devoid of gas and water, become homeless or can't find a bank anymore. There is a wide range of banks that can serve anyone. And that single niche bank that doesn't do that yet... I'm sure we won't be talking about this for some time, because everyone will come along. There are other cases, which are also mentioned by the various speakers and which have been addressed in the report. My impression is that the ASN example of Mr Merkies is also included. In these cases, it concerns other US legislation, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, which prevents Americans from entering certain types of investment products. That means that investment funds for those products ward off Americans. However, that is not on the table here. That's not about FATCA and it has nothing to do with normal banking services. It's a completely different case. All in all, therefore, I really have to answer Mr Merkies' question as to whether we can exclude people on the basis of nationality, with 'no'. People can be excluded on the basis of their tax position. These are American citizens, but they are also green card holders, who are therefore not American nationals. You may exclude them on the basis of their tax position, because there is no obligation to accept them. And it can be done on the basis of a legal ban, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, but with specific investment products. Exclusion on the basis of nationality is not neat, but my prediction is that we will not hear about it again in a short time because every bank participates in the exchange of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u22	It's not just niche banks. I happen to mention ASN, but it occurs in several banks. I also mentioned ING and I could have mentioned insurer AEGON. They all have this kind of condition, which literally states citizenship: a citizen of the United States of America is regarded as a condition which prevents one from using their services. It does not say: in the case of products covered by the Dodd-Frank Act. Indeed, it would be best to use their services, but not specifically from certain speculative products covered by the Dodd-Frank Act. Then perhaps I could have imagined something, but now people with an American passport are being generically excluded. That's just what the regulations say. I can't read it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u23	Take ING. That bank doesn't fight American citizens. ING has sent a letter stating that some people are not welcome with specific products. This may mean that you are not welcome with certain investment services that have these products in their portfolio. So you're not welcome at a certain part of a bank. To my knowledge, there are no major banks that specifically refuse American citizens. However, there are those who prevent Americans from providing certain investment services for that reason. The ING example is one of these. Aegon has a specific, internet banking proposition. That's a real niche player. He's not in on it yet. However, Mr Merkies and I can both guess that these niche players will be participating in the data exchange in some time, because otherwise life for a bank will be very difficult, if not impossible. So my firm impression is that the non-acceptation based on FATCA is limited to a few niche banks and is still temporary. I can't say anything other than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u24	The Secretary of State says that at some point they will participate in the exchange of information and so on. They would certainly not have to mention that provision. They might think, "It's gonna be okay." My point is that it says very loudly: "At the time of entering into the relationship with the Bank, account holder is a resident of the Netherlands. In addition, account holder is not also resident or citizen of the United States of America." I don't think there's a word of Greek or Spanish to that. This is stated in the terms of several banks. Can the Secretary of State accept that condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u25	I have the insurance of the Dutch Banking Association that all major banks accept people with an American passport. I have been told that this also applies to ASN Bank. The sentence quoted by Mr Merkies comes from ASN Bank's Rules of Procedure, to which that rule does apply. I can assume that someone who just bankes and pays off his money will also be welcome with an American passport at ASN Bank. This is really a provision which has to do with legislation that we are not dealing with here and with a circumstance that is not here. That's my belief. In any case, people living here with an American passport can choose from all major banks. Only a few niche banks are not participating for the time being, in my opinion. The Chamber wants more. I am, of course, talking about the Common Reporting Standard, because that is the logical successor. That is true reciprocity, global and multilateral. Mr Merkies and Mr Groot had some concerns about the connection. Who's actually in on that? Don't we need a little more strength in that? Mr Merkies also added the question of whether there is a little too much freedom about what is then exchanged and between whom. I want to take those concerns away. At present, 80 countries have made a concrete commitment to join. That includes all the financial centers. This includes all the more or less prosperous Western countries. There are some countries which I had never heard before, namely five, which fall into the category of'more or less prosperous' and are still thinking about it. However, these five countries have not yet said no. If I show you the list of these countries, perhaps the Chamber will think we are talking about hobby associations, because many of them may never have heard of them. So the world's in on it. The hesitaters are also heavily pressured by the G20. We are truly convinced that the Common Reporting Standard will become a global standard. Mr Merkies still has some reserves. In the dating room we meet who shares what with whom, he says. My argument is that there are some restrictions for those who are allowed to extradite, but they are based solely on confidentiality and privacy protection. Some countries apply a higher standard than others. We must then wait for the countries with a lower standard to reach a higher standard. In principle, everyone does it with everyone, but safe. That's the idea. Once the privacy levels are in order, there is no opt-out. There is no choice. There is also no difference in severity between the Common Reporting Standards and the European Directives in this area. We do not see that difference and are therefore really convinced in this area that this is a global standard that does not allow countries to participate again via all kinds of shortcuts and yet does not exchange certain data.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u26	From a well-informed source, I have heard that people can make choices for countries. In fact, the Secretary of State says that all countries act in the same way. You look at the degree of privacy protection and confidentiality in your country, he says. That would be of some concern to me, too. Then you get Switzerland, which says it has very high privacy protection for people. Then you keep a banking secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u27	Privacy protection is about how the data is protected. According to my information, reserves could only exist on this basis, and then temporarily, but it is explicitly intended that, in so far as those reserves are not clearly identifiable, the data should simply be exchanged worldwide. Mr Merkies obviously has other information on this. Apparently, we're also walking around in a different dating circuit. I'll check it out on my date. However, I do not see the concern that Mr Merkies sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u28	I would like to repeat what the Secretary of State says, because I think this is important. When you participate as a country in that multilateral treaty, you treat all countries in the field of information exchange the same, he says. So you cannot exclude certain countries from certain information coming from your country.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u29	Unless you have the conviction that privacy or data protection is less guaranteed there. Other than that, that's the information I have. That's right. Mr Van Dijck's main concern about withholding tax was reciprocity. That's what I've been doing. I've been talking about right across the street. Mr Koolmees asked whether the privacy rules should be implemented before data can actually be exchanged. The actual exchange is foreseen in September 2015. Before that, were those rules laid down? The answer is yes. Why does the Netherlands apply the €50,000 limit, asked Mr Koolmees. I think the United States is using these rules. I can't find it right now, but it's been agreed that the data will only be exchanged above this amount. With only need to report over €50,000 in savings. In the case of investment products, that is, by the way, fivefold. That's the data in the U.S. law. Underneath, there is therefore no point in exchanging this information in order not to have to make a declaration. If the Americans ask for less data than we have, it will never be detrimental. We will not impose such a restriction on ourselves. Then the Americans will simply provide the data we want. I'm through with the headlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u30	The Secretary of State argues with that Common Reporting Standard that all financial centres are participating in any way. Therefore, a sanctioning instrument would not be necessary. He mentioned a number of 80 countries, but of course the world knows more than 80 countries. Is it also about countries like Singapore, Hong Kong, the Cayman Islands and Bermuda? After all, FATCA also extends to such countries. Is that the same thing with the CRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u31	Singapore has been ticked off by September 2018. What were the other examples? At least the answer is yes. There are more countries in the world, but there are also a lot of countries with a non-significant financial sector, countries with levels of prosperity and levels of development that do not even live up to this. They do not have enough data to exchange, nor the capacity to build the infrastructure for that purpose. Most of the world's prosperity is in those 80 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u32	Of course, we are also talking about notorious tax havens, countries that have banking secrets or shadowy banks. FATCA extends to this in a non-binding way. And I don't understand that for the CRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u33	Bermuda, Virgin Islands, Isle of Man, Liechtenstein, Seychelles, United Arab Emirates, Hong Kong, Singapore, Switzerland...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u34	With this list, the Secretary of State has completed his reply. We are starting the second term of the debate with Mrs Neppérus on behalf of the VVD and the CDA groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u35	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. There are two difficult points left. The first concerns the people who have been given American nationality by birth, while they were born of Dutch parents. Only against paying a lot of money can they get rid of that nationality. I would like to hear whether the Secretary of State is prepared to raise this point with colleagues in the cabinet who are often present in the United States. These are well-intentioned citizens who are bound to the Netherlands all their lives. Letters have been written on behalf of the banks. Maybe FATCA wasn't the first reason, but I read an association in those letters. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the objective of the FATCA Convention to further limit fraud and reduce the overall administrative burden is good;]] [[noting that in the implementation of the FATCA Convention beneficial residents of the Netherlands who are also American citizens may encounter difficulties in having or opening accounts with certain Dutch banks;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to persuade banks to at least ensure that these persons have access to their existing account or that there is adequate provision of services by a sufficient number of providers, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Neppérus, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Koolmees and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33985-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed reply. We had a lot of questions about people of American nationality. We had already asked written questions about this, for example in the context of BinckBank. I'm not quite convinced yet. The Secretary of State says it's about niche banks, but I'm concerned about the principle that you can just include it in your terms. We found that at several banks. The Secretary of State says we're gonna make an appeal on those banks. I do not think an apple is so strong, because if it is a discriminatory provision, it simply has to come out. The Secretary of State has not yet addressed my last point, the Common Reporting Standard. I compared it to the Administrative Assistance Directive. Maybe the Secretary of State forgot to mention that point. We have made better agreements on this, including on reciprocity. That is clearly what the obligation is. The Common Reporting Standard should have at least that level internationally. I understand that an agreement has been made on this matter, but I would say: go for a better Common Reporting Standard and better implementation. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Common Reporting Standard is more non-binding on its parts than the Administrative Assistance Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the agreements in the Common Reporting Standard become at least as strict as those in the Administrative Assistance Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33985-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u37	Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, thank the Secretary of State for his reply and for the thorough preparation he has shown. It's like he's been Secretary of State for years. Compliments for that! FATCA is a shining example for Europe. It is also very hopeful that it will be followed in the form of the Common Reporting Standard. It is a pity that we are following this example, but we are not providing that proposal with the same teeth as America. At the same time, the Secretary of State has also indicated that he is confident that this Common Reporting Standard will really work and be followed up. I guess that's what I'm gonna take for granted right now. We are undoubtedly going to have a lot of debates on international tax avoidance, the measures announced at OECD level and the measures that Europe is about to take. So we can certainly come back to this again in detail. That is also why I have kept the motion I intended to table for a moment. First, I'm gonna find out if there's any real reasons to provide that Common Reporting Standard with teeth. If that proves necessary, I'll make a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u38	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for the very clear answers, including in the note on the report. I will certainly say the same to the officials. Dating practices against tax avoidance with secure data exchange: that would be an exciting summary of the debate! I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment not to exchange information until further agreements have been made with the Americans. Those appointments should be made by September 2015. I had prepared a motion on this, but I will not table it, because the Secretary of State has made a commitment on this matter. Mrs Neppérus has tabled a motion on my behalf which calls for once and for all the signals we get that it is indeed impossible for people to bank normally. I found the Secretary of State's answer clear: it is not so much about FATCA as about investment accounts agreed upon in Dodd-Frank and other legislation. However, in recent times we have received a lot of signals from people who say: we are not getting to work, not even for a very simple payment account, because we are American. I hope that this will be resolved now and that it will be in consultation with the banking sector in order to simply give those people a normal bank account. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u39	Thank you very much. I'm looking at the Secretary of State to see if he's already willing and able to answer. That's the case. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u40	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Neppérus calls on me to speak to my colleagues about something which is nevertheless an aspect of American legislation. The cabinet is capable of much, but American legislation cannot change it. Perhaps I can respond to her first concern by being more accommodating on her second point, namely the motion. Both points have a lot to do with each other. I consider the motion to be both sympathetic and feasible and, following Mrs Neppérus' speech, understandable. I would therefore like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. Depending on how the vote goes, I will try again. This may then be an immediate response to Mrs Neppérus' first concern. Mr Merkies mentioned a point of principle, but he added the deed to the word with a motion. I say two things about that. First of all, we see not only me but also the people who have looked closely at this. That difference in severity is not seen, but I do not see the problem either. I really think that the Common Reporting Standard is going to work, and that is not just something we need to give a chance: we see it happening in front of us at a huge pace. Who would have thought that a few years ago? I don't really see any reason for extra bets on stringency. I would therefore advise against this motion, but with a positive undertones: I think that the objective that Mr Merkies and I have in mind is also being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u41	Let me see if we can come to some sort of agreement. The Secretary of State says he sees no difference in severity. Is it possible for the Secretary of State to inform us about this in a letter, in which he specifically addresses the differences between the Administrative Assistance Directive and the Common Reporting Standard? I know that according to the Secretary of State, the Administrative Assistance Directive is an implementation of the Common Reporting Standard, but I have heard that there are differences between them. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what his view is. If he wants to do that, I'd like to take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u42	I answer this with a question that Mr Van Dijck asked me about: right across the street. I would like to do so, but then I would like to hear from Mr Merkies a few more specific suggestions. Then I can deal much more specifically with Mr Merkies' concerns. On that condition, I am particularly happy to admit it and put it on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u43	Would you like me to send that explanation to the Secretary of State in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u45	That's good. Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u46	At the request of Mr Merkies, I propose his motion (33985, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-19.u47	The Secretary of State has therefore completed his reply. I thank him very much. I would also like to thank all the other Members present. We will vote tomorrow evening on the bill and the motion. I wish you all a safe journey home.
