ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to mention what we should be thinking about, namely the Tax Plan 2015. However, questions have also been asked about the system and the operation that is under way on that point. Sustainability has been discussed generously and should therefore not be missed in my answers. International taxation came along. There are also some remaining questions that I will deal with at the end of my reply. So I'll start with the Tax Plan. I would like to thank the various speakers yesterday for their comments. They have studied all kinds of tough matter in addition to all the other work they do and are also prepared to discuss it in the evening hours. Of some spokesmen, it may be the hobby, but I'm sure it's not everyone's. There have been critical comments, for which I would also like to thank the spokesmen. Compliments have also been given. The real, ultimate compliment came from Mr. Ester yesterday. He called the whole thing "boring." With regard to the Tax Plan, boredom is my ultimate policy objective. A greater compliment was not conceivable. I would like to sigh: if only every tax plan had been so boring in the last eight years, because then the Tax Administration would have had a more positive life and would probably have stood here even another State Secretary. In the first term, I have heard a large number of spokesmen on a number of points with even greater pleasure than usual. In fact, as we are now in this Chamber, we appear to be allies: allies in the fight against fiscal instrumentalism. Some spokesmen have spoken heart-warmingly about this. I would like to add the following. Fiscal instrumentalism is currently the major culprit in the execution. It is an important cause of the high burden on labour in the Netherlands. It often aims to achieve very noble goals, but often does not achieve them fully or not efficiently. It also introduces tax incentives that you can only get out of the system with great difficulty. We're all in on it. After all, the cabinet has proposed to the Chamber to introduce a waste tax that was not there, and I am responsible for that. In terms of fiscal instrumentalism, that measure does not deserve a beauty prize. The House of Representatives also did not sit still and added an export tax. I have then heard in the First Chamber warm pleas for further greening. For the interested listener, the First Chamber gave the impression that they only wanted to rely on fiscal instruments. We all contribute to instrumentalism and must therefore find our way back together. I will come back to that in the context of the discussion on the system. In the framework of the 2015 Tax Plan, a few questions have been asked about the working costs regime. This regulation deserves to be mentioned first, because it contains the only real simplification this year. Until recently, we had two working-cost arrangements: one we called a transitional arrangement; the other we called the working-cost scheme. There are a few new elements in that. Mr Ester asked whether there would be a grey area and whether the new criterion of necessity would create problems with regard to enforcement. That's a good question. We do not think so, but precisely for that reason we begin very modestly. In other words, we're going to see it. The new necessity criterion is limited to tools, computers and telephones. In fact, it's about the hammer and the iPad. We'll start small and test it to see if it works. I understand from business people that they would have wanted to roll it out widely. We're not doing that yet. Let's see how it works first. We are going to gain experience in a clear area. An evaluation clause has been included in the scheme. We're gonna see if it works. In my view, therefore, Mr Ester has asked the right question. Mrs Sent asked about the utility criterion. How do we fill that out? There are, of course, signs that the cost of working is likely to be used to designate wages in cash and thus to moderate the rate of the fourth disc. It's not supposed to be like that. The utility criterion is the means to ensure that it does not happen. The utility criterion should then be clarified. It is not the intention to limit employers' freedom of choice, but rather to make it possible, for example, to give money instead of a Christmas package. However, the tightening of the utility criterion should be aimed at countering what I call 'tariff arbitrage'. The character of the free space must be maintained. I hope to be able to present the tightening-up in the Tax Collection Act which will be sent to the Chamber in spring 2015. We have the waste tax. I just mentioned her. Mr Bröcker spoke frankly and asked whether this is an example of fiscal instrumentalism. I say to him: Mr Bröcker, at your service; that is correct. I have had to turn my back on the disappointments about this waste tax by taking alternate baths and hitting myself with a twig. I'm over it now. We tried to keep her as simple as possible. Mr Ester asked whether the waste tax was also budgetaryally and environmentally sound. This was done by the Planning Office for the Environment, which also made this recommendation. The PBL has made calculations. The starting point was that the waste tax would retain a certain yield, but it was also assessed on an environmental basis. It was considered that it would lead to more recycling. This then led Mr Van Boxtel to the question of whether the shift to recycling would not go faster if we increased the rate. I say to Mr Van Boxtel that this is universally true. With each amount determined, the incentive to recycling is likely to increase if you choose an even higher amount. In this case, we have focused on a target yield. Let's see how it goes. A higher amount would also impose higher burdens on this business chain. We didn't choose that. Of course, his lawfulness is that if you push harder, you always get on with it. Mrs Sent has asked me whether I think the export tax is necessary and desirable. Of course, I didn't think so originally, because otherwise I would have proposed it. My opinion was that transport costs alone would be prohibitive for large and significant exports. I therefore considered that this was not necessary. The House of Representatives has ruled that it was necessary. I am therefore here on behalf of the House of Representatives, in the sense that I am now defending the proposal in which this element is included. If Mrs Sent asks me if I think that is necessary, I think that is a parliamentary matter. I have just said something about the substance of the matter. Moreover, the export tax must be implemented by aligning it with the existing export licence, the European Waste Shipment Regulation, the so-called EVOA system. If connected, this is feasible for the Tax Administration. Please note: it's executable, but it's not very accurate. We have to live with that. Mr Ester called for more stability and less uncertainty about the rules governing the addition of cars. Mr Van Strien also asks how we see the fleet of cars of the future. Without wanting to be visionary, I would like to say that the second car letter should be published in spring or at least before the summer of 2015. That letter should take steps to explain how all these cars will be treated fiscally for the next four years, the four years after 2016. That, as we know, also follows the size and composition of the fleet, because we Dutch people pay very close attention to the percentages. Let me not dwell on that at this stage, just because I do not have a lot of lyrics on it. Let us discuss this when the car letter reaches the Chamber. Mr Essers asked whether the residual debt facility should also be applied to old residual debts. I think the answer has been given earlier and may disappoint him. The objective was to promote flow. Passage is not promoted by providing tax facilities to people who have already moved. Mr Essers says that the OECD is encouraging us to do something about the debt position of people with residual debt. I think that in "houses under water" he means the capital position rather than the debt position, because the second of course has not really changed. However, that was not the objective of this scheme. The objective is to initiate relocations. If you would like to extend that to the past, so with retroactive effect beyond the date of 29 October 2012, every year you push the border costs 150 million. That's money from now on to promote behavior that's already taken place. I don't think that's a good balance. Mr Ester is also in favour of the owner of his own house. After all, he wants me to harden my efforts to further extend the reduced VAT rate in construction. That hardening eventually resulted in six months. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing more than that. Every six months it costs 130 million here. At some point, we're out of cake. That's actually the answer. I see that Mr Ester wishes to respond immediately to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u3	It costs 130 million. Has there ever been a cost-benefit analysis of this measure? My observation, also based on discussions with the sector, is that this measure has led to an enormous amount of economic activity and has thus generated tax revenue. So has there ever been a good cost-benefit analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u4	Efforts have certainly been made to this end, but they have not led to a very clear picture. The researchers have not been able to confirm or deny Mr Ester's firm impressions with their research. There is a suspicion that this should work. However, it has not been established that the social cost-benefit ratio is favourable, so the benefit-cost ratio is above 1, I should say. Mr Nagel is actually asking me about parliamentary history. He asks whether it is true that the elderly discount, the tax rebate in income tax (ib), was intended to compensate for the freezing of the AOW in 1994. Mr Nagel asked whether the elderly allowance, the additional tax-free capacity for older people in box 3, was intended to compensate for low-income elderly people when they introduced box 3. I cannot fully construct parliamentary history here, but it could be. It may be that something has ever been meant to compensate for the freezing of the AOW, but we must note that at least the AOW has not been frozen at the moment. In fact, it will increase more than assistance in the coming years. They are both purchasing power instruments. In the IBO report on older people, I believe that it was established in 2013 that the income position of older people has improved significantly since 1994 compared to other groups. So it now appears to be justified that is quite a victory in our society.. to treat older people more equally with other taxpayers by 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u5	If the AOW is frozen, if it is delayed and then a compensatory measure is introduced, I do not think you can say that the AOW was not frozen in 2014. No, that AOW wasn't frozen, but there was a delay at the time. That is why there was compensation. If you remove that compensation now, you're gonna fall behind again. That's the reasoning. The Secretary of State says he can't control this completely, but I urge him to do so. If it turns out there are injustices, I'm asking him to make sure there aren't. We've got another year to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u6	I would like to believe from Mr Nagel that there were delays, but on the basis of the IBO report on the elderly, it can be established that they are no longer there. In a democracy, decisions are sometimes taken other than those deemed useful 20 years ago. They may have been very useful back then. However, times have changed. Sometimes a democracy decides to take a different path. In this case, this is not a strange road either. The proposal is to treat older people in the same way as other taxpayers, given that they have not been among the poorest groups in the Netherlands for some time. In fact, the purchasing power and disposable income of people of working age, who still have to set up a house and raise children, is under more pressure than the purchasing power and disposable income of the average elderly. By the way, I do not want to say that every older person always enjoys it, but so does Mr Nagel. Mrs Sent asked me an economic question. She asked why we encourage the supply of knowledge workers through labour costs. In her argument, she argues that those who make the greatest contribution also earn the highest income. They can therefore also be taxed at the highest rate. In our tax system, this can be the case in general. However, it is not strange to take this measure. It is also economically justifiable. The footless labour force, which can therefore work in the Netherlands but also in other countries and do their research and which at the same time have the greatest positive external effects for this society, should be the least burdened. Otherwise, you will be the first to chase them out of the country, while the damage is greatest. That is why economists are tempted to use these instruments. However, Mrs Sent is not immediately victorious. She asks why we do not do this at TNO and the universities. Why are they excluded from this benefit? It has been found that the universities and TNO and the other research institutions did not pass on most of the benefit to their clients. In this sense, they left unused the sucking effect on the client's side. As a result, this instrument was less effective on that side. This does not undermine the general economic theory that I have just explained. In this case, this has been chosen. That money needs to be used differently. Mr Essers has asked me if I am prepared to make an exception to the concept of a partner. I sent a letter this morning to this Chamber and to the House of Representatives. I promised to talk about this. We've been looking into practical solutions. Practically speaking, there were no practical solutions, but I am prepared to think about some kind of exception. In the course of next year, I will make a proposal to this effect so that, in Mr Essers' opinion, this case can be properly designed. Mr Reuten asked detailed questions about income policies and purchasing power effects and the methods behind them. I'm somewhat uncomfortable with that. These questions lie primarily in the area of my colleague, the Minister of SZW. He has the method and the results in his portfolio. However, I am here on behalf of the cabinet, so I would like to comment briefly on a few things. If it gets deeper, we can try to deepen it in a technical session, but if Mr Reuten has any policy questions, I invite him to ask my colleague from SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u7	The Secretary of State will return it to Mr Reuten. I think this is a very strange reasoning. These questions have been put to the Secretary of State. He's had an afternoon, a night and a whole morning to think about it. Then he comes up with the story that it is actually in the field of Social Affairs and that it can be discussed in a technical session. I think that's a bit of a weird argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u8	The methodical differences discussed yesterday by Mr Reuten do not lend themselves very well to a plenary debate in the First Chamber. It's complicated matter. I am trying to serve Mr Reuten by providing the opportunity to deepen this. Any other interested party from this Chamber is of course welcome. I see Mr Van Boxtel shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u9	I'm not asking the question to be invited to a technical conversation beyond the screens. That's not my point at all. Any senator here can ask what he wants and can expect an answer. I find it a little strange when it is said: that will come through in a technical consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u10	I don't think it's a strange method of having a technical consultation. I have said that I would like to reply to Mr Reuten's questions in general, and I am going to do so now. His main point was that the lowest incomes were omitted from the CPB statistics. They're not in the MIMOSI model. Mr Reuten said yesterday that he was stunned. I'm not surprised. In fact, I think it makes a lot of sense. At the bottom the household data have the characteristics of a point cloud. There's all kinds of household bills in there as income. It could include households with, for example, "I'm starting the logic from the bottom up" of an amount of €100 per month. That kind of thing's in there. That is almost certainly not a credible household income. We're pretty sure. No one can live on that. Those lowest data points are the least likely, but most distorting for statistics. So it's unwise to leave such a data point in there. Then you may ask yourself whether €200 or €300 is likely. There's a cut-off point somewhere. It's unwise to leave all those data points in there. Statistically, that's inexplicable. It's arbitrary where the cut-off point is. So we've only relied on the CPB's choice. The good news, of course, is that this database is getting better every year. This year, for example, the self-employed have also been added. Gradually, a better database grows out. The CPB is thinking about how these data points get there and what they propose. For the time being, this statistical correction is being applied. I fully support that. It seems to me that this can be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u11	If you look at the point clouds of the CPB, you'll see those outliers everywhere. I don't think that's the point. The point is whether those outliers are random or permanent. If a group of 450 000 households is permanently below 63% of the statutory minimum wage, that group is included. I didn't hear you say 'I also read the underlying piece from September last year 'that's a coincidence. That's not said. It seems to be structural. It seems to be something permanent, something non-coincidence. I don't see much reason not to bring a group like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u12	I don't agree with that. Coincidences can be of a systematic nature. It's called noise. Permanent noise is also noise. Even if it is other cases every year, which end up there every year because of any statistical reasons, it can always be the same or always different; that does not really matter for the reason of noise, then you will have to correct for it, because you do not believe that it is a good idea of the actual income of these households, even if it occurs every year, even if it is different every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u13	The CPB does have a basis for the cut-off point that has been chosen. It's 63%. That's the tax-free foot. That is 90% of the income of a single person on the social minimum and that is 70% of the statutory minimum wage. Does the Secretary of State agree that the cut-off point is not arbitrary?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u14	Well, 90% or 63% of another number is to some extent arbitrary. Other numbers could have been chosen. These numbers have been chosen and are therefore also used. However, different numbers could have been chosen. In this sense, it has a certain degree of arbitraryity, but we have kept to it and are happy to pass on the cut-off point chosen by the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u15	I was rather intrigued yesterday by the information Mr Reuten mentioned. Especially if the cut-off point lies with what is seen as the minimum benefit of a single person, that means that, in my opinion, there are actual, actual incomes below the cut-off point. However, I hear the Secretary of State say that we are taking out the income that can't be right. I think that if the cut-off point is so high, there are a lot of real incomes below that cut-off point. Is that what is being looked at or is it simply said that everyone should be able to have an income above that level and that we are just using it as a cut-off point?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u16	As long as this point cloud is present, this cut-off point is used, as Mrs Sent has just explained. The CPB makes every step in improving this database. It can be very factual income. Someone who somehow studies and gets an allowance of €100 from somewhere does have an income, but doesn't actually live on it. He has additional income sources. So it should not be assumed that someone actually gets by on that amount. That is distorting for household income, because he will also get his household income from somewhere else. As long as there is no better view, the cut-off point is used. I understand the database gets better every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u17	The key question is whether it is a permanent group, however variable. An effect is that not only the median income of that lower 25%, but also the median income of the whole population, of all households, is significantly overestimated. The median of the total is overestimated at €3,000 and this is overestimated at €4,500. Those are huge amounts of money, aren't they? I have here the underlying piece, 34000-XV No. 5, from your colleague in Social Affairs. The figures for the distribution of income are largely determined by the calculations of the responsible Ministry. That's why I think I can come up with this. The letter of 17 September states that, in part, the improvements are called "technically" and to some extent they are politically relevant. They are also politically relevant, for the reasons I have just mentioned, namely that the median income is estimated to be significantly higher than the actual median income, as the Central Statistical Office also gives it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u18	The fact that it is politically relevant has already been proved. We are talking about it now and the discussion was about it yesterday. However, the correction was done precisely in order not to misjudge it. If the CPB had considered that these were good estimates and that those lower points of €100 per month were representations of a real household income, then the CPB would have taken them with them. On the contrary, the CPB considers that it is not overestimated by this method. We cannot have a very large statistical discussion on this. This is the view of the CPB on this operation, which we have followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u19	This is the fourth tax debate we have in this parliamentary term. Two years ago, I pointed out that it would be good for the quality of the debate and for the interaction in the debate if we could get a little more clarity between ourselves in relation to the statistics and tables we use here. We then had a session with a social affairs briefing. It's a bit before the Secretary of State's time, but history repeats itself. In that session, as a committee, we looked at the material that was supplied. What surprises me every time is that it is difficult to conduct the debate properly on the basis of the material we receive and from which we draw our inspiration for the political debate. It is understandable that the emphasis is sometimes changed. It is perhaps something for the future that we may need to look again at before the debate we are having here, to get some facts on the table that we are using with clarity and consistency. Then, in my opinion, you get much more quality in the discussion among yourselves and in the discussion with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u20	I fully agree with Senator Bröcker, but I would like to stress that this is a new issue, because the cabinet is not taking that group with it for the first time this year. I sort of found out by chance that the CPB doesn't either. I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u21	I understand that very well. I understand the context and the background. The CPB refines every year. The databases are getting better and new presentations are being made on the basis of those databases. However, once again, my appeal is to find an opportunity before we enter the political debate, so that Mr Van Boxtel does not have to be invited to do so in order to achieve some consensus on substantive issues, so that we may lose a little less time or at least have a better discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u22	I tried to make a proposal to that effect. As part of a technical session, we can look together at what we have, what we have faith in and what we can do better, together with the people who can tell us the possibilities, because I am not one of those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u23	I wholeheartedly support that proposal. I'll be there for that session.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u24	I also support the proposal. I would like to see such a technical session with someone from the Ministry, someone from the Central Planning Bureau and also someone from the Central Statistical Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u25	That seems to me to be a very productive proposal. I will make every effort to do so. Mr Reuten asked about the policy effects up to 2017. That's what he did in writing. The procedure is as follows: Or should I call it a "tradition"? At the beginning of the cabinet period there are two estimates, covering aspects without policy and policies. The difference is the effect of the coalition agreement. The CPB does not intend to make these estimates in-between. The specialists also believe that it does not serve a purpose, because the difference between "policy" and "policy-free" is no longer visible mid-term. Part of the future has now become history, but what lies in the world and what lies in policy is no longer separate. In this sense, such an interim transfer would not only be a great deal of work, but would also be of limited use. The CPB told me not to feel that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u26	That has far-reaching implications. In fact, the Secretary of State says: you can never judge our policy, because the world always goes on. I'm sure I can see the problems, but... Well, I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u27	Ex ante is made an assessment of the impact of the policy, but ex post you never know whether it was the sanctions against Russia or ISIS or the oil price. That's what makes it difficult. On that point, I must disappoint Mr Reuten. Mr Reuten also felt that the collective burden burden should be presented in a different way. This has been discussed at length. I remember that it was even discussed in the General Financial Reviews. In addition, we also exchanged stats with each other. He is quite right that all kinds of presentations are actually wrong to what he says, or all kinds of calculations are possible, for example with or without a pension premium. Maybe we're not entirely in agreement on the right presentation. But in any case, we agree on the fact that it can be done in all kinds of ways and that for different purposes many ways are right. It has been chosen to give the pension premium more the character of a burden than the character of an income. The pension premium has undoubtedly characteristics of a burden. There is no freedom of choice. In return, there is no one-to-one consumption, because in between there are still many redistribution effects. In countries with pension systems other than ours, these figures would also be a burden. After all, this is a matter of public money flows. All kinds of comments were made and questions were asked about the reform of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u28	Mr Reuten, you can only make a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u29	Yeah, I'll make it quick. This is a fundamental point, also in the context of the revision of the tax system. We agree on what gross income is, at least I have not heard that there is a difference of opinion. Gross income is taxed. The question then is what we do count as the tax burden and what we do not count as the tax burden. I would also like to have a technical discussion about this with someone from the Ministry and someone from the CBS. In this case, the CPB is less relevant. I would like that discussion to take place, because I believe that this is equally important, even for the coming year, if the reform of the system is put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u30	Okay. Maybe we should try programming that in the same session. I'm getting on the system. We have just had fiscal instrumentalism. This also makes the revision of the tax system one major battle against fiscal instrumentalism. In substance, it is quite a calculation, but politically speaking, the abolition of a fiscal instrument alone amounts to pushing an elephant up the stairs. At least, it's like pushing an elephant up the stairs. It's a lot of work, but I hope the beast comes out eventually. Almost all Members have asked how to proceed with this system. There's a collective run for the music. Mrs Sent asked whether special attention would be paid to lower incomes. The answer to this is that a balanced distribution of income is one of the preconditions of the operation. Mr Van Boxtel asked whether the digital economy would be involved in the system review. The letter states that other forms of taxation may be useful in the field of digital economy. I think it'll be there, but I predict it won't have a very big role. That is more detailed than you should expect in a first scripture on the system review. Mrs Sent pointed out that the tax burden between employees and the self-employed was distorted. That is addressed in one of the choices made by the cabinet, so that will certainly be discussed. Mr Van Boxtel asked what arrangements should be made for simplification, abolition or merger. That's a long list. The letter contains a lot of points of reference for simplification. But again, it's something for the music. The letter contains the choices. I'm working on the details right now. I also speak with the political groups of the House of Representatives. Ten of the thirteen political groups are enthusiastic about this. That enthusiasm is sincere, at least for my opinion. I promised the House of Representatives we'd try to get a prototype ready for the summer. A prototype is not yet a working vehicle, but there are so many horns and bells that you see how it becomes. That would mean filling in all eight choices in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u31	I thank the Secretary of State for this explanation, but I am not quite sure yet. Prototypes are also often seen on cars and aircraft. It takes them years to get on the road. You can always enjoy prototypes when you go to car fairs, but you don't see those cars on the road for a while. Carefulness must not be accompanied by haste, but by a necessary pace. I'm not listening to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u32	It has been agreed with the House of Representatives that the prototype is ready for the summer. It is therefore a question of the choices that have been made. However, it has also been agreed that, if the budget leaves some room for this, we will include some of the first elements of this in the 2016 Tax Plan. This is discussed and worked on with different groups in the Lower House, wider than the two or five parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u33	Thanks for that, too, but I'm not quite sure yet. I would like to ask you very directly: will you reserve enough resources in the spring of 2015 to achieve a reduction in the burden, in which the first measures can already be implemented in the 2016 Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u34	Of course, I can't predict that. If I had that predictive gift, the budget might have looked different. In the past year, without expecting it, without having been an exceptionally good economic year and without anyone cheering about a turnaround in the economic tide, we already had a billion more than expected for relief, which has been dropped in the Tax Plan 2015. Unfortunately, at that time, there was no plan to link the load relief to. That's too bad, because you'd prefer to use load relief politically as a lubricating oil. You will then get a free reform and there will be the same amount of relief. Suppose the coming year would develop about the same as the past year. Maybe it'll just blow over budget. We can then indeed put that into a system operation. I can't predict that, but the cabinet chooses to do so without additional cuts. We have said several times in various debates with the House of Representatives that austerity is in no way taboo or excluded. The parties that are most in favour of this are also making proposals. That's a promise, too. The list of Koolmees lives on the other side, which has nothing on it yet, but which, I'm sure, has something on it. That is the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u35	Thank you again. What happens across the street is very relevant but not only decisive. I also ask those questions myself, from the D66 group in the Upper House. I would stress that the process described by the Secretary of State does not yet give me sufficient certainty about the question I asked for, namely: will the Secretary of State release sufficient funds in the spring and present the contours of a new tax plan on the occasion of Princess Day, so that the first measures can be implemented in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u36	Mr Van Boxtel knows that I do not know because nobody knows. It depends on how the year ahead is going to develop. I hope so, and it's not out of the question at all. If we had started this a year earlier, we would have been able to use a first billion in relief for this process. For this reason alone, I would indeed like to start quickly, so that there are no further possibilities for combining the improvement of the system with the reduction of charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u37	I am a little surprised that the Secretary of State states that there was no plan when there was a reduction in charges. There's all kinds of reports, isn't there? I refer to the Van Dijkhuizen Committee and the Van Weeghel Committee, with very specific proposals. There's plenty of plans. It's just a matter of: make use of it and implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u38	In political terms, a plan is something other than an opinion. There were like 10 advices. The CPB had looked at a large number of sub-areas. The OECD has advised us on several occasions. There were reports from Van Weeghel and Van Dijkhuizen. So there is enough advice, but more is needed to speak of a plan in this political constellation. We are now trying to get to that stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u39	Is it not rather the case that there was no political agreement on what had to be done but that there were plans? However, the time was not ripe to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u40	Then it becomes casusism. What I call an opinion is not necessarily a plan. A plan is a set of measures, with sufficient broad support to move forward. I note that we are working on this. The intention is even to seek wider support in this respect than we normally do for parliamentary pathways, because we want the shoulders to go wide in society. This has to last for years. We have noted that, at best, you can go through a system review every 10 to 15 years. Then you want to find the broadest possible support. That's what we're doing. It comes down to pushing up the stairs of an elephant. Once you have support, as soon as you get through the review, you have to implement it. Then there is another tough implementation path for the Tax Administration. You can't go to sleep right away when the review's over. Once you get the elephant up the stairs, it jumps right into your bed and falls asleep. Then you'll be on the guest bed. So there is still some water going through the Rhine but it is now about gaining strength for the plans, along the lines of the letter. We're working on that right now. I hope with Mr Van Boxtel that we will find enough lubrication oil to be able to take steps already in the 2016 tax plan. I have the feeling that Mr Nagel is asking about the familiar road. He asked whether an extension of a local tax area would only mean that citizens would pay more. That is expressly not the idea. The idea is that the tax shifts from a distorting to a less disruptive basis. The idea is, moreover, that the total in this operation will reduce the burden. The aim is to reduce the net burden from 3 to 5 billion. Mr Van Boxtel asked whether it had been considered to increase the burden of capital. That's been looked at in all kinds of ways. There has also been a comparison with countries and OECD research has been looked at. Then you see that certain assets are taxed lower in the Netherlands. That's two bugs. Half the capital is in the home and in pensions. They are taxed lower in the Netherlands. We are proud of it in the pension system. When it comes to our own home, we have done something about it, after many years. It's phased out. The impression is that when it comes to the typical power in box 3, we are not out of line in terms of power load. We have also seen this, but one can also ask Monsieur Hollande that the very high load of power in such cases can also have very harmful effects. I understand from the Financial Times that London has become the sixth city of France.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u41	The sum of those two, the sum of the house-side and box 3 is quite out of order because it is negative in the Netherlands. In international terms, therefore, we are in great disarray when it comes to the sum of these two assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u42	I note at the same time that the two lowest-tax assets, number 1 and number 2 of the largest reforms of this cabinet, namely in the area of pensions and in the area of home ownership, are the two lowest-tax assets. At least something has been done with that. I also note that, when we are talking, for example, about the capital efficiency levy, we are really talking about box 3. The Netherlands is not out of line in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u43	Something has happened with the mortgage interest deduction, but that does not have a substantial impact on the distribution. It is slightly different in time but it remains to a large extent a tax subsidy with higher incomes having a relatively higher advantage than lower incomes. I deny what happened last year would be end of story if you look at the capital tax as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u44	End of story. I do not have a statement or a prediction in the direction of Mr Van Boxtel either. I'd like to give everyone his own prophecy. I note, however, that this cabinet has done something exactly about these two cases, whereas previous Cabinets have not done so. Maybe that's something that can put a little smile on Mr Reuten's face. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u45	What is the situation with the feeling that the capital efficiency levy is perceived as unfair? Is the Secretary of State still going to talk about that? Small savers cannot achieve the fictitious return.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u46	I'm going in now. This concerns the capital efficiency levy. It is perceived by many people as unfair. The letter I sent about that literally says that many people feel they are paying taxes on a return that has never been there. That doesn't make anyone feel right. It looks at the design of the capital efficiency levy. There are all kinds of points of view. Mr Essers asked about the feasibility, for example, of a capital efficiency levy, based on actual returns. Anything's possible, but the IRS is getting quite a headache. Mrs De Boer has even asked whether it can be compared internationally. The reality is that other countries are just looking at the fence and we are receiving all kinds of delegations studying the flat-rate capital return levy. For many people, a more equitable capital return charge does not mean abandoning the flat-rate character. The best thing would be if I found a way to combine the two of them. That's an effort I'm going through. Mr Van Boxtel asked which capital tax according to the OECD Tax Policy Studies is least disruptive. That's exactly where these two come from. A limited distorting tax is that on one's own home. The cabinet has already taken quite a step in that direction. You could include pensions under that. It's the power components that aren't mobile, that can't run. By the way, you have to be careful with all the assets that can escape. Mr Bröcker asked for a response to the Van Weeghel Committee's proposal on the basis for the Vpb. This committee has estimated that the introduction of the capital deduction and addition will result in a loss of 1.5 billion. This requires cover that you will initially seek within corporate tax. It may be logical to tackle this issue again if the results of the OECD's BEPS project are known in autumn 2015. That is, in fact, just before the Dutch Presidency. It is good to then pick up the fishing net and see what the possibilities are. I would like to pay particular attention to a good locational climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u47	I understand the Secretary of State is done with the answers on capital taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u48	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u49	I have also raised the question of whether we are looking not only at the capital efficiency levy, but also at the option of capital increase. In this context, I have asked about the international experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u50	A capital increase tax should be part of a tax on the actual return, consisting of annual returns such as rent, interest, dividend, etc. but also out of price gain. In that sense, this should be part of the variant in which you load the actual capital. That doesn't make it easy. The long list of elements you have to take with you shows that that doesn't bring the Tax Administration one-two-three to a party mood. Technically there can be a lot, but the question is whether everything that is technically possible should be done. Mr Van Boxtel asked about the VAT plans. Mrs Sent has presented me with an economic sum. VAT has been designated as one of the possible slides in the Cabinet's system letter. It is a relatively low distorting tax on the OECD ladder. In particular, the reduced VAT rate is referred to by the CPB as a very ineffective instrument to reduce the tax burden on lower incomes. That's what the rate was once meant for, but it turns out to be inefficient and causes welfare losses. The CPB has estimated that welfare gains would be around 5%, not necessarily converted into economic terms, at a uniform VAT rate. So that makes the allocation better. It still does not answer Mrs Sent's question as to why it could also create jobs. Of course, that's something else. Jobs do not work if you have the same disadvantage in terms of VAT to everyone who receives the benefit in their income tax. That's clear. It will therefore only work if you redirect relatively more of that prosperity profit to workers, which is in itself in line with the new CPB model, which aims to increase the difference between workers and non-working people and calls for welfare gains to be used, in particular, wherever they work. And that would coincide with a positive impact on the employment of a VAT slide.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u51	The Secretary of State gives a very nice descriptive answer. He's referring to the CPB report, but I've seen it, too. However, I am interested in what he thinks of it himself. We have a high and a low rate. You could go to one rate. You could look at our surrounding countries. What has proven to be effective? You can also use it to stimulate certain behavioural changes in society. What does the Secretary of State think? Are we going to a stand still and is there going to be an analysis of all the reports we know or does the Secretary of State also have a view on where he wants to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u52	That view is in the letter. There is a need to achieve a high degree of uniformity in the relatively crisp language. It states that at least one category should be excluded, namely the essentials: the shopping cart. That would have major border effects. Other rates have been looked at. Some foreign countries are slightly lower with the high rate, others are slightly higher. At the low rate we are relatively at the bottom. There are countries that have a higher low rate and there are countries that have what we have at a low rate at a middle rate. There's no one here who's arguing for a middle rate. That is not the case, but it does mean that the weighted average of the low rate in those countries is higher than ours. Furthermore, I have said that I will first look for support before I give further details, because the first blow is worth a dropper. I hope to make a proposal for which there is strong support in society. The search for support doesn't relate to the wild way riding behind a cathedral about something you haven't quite finished yet. The letter contains quite clear choices. The further details are in full swing. Mrs Sent asks to what extent we are going to use the insights from the new CPB model. The income-dependent combination discount (IACK) in that model is about the instrument of the century. We will, of course, be working on this. I'm busy doing the math. I'm looking at how much employment it leads to in which variants. Mr Essers asks why we are thinking about the direct payment of childcare allowances to childcare institutions and why this is not being investigated with regard to the other allowances. Mr Essers is going too fast, because this is of course being examined in the other supplements, simply because we have promised the Chamber that we will examine all kinds of supplements which are only slightly realistic. We have found that the surcharge system not only pumps money around, but also harms people because of its inherent effects. It remains incredibly difficult to implement. There are a lot of after- and recoverys that remain. It's not a system that just has to grow along. No, we're gonna try to make the system simpler and smaller. Of course, we all do so within the sine qua non of balanced income relationships. It's not like people have to count on something to stop suddenly. No, other ways must be found to provide income support to those who need it, preferably with a reduced wage on surcharges. And these are things you look at, too, like you look at everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u53	I am glad to hear that, because from the reply I understood that this was a variant that is currently receiving much less attention than that of the childcare allowance. I'll be reassured if this is investigated as well. It seems to be such a logical variant to prevent improper use and fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u54	Whether one gets more attention than the other is a little complicated to point out from here on out. I look as wide as I can, because it is my role to be able to tell the parliament what the best scoring variant is. Mr Essers asks what we should do with the simplification possibilities proposed by Mr Stevens. Mr Stevens has not officially proposed it yet, so I think it is a bit rude for him to eat the cheese that will be presented to him now. I am reluctant to respond to unpublished documents. It seems to me first to him to present his pieces. We are then going to take note of it and see how it should proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u55	I understand. That will be presented next Thursday. I am concerned that not everything disappears into the large area of disappearance of the revision of the tax system. There are a lot of proposals, and Mr Stevens has made a number of them - more than 100 - which can easily be implemented without falling directly under the umbrella of the system review. The Secretary of State says "the tax plan is boring" and sees it as a compliment, but there is still so much to do without it having to fall under the heading of a major review. However, these are matters which benefit taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u56	I fully agree with this, except for the fact that I distance myself from Mr Esser's choice of words when he calls my tax reform a 'disappearance operation'. Of course, I can't live with that. With the rest of his speech, I can do that. I'm here to talk about sustainability. Mr Ester has thought out loud when talking about sustainability. He has literally said that he thinks that this Secretary of State for Finance has little to do with issues of sustainability. He didn't invite me to answer that, but I do. In all honesty: I graduated in renewable energy in Delft. My first job was to save energy in the process industry. I have always and everywhere been a strong supporter of internalising external effects, including environmental impacts, and I am always and everywhere aiming for the greatest environmental gain per euro. As a liberal, I do not just want to leave public debts to my grandchildren, but also to environmental debts. In my view, therefore, the basic assumption is not correct. However, I would like to admit that if that is my weakness, then it is so true that I have little to do with paying thousands of euros to avoid emissions of 1 tonne of CO if the market price is at 5 and the horizon price is at 40. I also do not want to pretend that electricity production for electric cars does not cause CO emissions. I have nothing to do with policies that move pollution, but also jobs abroad, while the environment is not getting anywhere with them. It has always been my view that those who are truly sustainable look very closely at efficiency and feasibility, because that really serves the environment. One of the choices made by the cabinet is to look for viable measures that have a real impact on the environment and which would rather create jobs than cost jobs. That's all in the letter. That's what I have and not with sustainability. The final judgment lies with Mr Ester. Is it still the case that the Netherlands does a lot in the tax sense? However Mr Ester and others judge the fruits of Dutch environmental policy, the basket is quite full in the fiscal sense. We are third in Europe in terms of revenue from environmental taxes as a percentage of gross domestic product. Energy tax revenues will increase autonomously over the next few years and automatically to EUR 7 billion per year. That's what consumers are going to pay for in 2023. That's the storage of renewable energy. We don't have low excise duties either. I have had to defend myself more often against high than low excise duties. There are not many countries that tax the incineration of waste. We all do that, and they are all real environmental measures. However, they are all fiscalized. Here and there, we may have overstretched the fiscal instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u57	The latter could very well be. In my speech, like the Secretary of State, I said that we are in third place on environmental taxes but in the 42nd place on the issue of the necessary energy transition. That's absurd. You'd almost say there's something rotting in the state of Holland. One just doesn't match the other. Apparently, there's something in the whole system that's not productive. I have devoted an important part of my contribution to this, as have Mr Ester. From rewriting where we stand, I'm getting more worried. Then I think, "Where's the urgency?" I am not saying that we have all the wisdom in rent, but there really needs to be a movement. I can't detect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u58	The letter states that further sustainability measures are still being considered in the fiscal sense. However, we must also note that taxation is not the only instrument for making the Netherlands more sustainable. It can't be. In fact, one of the most recent introductions of sustainability policy in taxation is car taxes, which were not exactly a high report figure from TNO last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u59	Mr Van Strien put his finger on rising emissions yesterday. When you hear it all, you think: what a forest of regulations. You can then ask yourself: how effective are they? I am not just concerned with the question of whether only taxation applies to this. I asked yesterday, also from the involvement of the wider financial policy, in particular taxation: how much do we still favour the classic raw materials needed for energy? How little do we do, in proportion, in relation to everything that really has to be new and different? I am very curious to know what the Secretary of State thinks about this. In my opinion, we still favour oil and gas in all kinds of ways, and we do very little with solar and wind energy that is even tempered and all kinds of innovations. Apparently, we are in the 42nd place above Belarus. Well, hey, hey, get the cork off the bottle.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u60	The argument that we are subsidising fossil fuels in one way or another is at least questionable. I believe that two years ago, a letter was sent by Kamp and Weekers in response to a report made, among other things, by the Centre for Energy Conservation and Clean Technology in Delft, in which the definition of subsidy was very broad. The largest subsidy concerned the low taxes for large consumers. Other countries also have them because other countries see that if you do not regulate this internationally, industry will disappear but production will continue. Therefore, the savings do not come off the ground. There is therefore little point in imposing very high levies on large consumers, for example, as the only country in Europe. That was stated in that letter and, in my opinion, the Netherlands does not deviate from many other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u61	I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State has taken the first steps in his career in the field of the environment. That's really good for me. That also creates obligations, of course, especially when someone is called to the high office of Secretary of State. Of course, the use of fiscal instruments in relation to the greening of the Netherlands must be effective. I do, however, miss the story of the Secretary of State for the greater perspective on the use of taxation, with all the pluses and minuses that obviously belong to it, in order for the Netherlands to take that necessary step towards a biobased economy, towards a circular economy. Those are terms the Secretary of State himself uses in his own documents. However, that great coherent story is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u62	Colleagues of mine in the cabinet are responsible for that bigger story. Here's the tax tool supplier, but Mansveld and Camp are the ones who have to keep that story. If the tool supplier is also going to tell us what the workpiece should look like, then it might just go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u63	It's the bigger tax story that matters to me. That's the point. I am not talking about the bigger environmental story, but about the bigger tax story behind the use of fiscal instruments to make that move towards a green economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u64	I'd like to broaden it a little bit. The Secretary of State said about the beginning of his career that it was also about checking the environmental impact; I lost the terminology. That is what we mean by sustainability. Sustainability as one of the objectives of that review is not just about nice measures that serve a small green goal. It is precisely that you are looking at the sustainability effects of all tax measures, that you use them as a criterion and that you look at: how can we use all measures, including VAT, including corporation tax, also innovation exemptions and incentives, to contribute to that sustainability and how can we prevent them from having negative sustainability effects? That is what we mean by sustainability as one of the objectives of the tax review. Then it is not, or at least not just about all kinds of small taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u65	I am pleased that we are starting this tax plan to have a discussion on fundamental issues. We all agree that we need to work on the environment. No one here denies that; you can want it to be different. I am a great supporter of the VVD Group, the CDA Group and the Secretary of State when it comes to tax instrumentalism. I would like to limit that as much as possible. You can achieve the environmental objectives very well, not because of taxation, but because of prohibition and commandments. It doesn't cost anything. I would very much like to think in that direction rather than apply the tax spill by broadening the basis or by making it complicated or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u66	I do not have to add much to this. I would like to leave it to my colleagues Mansveld and Kamp to discuss what the real energy and sustainability policy looks like. Sometimes this can be fiscal and sometimes it has to be fiscal, but in many cases it does not. When we look at the greening of the fleet, we see that tax measures have not only been very limited in effectiveness, but also extremely inefficient and that by far the greatest impact is due to European source measures: regulations on the emissions and fuel consumption of cars on the market. It does not seem free, but it is of course not free, but it is a very efficient way of achieving the goal. I cannot give my colleagues a greater view of the environment and sustainability, because that is what they are about. However, my warning will always be to avoid unnecessary fiscal instrumentalisation. Wherever it has to be, it has to be. But then it remains that we have bad experiences with it, that it often leads to inefficiencies or unachieved goals and that you have to push that elephant up the stairs every time in the next ten years to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u67	This might be a good time to talk to the Secretary of State about the upgraded execution test. I have also mentioned the implementation in relation to the waste tax and the whole history we have had on this issue. Perhaps the Secretary of State can say a little more about it at this stage, because it is quite relevant to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u68	Yes, it is. Firstly, the need is enormous. Take, for example, the additional payments that have been made in the news; we will be coming up with them later. They're not post-taxes, in any way. We have introduced something unnecessarily complex, which we might have known if we had studied it properly, but we have not found out. The household allowance is similar. We saw it by the tap water. We are now in the development phase of a wider test throughout the whole chain. Implementation is not just about implementation by the Tax Administration. Others are also in the chain. The taxpayer must also fill in things and answer questions. It is also part of the whole chain of taxation. He's got to find it executable, too. In this way we are working on an execution test that is more complete and more thorough than what we have had so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u69	Again, I am not talking about the environmental objective. I am a little on the line of Mr Reuten in that regard. It concerns the tax system and the fiscal instrumentalism. Last year I had this debate with the predecessor of the Secretary of State. He talked about the environment, VAT and the introduction of postcode roses. At that time I cried in despair if we could perhaps look at the Netherlands a little more as one large zip code instead of all those small variations, however well-meant it may be to create support, to involve and mobilise people. I think that you should look not only at the instrument of VAT exemptions, but also at the whole impact that comes with costs and hours among the users and the advisers around them. Now that we are talking about the environment, I would ask for a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u70	I also have a partial reaction to this. Maybe the Secretary of State can take that. I find it difficult for sustainability to always focus on very small measures whose efficiency is called into question. These measures can be symbolically important and they can be important as drivers. On the contrary, I think it is so important to look at the sustainability effects of all fiscal measures and the tax system. This may also mean that you are setting up measures that you would otherwise take and that do not have a sustainability objective in themselves, in a different way, because they do have sustainability effects. That's what I mean by an integral sustainability test in your tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u71	Mrs De Boer is actually asking for an environmental impact assessment per tax measure. I do not see opportunities for this very quickly, precisely because a lot of measures are not specifically aimed at it and do not have a very significant impact on it either. I think it is a difficult question. I believe that explicit sustainability measures should be required. If you're pursuing a particular goal, you still want to know if you're going to achieve that goal. In general, I would not want to do that, but specific environmental measures obviously require it. Mr Bröcker has asked whether there are areas where you have achieved a great deal of complexity for something that Mrs De Boer would not even call a very small goal. Perhaps I could use Mrs Sent's question as an illustration. Mrs Sent asked what opportunities there are to encourage the generation of renewable energy by small consumers. We have all kinds of measures for this, but the small-scale consumers and the small-scale producers themselves sometimes get headaches. These are in themselves good examples of things that we might have preferred to have kept simpler afterwards. We have the exemption for electricity generated behind the meter. At least, which applies to electricity that you generate yourself, so at your own account and risk, with which we have a whole discussion about account and risk. In this Tax Plan, this measure is extended to the landlords. This has been requested for understandable reasons. It'll be expanded. Then, of course, it's about the netting. Small consumers who produce electricity behind the meter can now also sell it, so they can return it. Then you don't have to pay any delivery costs, energy taxes or VAT on that part. That is, in fact, an additional subsidy, especially in the case of fluctuating use. Then we have the reduced rate for locally sustainably generated electricity. That's introduced by the energy agreement. All in all, that is a whole Christmas tree with possibilities. We have all learned in this Chamber, but also in the media, what complexity that entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u72	I agree with the Secretary of State. However, the question is, if we look one or two years ahead, what have we done with the subject of instrumentalism? How does the Secretary of State use the upgraded execution test towards his colleagues in the cabinet? Perhaps it is an impossible question; I would also like to draw more attention to the whole point. It is right that Secretary of State Wiebes notes that he is the guardian of the tax system. The main objective is to collect taxes and, as far as I am concerned, to limit instrumentalism. I agree with Mr Reuten, who says that there are other ways of achieving the objectives. How does the Secretary of State see that? Can it be given a clear form, both in the development of legislation in this cabinet and in future Cabinets, and in the discussion in the Chamber? It happens to you, I think, when you are dealing with a bill in the House of Representatives and amendments are being tabled. We have seen this in the waste tax, which the Secretary of State says will have to be done. He was talking about the flogging. How can we give this aspect of feasibility more body together within the government, but also when dealing with draft laws, especially in the House of Representatives? Again, in the end, they are political considerations. Often it is frustrating when you are treated in the First Chamber that you have a collective law, where all kinds of things have been introduced. Then you can see that instrumentalism has increased or decreased again. That's my point. That is also the importance of the implementation test. It's not just about developing. How does the Secretary of State see that in practice get more body? I am asking this because of his own position: the guardian of a simple, unambiguous and efficient tax system with a corresponding Tax Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u73	It takes three things. The first is the execution test, which, as has been said, has now often been carried out too messyly, so that we do not find implementation problems. It's gotta be better, but we won't be there by a long shot. If we think in this Chamber that a thorough execution test will prevent all problems from now on, then unfortunately we are wrong about total naivety. Secondly, the resulting costs need to be made transparent. This also means that it is not unreasonable that we should cover the implementation costs arising from amendments which add or change something. In the meantime, I am in the process of making agreements with the House of Representatives. It is actually strange that, if we spend more money, we all have the discipline to ensure that more money comes in or less money goes out elsewhere, except for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. All other execution services can tap out of program money. Of course, the IRS can't do that. He can't partially eat his own income. He can't eat candy from the pot. However, it is remarkable that we have set up the service with the biggest implementation problems in such a way that, if it is given additional tasks, there will not be an automatic budget to carry it out as well. That's not right. The House of Representatives agreed with me. The third thing that is needed, very flat and banal, is one joker in the Chamber who says no to things that deserve no. I'm only experimenting with what happens when I try to be that person. That went well a few times and a few times I've noticed that I have to say no even louder. That's a lot of work, but there's nothing else to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u74	The Secretary of State has not yet explicitly responded to my question as to whether encouraging the generation of renewable energy by small consumers is considered unfair. Then I'm talking about the differences between creating the self and putting it on a school building.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u75	That is also more about the scope of that exemption. I think Mrs De Boer has asked questions about this too. This is addressed in the written documents, but I believe that the questions can be taken together. Mrs De Boer had asked when exactly there is a question of own account and risk. It's very difficult to answer in general. Unfortunately, this is very dependent on the assessment of the facts and circumstances of the individual taxpayer. Indeed, Mrs Sent mentioned the example of someone who, together with others, places solar panels on the roof of a school. It is not attacked as a person who does his own revival, because first of all it is not behind the meter and second of all he does not do it himself, but in a partnership. It is then considered that this is not exempted. If you did, similar cases would also be exempted and all renewable energy suppliers would be covered by that definition. They should all be exempted. The account will soon reach some hundreds of millions of euros a year. That policy is very expensive. So it makes sense to lock that off again with some precision. But every lockdown creates definition issues. That's what makes it complicated. We have also set up energy taxation as a tax, as a means of obtaining money on a certain basis to cover the government's expenditure. It is not purely and simply an incentive instrument. You can see that with taxation. Where you turn it into a purely incentive instrument, revenue often leaks away. At the car we saw that it was more in the direction of an incentive instrument. Well, we've seen that, too. From the point of view of taxation, that was a less fortunate choice. Mr Van Boxtel, whom I will certainly not be offering a technical session, has made it clear that he has difficulty with the concept of supply in the energy tax. I believe that it has also been dealt with in writing, but clearly not enough. Otherwise, Mr Van Boxtel would not have asked that question again. The concept of supply is not defined in the Environmental Tax Act. It's just crystallized in case law. That's how it came about. This is explained in such a way that electricity is supplied when a party loses the power to own the electricity as its owner. You gave it away and then it's "supplied," just like it works in sales tax. Is that unclear? It differs from European concepts in certain respects, but in the opinion of the person I spoke to in response to these questions, not in such a way that it would give rise to more ambiguity. Frankly, I do not understand, but also the people with me, what legal problem Mr Van Boxtel is referring to. I would like to invite him, in some way, in a conversation, in writing or referring to documents, to indicate what the problem is. Then I can also get the right expertise to find an answer to that. Then we can see if there is any residual problem that we should solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u76	These cases are known to you in the department, because all kinds of lawyers and law firms have turned to everyone about them. They point out that all these savings can't really be rolled out properly and may only be limited to housing corporations. You'd like to apply it to several things. Apparently, there is confusion about the possibilities it offers, because a different definition is given in the Netherlands than in the European directives. That confusion cannot continue. You need to create clarity for all those who want to be eligible for this. We're not doing that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u77	I agree with Mr Van Boxtel that there should be clarity on these basic issues. But the people I get to the table about this, both from the theory and from the practice, believe that clarity is there. I do not want to say that there is, because Mr Van Boxtel does not think so. I'm still looking for that. So it's too early for judgment. However, I invite him to help me in one way or another in the search for where ambiguity may be. I fully agree, of course, with the starting point. If it hangs on this kind of thing, it's mortally sinful and has a certain innocence that I don't like. I'm as far from a lawyer as the Earth of the Moon. When it comes to legal concepts and therefore something does not come about, I really am not at peace with that. His call is valuable in that sense. I'd rather stop where the technical possibilities end. Legally, I never want to quit. I support the speech, but I would ask Mr Van Boxtel to help me point out some moment after this session where I have to look for the ambiguity. Then we can zoom in on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u78	May I ask the Secretary of State how much longer he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u79	I'm gonna hurry real fast. Mr. Van Boxtel has...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u80	Yes, but how much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u81	I'm at 60%. Shall I try to speed up the pace? I need some help with that, because speaking time also goes to the Members who are sitting in the Chamber. They are speaking about their speaking time, not their speaking time. Mr Van Boxtel asks why there is no distinction between fossil energy and renewable energy in energy taxation. That's exactly the system we used to have, with certificates. By the way, these have not led to additional renewable energy generation, but to a paper trade in Norwegian hydropower. If you want to do this properly and nationally, to really enforce the construction of sustainable capacity, you have to levy an input tax. But this input tax is not allowed at European level. That's what we're talking about. It's a consumption tax. At the moment, this is not going to fly within the regulations, unless we repeat the experiment a few years ago. However, this has not led to major successes. Mr Van Boxtel also asks why the exemption on energy taxation in the case of self-generation of renewable energy from tenants has such a small loss. The estimate is that tenants are less hot for this than buyers, significantly less. This is partly due to the fact that they are tenants, which are in any case less investment prepared than buyers. Furthermore, household and housing types do not always lend themselves to it. An apartment building seems to have an attractive flat roof, but that is shared with many. That leaves little roof for each person.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u82	This reasoning is self-demotivating. If you want tenants to become interested in the transition to renewable energy, you should broaden it and be able to apply more. Now I see those amounts. I mentioned them in the first term. They are extremely limited and probably only through the use of housing associations, not wider. So I don't understand why that creepy approach is in there. I think it's a strange argument if you say that's what you think, because tenants aren't gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u83	I would like to add that this possibility for landlords is an option for verhúurders. It therefore questions not so much the willingness of the tenants but the willingness of the landlords. We should be able to bet that it gets a little bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u84	With the housing corporations, you have to have it from the single-family homes. The square meter roof per inhabitant is smaller in other types of housing, such as multi-layered types and flats. There the possibilities are more limited. It is bottom-up: according to house types and type of investors an estimate has been made. It's coming out of this. There's no normative judgment behind it. We don't want to advise or advise people with this. A possibility has been created at the request of many and it has been estimated that it would lead to this use. Maybe we're wrong about that. Maybe the interest is much greater. But this is the assessment now. Maybe that's a mistake. It could still be. I can't say. Mrs Sent asks what I will do when "something unusual" happens in the energy tax. With something unusual in the mineralogic and metallurgical industries, she quotes me. I find it difficult to answer that, because I don't know what I'm going to do if something happens that I don't know yet what that might be. It really depends on what that is. However, the commitment to monitor this has been made because there has been some concern. All kinds of things can happen that you may and may not be able to do something about. In any case, the intention is not to confront the Chamber with surprises, as we have seen before, and to inform the Chamber in good time if something unexpected seems to happen that something should happen about it. That's the plan. At the latest in the chapter on sustainability, an opinion was asked about the investigation, alleged by the big four audit firms. The investigation doesn't belong to the big four audit firms. The research was done by people who work there, in their own right, by individuals. The firms didn't take responsibility for that. It's an individual initiative. The vision that speaks of this can only be realised in an international context. That's what the play says. We see a number of movements that we cannot realize nationally. Anyone who asks me to increase all fuel taxes by €0.55 will understand what my reaction is to that. This means an increase in diesel taxes by more than 100%. It means increasing LPG excise duties by 300%. Everyone knows how much time I have spent explaining that the border effects are considerable, but that the increase in excise duty has led to higher yields. If I now have to go to the border under surveillance, I am not waiting for an increase of another 300%. In the case of large consumers, employment also plays a role in the case of natural gas, an increase of 600%, an increase of 6,000% in the case of electricity. Those are things you don't do in isolation, because the Netherlands is not an island. That's literally what that letter says. We have to take that into account, because we are only about our country and not about neighbouring countries. That narrows it down. That's exactly what that report says. Not a bad word about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u85	Mind if I cut in a little bit? I'm gonna take a look at the clock. We have a Christmas dinner scheduled between 6:50 p.m. and 7:50 p.m. I'm stretching it a little bit, but I...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u86	I'll go even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, I say that I will suspend for Christmas dinner at 7 p.m. anyway. Otherwise, the rest of you will be sitting there waiting for us to come down sometime. Then we'll be back in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u88	That's clear. Several groups have spoken about the international tax environment. They have given the impression that there is pressure on the Netherlands in relation to the OECD BEPS project and in relation to the European agenda to prevent tax abuse. There's no denying that. At the same time, it is a truth as a cow that there is pressure on everyone and that we are also putting pressure on each other. Anti-abuse has come in a huge rapidity in international perspective. Things have been realized that the Netherlands had been on its wish list for years. Then you can think of the astonishing pace with which banking secrecy disappears and the rapid pace with which international data exchange is suddenly starting. That is what we have been advocating for years. Everyone's putting pressure on everyone. The Netherlands likes to be part of this adventure, because several things have always extremely disturbed and harmed the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a supporter of the fight against tax avoidance and is also working hard in this OECD project. The fact that the Netherlands is called a lot is no wonder because the Netherlands is a very international country. We have one of the best tax climates and branch climates in the world. Huge amounts of headquarters are here. In an international country, you have a lot of international tax cases. The attitudes of the Netherlands are two. On the one hand, we are offensive and we want to be ahead in a number of areas. We have announced that we want to be a leader in the automatic exchange of rulings data between tax administrations of different countries. On the other hand, we must make it clear from time to time that certain measures are really unwise. Not rarely they are not necessarily unwise for the Netherlands but for Europe. We'll meet up with some later. Mrs Sent specifically asks how the Parent-Subsidiary Directive has ended. Why did the Netherlands agree when it did not do so before? Earlier, we did not do this for a very formal reason: there was a parliamentary reservation. Then you don't agree. In substance, this gave us time to examine whether there was sufficient clarity in the general anti-abuse clause. We still do not think that it is a jewel of clarity, but we have two beliefs. The first is that there will be more clarity over time. That provision shall apply. There's a case law. There will be clarity in the statements. The second is that, in parallel with that, the OECD project is still running. Perhaps we should have waited for that to happen, but that is no different now. This OECD pathway comes to a conclusion in 2015. Perhaps the Dutch Presidency can even be used in the first half of 2016 to implement the clarity of the OECD pathway in that legislative process. We have therefore chosen to continue to be part of this adventure, to participate and not to go against it, in the belief that this clarity will not ultimately prove to be a dominant and structural disadvantage. The innovation boxes immediately arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u89	I'd like to go back to the innovation boxes. Thank you for the clear answers. I am also pleased that we have made it explicit: we are in, but we are not crazy either; we are also committed to maintaining a good locational environment in relation to others. I think that's clear. In NRC Handelsblad an article was published two weeks ago suggesting that the Netherlands even used its separate position as a marketing tool to get new branches. I think it is important to know in this house whether that suggestion is correct or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u90	No. The best marketing tool is when the Netherlands participates actively in combating abuse where it really has to be done and on files that really do not make its position really bad. But just hanging out doesn't always lead to a good result, because it creates uncertainty about the future of the Dutch fiscal environment and uncertainty is always bad for any location climate. On the contrary, we are not trying to create uncertainty. It is also very cheap as a marketing instrument. So no, that's not the bet and it wouldn't work either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u91	Returning to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, I would like to say the following. In itself, the objectives of combating improper use are fine. These are general anti-abuse provisions. But I am concerned about the concern that you are going to take steps back together within Europe to ensure that the source country, the country from which a dividend or interest payment is made to another country, is increasingly given wider discretion with regard to the interpretation of anti-abuse provisions. We are talking about a balance between large and small countries. The big countries are clearly moving for good things, but sometimes also for a bit of self-interest. Where are we when it comes to introducing objective criteria? What case law is to be expected? I can assure the Secretary of State that the international business community is not waiting for this; that may take a number of years. In other words, taking a very practical look at the balance in anti-abuse provisions: what are the criteria in this area and how can differences of opinion be resolved in a good and quick way, i.e. the tax treaty with Japan as an example?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u92	In all honesty, if we could have written that directive ourselves, we would have made it clearer. The Dutch tax climate has always been good thanks to ex ante clarity. Nothing inauspicious, but clear from the beginning. That is a very legitimate marketing tool. Who's against clarity in advance? This offers less, but the belief is that it will grow after some time. A compromise has been reached, which is not acceptable to anyone who has looked at this in depth. Of course, this has also been discussed with all kinds of industry specialists. It's an unfortunate disadvantage that will resolve in time. However, once again, we would like the OECD to give more details so that this can be incorporated into the current practice. Then there is clarity for everyone, preferably in advance. The innovation box is an example of a file on which the Netherlands objects. It is not even an objection that applies purely to the Netherlands. Yes, we like to defend our locational environment, but the arguments we have apply equally to the whole of Europe. There the S&D ticks, i.e. the research and development aspects that are not just patent-related, threaten to be excluded from the innovation box, because it becomes a real patent box. There are three things about patents: in some sectors, patents do not play at all, you see a greater concentration of patents in large companies compared to smaller companies, which could create an uneven playing field if you exclude non-patent-related research and development, and there is a trend in some sectors to stop applying for patents, because developments are going so fast that you don't worry about a patent anymore. But those are the fastest developing sectors where you do the most research and development. We believe that this is an old-fashioned implementation of the innovation box, which is not at all in the interest of the EU 2020 agenda. We have put that forward, for which we have certainly met understanding. We will do our best to do so. So we have embraced the proposals for the innovation box, and we can agree to all kinds of aspects of it. But we're still working on this. This is now happening within the OECD. We hope that we can convince the other countries that it is also in their interest to define research and development beyond patents.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u93	Another question in this context is whether all development activities should also take place in the Netherlands. Now it is also conceivable that they will take place abroad. Do these threaten to be lost, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u94	That is not an advantage, especially since it can be a trigger for a difference between large and small countries. That disadvantage has been considered in detail. This was also the subject of a very detailed discussion with industry. It has been chosen to accept this, because here too the idea is that it is not a predominantly and important disadvantage. Also here: if we could have made it up ourselves, we would have done it differently. We actually believe that it can be in the interests of other countries to do this differently. Now it is eligible if it is Dutch research and not if it is German research. That's kind of weird. It is not the same within the group as it is with a third party. That creates differences that I wouldn't have invented myself. But again, in the balance and in the whole of things it seems wise to focus on broadening the definition and shift of patents to non-patents. That's what we're focusing on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u95	That is a good reason to repeat the question I asked about democratic legitimacy. What influence does the Dutch Parliament still have? There are all kinds of negotiations, there will be final reports and there will be a multilateral agreement, then there will be nothing more to negotiate in bilateral treaties, but what about decision-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u96	Well, a lot will, of course, have to be implemented in national rules. Fortunately, we have a parliament for that. But bilateral treaties are also coming along, as are multilateral treaties. In the end, this comes through the parliament when it is implemented. That is, of course, at the end and not at the beginning. That has always been the case in the treatment of treaties. Several times we have said: we are hearing these wishes now, but the negotiations are actually already closed. Breaking open is a cost. The fact that Parliament is not at the beginning, but at the end can be a disadvantage. On the other hand, we hold extensive discussions on the Ecofin as far as possible at the beginning. We owe this to the parliamentary reservation of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. Moreover, there are even yellow maps of the Chamber on certain international proposals. So there's an influence on that. Mrs Sent does not think that a double non-taxation is the intention. Of course, I can't disagree with her. But she asks whether I agree that the Netherlands is part of the problem and that it should become part of the solution. I find that simplistic. Tax avoidance, tax planning and tax constructions arise mainly because of differences between systems. By definition, everyone is part of a possible problem and a possible solution. Against the idea that the Netherlands is now only participating in one container and not in the other, I must resist. The Netherlands is at the forefront in a number of areas. We have always advocated the development of binding rules within the Union: hard law. We now have that same position in the rulings. Furthermore, we have taken the step to incorporate the anti-abuse provisions into 23 treaties with developing countries and are warming other countries up to do so. Mr Van Boxtel asked whether it was working with those substance requirements in relation to developing countries. Of course, it's a little short notice to be able to say something about that. They haven't been around that long, so I don't really have a measurement of that yet. It's also a bit of a matter of definition. In order to answer the question whether developing countries miss tax due to circumvention via the Netherlands, it is just what rate you take as the basis. One report gives a very different picture of this than the other. All in all, I don't manage to quantify that well. Mr Van Boxtel did say that the Court of Auditors believes that it is not difficult to meet the substance requirements. For real substance it shouldn't be difficult, because of course we want it here. On the other hand, it should be impossible for non-real substances. There is a limit between them; that too is a question of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u97	For everything, it's a matter of discussion. I'm gonna go with the Secretary of State when he says it's all pretty short. Yeah, I bet you do. My pain is not in the fact that we are going to act like crazy Henkie and are about to lose all kinds of beautiful companies and institutions that find it tax-technically interesting to settle in the Netherlands. I welcome that in itself. However, we also know that companies in a few areas in very low-wage countries succeed in the opposite. Think of Bangladesh when it comes to the clothing industry; everyone is morally extremely indignant about child labour there and the people who make cheap T-shirts there under terrible conditions. In the meantime, the people are set up in rots of three when a new clothing store opens up that brings all that to the market. It is not a question of being the sex master but of asking for an active attitude of the Dutch government on this issue, including in our fiscal policy, in countering that reverse path. What is leaking through taxation must be returned with development cooperation money. That's weird. I hope you will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u98	Yeah, I'm not doing that alone. I also believe that that is exactly what we are now actively pursuing, for example with the 23 developing countries that we are giving a larger share of cake in the treaty negotiations. We also include anti-abuse measures. Mr Bröcker asked how these countries would react. Some responded somewhat surprised but positive. The first reactions are positive. Many of the countries are still studying it. I believe that we have now approached 22 of the 23 countries. These are studying this. I have to say, of course, that our expertise is often greater than on the other hand, and that we have sometimes come up with solutions, even though they may not have yet recognized the problems. This is the policy that is entirely in that spirit, and we continue to do so. So I wholeheartedly support that. Mr Bröcker asked about EU harmonisation of corporate tax bases. He's asking, I think, about the CCCTB. The joint... or isn't he asking? He's walking to the microphone right now to tell me what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u99	Mr Bröcker, I would like a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u100	I'll be very brief. No, that alphabet soup could cause some confusion. My question focuses more on the harmonization of foundations. Several proposals have been made in the past. You can harmonise your corporate tax base to calculate your tax result in the same way. You can go one step further and have a tariff discussion. I don't know if we're waiting for that. In the EU, the debate has also been launched to make a single declaration in the EU countries and to designate a country that distributes tax revenues among the countries in the group concerned. That's not a good idea either. I was purely concerned with harmonizing the foundations, in other words, what you call a loan in one country is also called a loan in another country. At the moment, there are different qualifications. There are all kinds of differences in the way foundations are calculated. I suspect that will soon be discussed in the European Union. How's the Secretary of State in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u101	The Netherlands also participates actively in the BEPS-route, which I believe is route 6. If weird shortcuts arise purely as a result of different definitions, the Netherlands likes to be part of the coalition to fight things that you really have to call abuse. There are, of course, a number of other initiatives in Europe. As far as the harmonised corporate tax base is concerned, we have played it up to and including the yellow card. There is a new initiative now, but our views on it have not changed. We believe that the effects of the proposals we have seen for this purpose are both unreasonable and detrimental to the Netherlands. Mrs Sent asks whether we are prepared to respond to the recommendations of the General Court. One was to inform every new tax treaty about anti-abuse. That seems very sensible. Another is to inform Parliament periodically about the locational environment, the financial flows involved, etc. In principle, I say yes, let's try it; let's practice it over the next few years. However, the Court's recommendations in relation to the flow of funds, the climate of location and the impact of the measures are so complex that I do not want to see the expectations too high. We have the idea that the General Court also overestimates the reporting in its explanatory effect. But let's just try it out. So basically, yes. Mr Essers asked whether there was any point in giving parliamentarians insight into the content of rulings issued in a confidential procedure. We should not be ashamed of our ruling practice. We don't have anything to hide either. The Court of Auditors recently gave us an 8.5, and so did the European Commission. One of the 13 rulings examined raised a question on one of its aspects. That's all it is. We believe that we have nothing to hide, but I do feel very little about the systematic provision of rulings of individual cases to Parliament. First of all, we're playing with something big. Companies must have maximum confidence that their confidential information will also remain confidential. Without that confidence that is at the basis of taxation, the levy is also a failure. We have to be very careful about that. We have devoted whole articles to this in the General Law on state taxes. That's not unknown. Secondly, there is the fact that the comfort of confidentiality is also crucial in the business environment. We have always said: security in advance is a great asset. Pre-security lands in the rulings. If you now create doubts about confidentiality, you also make parties afraid to ask for that security in advance, and then that big but also legitimate benefit of the Dutch tax environment might be lost. Of course, that's the opposite...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u102	Mr Essers, I see you're trying to interrupt, but we're not going to do that right now. I'm going to suspend. You just need to get the hell out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u103	But then it comes back after dinner break?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u104	It'll come back after dinner, but you need to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u105	I've only got one page left here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u106	Okay, can you do that one leaf in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u107	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u108	Well, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u109	On the other hand, of course, the First Chamber and the Second Chamber must be able to exercise their controlling function, but I think there are a lot of methods for that. We have seen the investigation of the General Court of Auditors. The General Court of Auditors is allowed to snoop into any closet and see everything. That's a big good. Of course you can organise something for this in individual cases, but I do say that it must be an individual case with a particular reason and with a high quality of balance between the democratic interest and the individual right to maximum confidentiality. The third point I could offer, but not all my offers in this sense have so far become a success is that in a technical session with the APA/ATR team in Rotterdam, anonymised rulings could also be examined to see what that looks like. It's not a simple matter, I'll warn the interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u110	Mr Essers may ask a short question about this, but I really want to suspend for dinner later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u111	I can buy a lot of time with this question. Would the Secretary of State want to work out what he has just said very briefly in a note? Of course, it's very sensitive matter. I fully agree with him that confidentiality should be at the top of the list. On the other hand, Parliament's right of control is also a great asset. I do not want to touch on Article 67 at all, but I do want to see the possibilities that the Secretary of State has just outlined, a little more elaborate, to see how we can take that one step further. It is in the interests of the credibility of the rule-making policy that we also give parliamentarians as much as possible, or at least offer comfort, not to have to look at a full black box. The Secretary of State is prepared to share those rulings with foreign tax authorities. Let us try to find a way to meet Parliament in this regard too. If we can look at a note on that, I think we can cut a whole discussion short.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u112	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u113	That's a lovely short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u114	Mr. Chairman. I left one more question unanswered before dinner break. Mr Nagel is still entitled to an answer, because he has advocated an extended exemption from the gift tax. He is concerned about people who, in his view, are unable to manage the administrative handling of a gift this year, thereby making use of the extended possibilities. I'm not very inclined to meet that. The scheme has been known for over a year. Everyone has known for more than a year that this ended on 31 December. There is a high level of awareness of the scheme. Things have been done about that, too. In October there was an additional call to make timely use of the scheme. My colleague Dijsselbloem has called on the banks to carry out the administrative work as long as possible in the year. I am not prepared to accept an extension of the scheme. This would also mean a legislative amendment, a novel and a further financial loss. This question could have been answered before the break, but it has now been answered. With this, I'm out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u115	Thank you. However, Mr Essers has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u116	Dinner break may have put it in a tribulation, but I had asked another question about the government's estimates. In the case of income, there is always a tendency to overestimate it, while costs are estimated too low. The question was whether Parliament could participate in the uncertainties that are always raised in the case of estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u117	That's right. Apologies for that. Your question was about the margins of security of estimates. If you make predictions every year or with a large frequency and know the results, you can at some point estimate the uncertainty margin. However, these are often such one-off things that there is no clear margin of uncertainty. There is only an estimate to be made, as good and as angry as that goes. For example, we estimate how many tenants or landlords are willing to use a certain subsidy scheme. In this way, it is best known and can be estimated what a particular measure will entail in relation to housing corporations. That'll come out 500, while the answer turns out to be 10. That's because all kinds of non-repetitive things happen that you don't expect. It is therefore not possible to indicate from precisely the most uncertain estimates what the margin of uncertainty is, because it is one-off cases and there is no possibility of statistically establishing the margin of uncertainty. It is of course possible to give insight into the assumptions. Then everyone can judge the reasonableness of these assumptions. I can't think of it other than that. Of course, we all have the 500 and the 10 in mind as an example; that was also implied yesterday. However, a margin of uncertainty cannot be calculated purely technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u118	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is unsatisfactory? On the basis of estimates of this kind, many important decisions are taken, for example in cabinet formations or in accountability to the European Commission. If you don't let go of the probability factor, I understand that that is difficult, but every statistical approach always has a certain margin, so what is the value of CPB calculations, to name but a few? Another example, which has been mentioned several times, is the 1 billion additional dividend tax revenue due to the reduction of the box 2 tariff. That too is very uncertain. What are the consequences if these estimates do not come true?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u119	I'd like to take over the word "unsatisfying." The statistical accident is that we can't estimate it. However, there is also statistical happiness. In fact, if you put and add up all the uncertain amounts, each of which has a sometimes known and sometimes unknown uncertainty, in a government budget, the total as a percentage is considerably less uncertain than each of the items separately. This is, of course, a statistical data which the CPB and our budgeters are grateful to use. This means that we in the Netherlands often find ourselves within rather narrow bands, where we want to go. Once in a while, a crisis breaks down and things don't turn out to be statistically independent. Those are the moments when we pee firmly next to them, but on average, uncertainties cancel each other out and the final outcome is best seen. Of course, there were few people who anticipated the credit crisis. There were a few of them. They also wrote a book about it, which was sold very well. However, I do not think that anyone in this Chamber thinks that we should have been able to predict this crisis or to incorporate it into the margins of uncertainty. I think this is the situation as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u120	There was another question that I asked at the very end of my speech. I suspect that low-income people, due to the accounting rules of the payroll tax in 2015, pay €260 too much tax. They might get it back through their Ib declaration, but it is not common for people on very low incomes to do so. Is this suspicion correct? If so, what can the Secretary of State do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u121	I did not answer that question. I also think that Mr Van Boxtel has asked for something similar. He asked whether the side payments in 2015 were okay. In principle, it is not quite a year, because we have a system that can handle only a limited number of things. Especially for the special rewards we have tables. There are so strange noddings in the reduction and build-up of tax rebates that it always goes a little bit wrong for the special reward. That's inherent in that. So we skipper every year. It's the same every year; it's never different. We've never made a secret of that. Of course, a little more has been done in the last year. That's fixed. So there will not be too much boating in 2015, but it will of course continue to be a bit skippering precisely at the point that Mr Reuten has put forward. This is most difficult in low incomes, because there is a very steep build-up of the labour cut. It's a very steep build-up. That means that all the tables for the special rewards there go rücksichtslos, every year. That is a weakness that is inherent in this. It's the same every year. This year, too, this is not entirely in line. Mr Reuten asked for this. Thus, the nod points in the construction of the path towards a reduction in working hours provide marginal rates that are very strange and different. For example, there is a group that will in principle improve purchasing power in 2015 compared to 2014. That is the group of people with an income between €0 and €20,000. This group will increase purchasing power in 2015 compared to the group with an income above €20,000. He's gonna pay less income tax. However, income tax and income tax are not mutually exclusive. So there is either a refund with the declaration or an additional payment. At the explicit request of the House of Representatives, we will not allow it to come to an additional payment this year, but these people will get something back. On average, after the end of 2015, people from that group get roughly just over €100 back at the beginning of 2016. This is for that group, depending on the case, up to €270. That's what those people get back from the 2015 tax return in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u122	For those people, €260 is always a little more than for you and for me, but how do they get that money back? It's not common for those people to fill out an Ib form. So the question is how they can cash that, if they already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u123	They will be invited to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u124	By the IRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u125	Yes, for example, we are now also sending letters to people saying that there is a chance that they will have to pay extra and that they will have to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u126	Do you make a commitment that people who find it difficult to read complicated forms can claim this in a simple way?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u127	This is an extremely complex field. I'm gonna check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u128	Good. If you know, will you give me a note? Or can the committee get a note?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u129	If one motion has already been tabled, I shall now put it to the House that I will have to discuss it. After that discussion, I will come up with the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u130	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u131	We now come to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the officials for the clear answer to our written and oral questions and for the open debate we have had. I'll start the blessings to good use. After that, I'll express some concerns. I will end with criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u133	And all that in eight minutes, tops?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u134	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u135	I think this is the reverse order of events in the church. That's where it starts with criticism. Then come the points of criticism and then the blessings follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u136	Yes, but this has to do with the final voting opinion I will issue, Mr Van Boxtel. So I'm just gonna warn the Chamber. The blessings, however, are no less serious. I am pleasantly surprised by the Secretary of State's attitude towards fiscal instrumentalism. I think there is very little difference of opinion on that point. You can, of course, discuss the pace at which things have to take place. I'll get back to you in a minute. However, I believe that we need to reduce, as far as possible, the burden of taxation which complicates it, creates tension with the principle of equality and makes it impossible for the Tax Administration to do so. I think that we should take a very critical look at environmental taxes in this regard. I too am in favour of a sustainable system, but I think it is a sign that the Netherlands is the third in Europe, no matter how much you can comment on these lists of environmental taxes. I therefore believe that the question is right whether the effectiveness is as great as we think it is or whether these are simply ordinary increases in charges. We also agree on the main objective of the tax review, which is to reduce the wedge. We need to reduce labour costs. In this respect, I believe that the main difference in opinion is the pace at which it must take place. Another blessing is the response of the Secretary of State to my question on how the ruling policy, which must take place in all confidentiality, relates to the department's control role. I welcome the answer from the Secretary of State, because on the one hand I think it is prudent, but on the other hand I also think it is sensible to understand the situation of Parliament. I'm very happy with the promised note. I expect it to come as soon as possible, but at least in the spring, so that we can deal with it in this composition. I would like to include the role of Article 68 of the Constitution. It says that, if a parliament wants information, you must accept this request, unless a state interest opposes it. How does that relate to those rulings, without compromising the confidentiality of the information, which would ultimately make us worse in terms of competitiveness? Now I go into something of a completely different order, but anyone who does not honor the details cannot handle the big picture either. I come to speak about the legal solution that has been promised for the situation of shelters and the functioning of the partner schemes in the taxation and surcharges. I'm glad there's a legal solution. I am somewhat surprised that there was no practical solution, because if it is legally possible, it should actually be possible. At least that's what it looks like. I would like to know what the deadline is for this. The Secretary of State says he's coming up with a legislative change next year. I can assume that it will work back as generously as possible, so that as few people as possible are confronted with the difficult situation that they become partners with someone they don't know at all. My concern has to do with the entire BEPS development. I appreciate the attitude of the Netherlands in the debate on the law, but I cannot escape the impression that there is an uphill battle going on between the small countries and the large countries. The Secretary of State mentioned the example of the innovation box. I have the feeling that Germany and the United Kingdom have played a one-two here. The United Kingdom, in particular, still has some explaining to do here, because it actually had a box similar to ours. We can try what we want, but ultimately we pay in terms of position. That is what these big countries want, because they have a great tax background and we only have a small tax area. I am seriously concerned about the role of democracy. Soon we will be presented with conclusions that are more or less fulfilled facts and then we will be drawing at the cross. I sincerely hope that we will be involved in this process as much as possible so that we can make our contribution. Now I come with the criticism. Of course there is. It would be crazy after my first-term input if I were just praised now. We are very critical of the fact that this cabinet does not wish to reverse the tax increases in recent years in this Tax Plan. On the contrary, there are additional burdens. Two major increases that we have already made in the past are excise duties and landlord taxes. Excise duties are now being indexed again. I understand this is not happening in Germany. Relatively, the position in the border region is therefore deteriorating again. Furthermore, I have not yet heard from the Secretary of State about the landlord's tax. I know it's under another ministry, but the Secretary of State represents the government. I insist that the landlord levy is very bad for developments in the housing market. We have recently seen the reports that housing corporations hold large reserves. They should actually use them for investments, but they only reserve them for the charges in the landlord's tax scheme. Something really should be done about that. The Secretary of State has already said something about the people with residual debts prior to 29 October 2012. I understand that the regulation currently in place is intended only to promote the flow of funds. However, what are we doing with people who are really in trouble and who are "under water," but who just happened to have bought a new home before 29 October 2012? After all, they're gonna want another place to live. Finally, I would like to comment on the speed of the reform of the system. I very much hope that this Secretary of State will continue to tackle the road of Treub and Pierson, that he will look at the needs of time and come up with a serious reform of the system in the short term. In the letter in which he announces the reform of the system, he says that we should not expect a new Big Bang. I think that's only realistic, but it shouldn't be a firefighter either. The system needs a thorough review. We really hope that, when dealing with the forthcoming Tax Plan, there will be a plan in which not only a very small step is taken. We hope that this is a good plan that will enable us to move forward in the coming years. That brings me to a final weighing-up. I appreciate the good efforts of the cabinet, but the cabinet makes different choices than we would have made. As an alternative to the increase in charges, we preferred to see a reduction in expenditure. That is why we cannot agree to this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u137	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his effective response. In the first place, I come to ignoring the households..... usually these are people who are only households..... with an income of less than 63% of the statutory minimum wage. I think it would be a good idea to hold a technical consultation on this subject, with on the one hand a representative of the Ministry of Finance, a representative of the CBS and a representative of the CPB and, on the other hand, the members of the Finance Commission who wish to do so. Then we have to see if we are going to have another written consultation on this. I think that's an excellent idea. I want to know two more things about this. I would like to know whether the CPB's passing on of the electoral programmes and the counter-budgets in recent years has also happened with the assumption that the lower 10% is excluded. That brings me to a political point. The fact that the poorest 10% is not taken into account makes the income gap appear to be smaller than in reality. First of all, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this is actually the case, but I do not think we can have a difference of opinion on this. Secondly, I'd like to hear what he thinks about that. Then I come to the pressure of taxes and other compulsory taxes on gross income. I think it would be a good idea to have a discussion on this in a corresponding setting as well. In this case I do not think it is necessary for someone from the CPB to be present, but of course I have no objection to it at all. As far as I am concerned, the expertise should be a representative of Finance and one of the CBS. Such consultations may also be followed by written consultations. Given the time we usually have on Tuesdays, it seems good to separate the two sessions. They have nothing to do with each other either. The last point I mentioned was in the context of the revision of the tax system. I would like to make one more point. The Secretary of State easily switched to indirect taxes. He said these taxes are slightly disruptive. If I am right, however, I would like to say it from my mind, the OECD is the first least distorting tax, in particular the tax on real estate. This does not imply that the rest does not fall under a less distorting tax category. To some extent, all taxes are, of course, disruptive. The government says she wants to tax according to capacity. Have we ever talked about what this means? You can set some kind of criterion for that. Let me mention just one thing: a difference in tax rates of 10 percentage points or 5 percentage points per quarter, including everything. So it goes from 25% to 30%, 35% and 40%. What are we thinking about when we are talking about taxation in terms of carrying capacity? Are you saying that everyone should be able to live a little bit of it in the end? That's different. Then we come more into the sphere of services and assistance. I do not think we are coming out of it today, but I do find it interesting if the Secretary of State makes a small move on the question of what to mean by taxes in terms of carrying capacity. This brings us back to the one Mr Essers mentioned yesterday, namely Treub. Then I come to instrumentalism. It is interesting, however, that in this Chamber, I do not know how it is across the street, there is agreement between the CDA Group, the VVD Group, my group and the Secretary of State on this point. As far as I'm concerned, we're going through with that. Anything the Secretary of State should take care of, I think he should go through the other ministries. As I just said, it's the simplest way to do it through commandments and prohibitions. In conclusion, since the Secretary of State is so efficient, it is pleasant to debate with him. We haven't had a lot of debate, but I thought it was a pleasant debate. Then it's always a little tricky. It is clear where everyone stands at some point. I've had a lot of that with VVDs. I like that very much. I like that more than anything in between. I know where the Secretary of State is. I also know where the VVD Group is in this Chamber. We are not quite there, but then you can have a good debate. We believe that the Secretary of State also knows that there is too little tax on capital, both in the area of income distribution and in the area of capital distribution. As long as that is the case, I will continue to advise my group to vote against the Tax Plan, but with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u138	That was a nice lock of the eight minutes you completed exactly, Mr Reuten. I now give the floor to Mr Bröcker.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u139	Mr. Chairman. Respectfully opposed votes is a new variant that Mr Reuten introduces into the Chamber. I remember that when I was allowed to deal with a tax plan here for the first time, the SP Group supported it at that time. It is a pity that this line will not be extended at the end of this parliamentary term. Speaking of support, I must honestly say that I find the voting opinion that Mr Essers from the CDA Group will be presenting a little remarkable. I think that, in general terms, there is a very decent cooperation here. We have here a policy-poor Tax Plan and we have a Secretary of State who wants to look fairly broad for support and, in particular, capacity in relation to the system review. In this context, I regret that the CDA Group has drawn this conclusion, but let me say so. I'd like to come back to a few things. I would like to mention the international aspect. With regard to treaty policy, whether multilateral or bilateral, whether it is the EU, OECD or OECD platform, I know that the dynamics are strong, I have said that we must continue to strive for as objective criteria as possible for burden sharing and for decent processes in order to provide rapid clarity to those concerned in the event of differences of opinion. Once again, we understand the dynamics and pressure that Mr Van Boxtel has already referred to, but we want to continue to emphasise this. I'm coming to the information exchange. I am curious to hear about the seizure of the tax authorities, because there are a lot of data and information being exchanged. I can imagine that this will have a fairly large impact on the Tax Administration. Perhaps the Secretary of State could make one more comment on that, if he so wishes. Otherwise, I'll just mark it as a concern. Again: the direction and the actions in it are fine. I also think that we can make a breakthrough in the communication about our tax policy, in particular our ruling policy, for a better and clearer understanding of this by Parliament, the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. I think that we can communicate a little more clearly and then debate it, if necessary. The report of the General Court is a rather unique document. I must say that I respect the way in which all this has been collected. It is a very impressive overview of the practice. In the very distant past, I have also been in the practice of the tax advice. I can only say that I congratulate you on this. Eventually I read a revised version with track changes and that is a very valuable document. This may also be part of a periodic exchange between the Secretary of State and the House of Representatives and, where necessary, the First Chamber on the tax aspects of our establishment policy. We're on the defensive. Again, I don't talk about abuse. In general, the Netherlands is as a small country in the defensive. I think that we should have a broader constructive discussion in that consultation on one of the choices mentioned by the Secretary of State in his letter of formal notice. We talked about the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. I think the Secretary of State has presented a fair and realistic picture. I share Mr Essers' concerns about the position of the Netherlands in that very large field of forces. I come to the issue of the basis for harmonisation. In my opinion, that was not the proposal that ever came to us, the proposal for which a yellow card has been drawn in the House of Representatives and I think in the House of First Instance too. It is more a fundamental discussion about whether you can harmonise a little more the basis on which you calculate corporation tax per country. It is an issue that we expect to be explicitly on the agenda. I hope that we know very well how we intend to work on this in the Netherlands for this discussion. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the good transparent discussion on fiscal instrumentalism. We note that there is broad support for the concept, but the practice is still quite uncomfortable. That is also what I indicated in the first term. Even in the debate we have had today, you will hear it again. I ask the Secretary of State to do this. If we are a little further on with the upgraded performance test, can this be explicitly discussed in this Chamber and especially in the House of Representatives? Maybe we can support that here with a motion. In general, we do not want to table too many motions here, but this might be a good follow-up to the motion that we tabled last year. I would like to thank the Secretary of State once again and close with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u140	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I also thank colleagues for their contributions to our ritual. At best, we've all listened to each other very carefully. There is, of course, no change in the short term. I hope that at least one thing will change, and that is that the cabinet is going to measure a number of things objectively. The Secretary of State has given the impression of wanting to move in that direction. In the first place, my group is thinking of the border effects of increases in excise duties. Secondly, she thinks of the total energy consumption, directly and indirectly, of cars in relation to the car tax system. On this point, too, the Secretary of State has made concrete commitments. Thirdly, my group is thinking of the real cost to the citizen of what I would call windmill syndrome. In this hope I feel strengthened by the seasonal wishes I received last week from Kees le Pair, a well-known physicist, former general director of STW and, if I am correct, a party colleague of the Secretary of State. In his Christmas and New Year's wishes, he quoted two famous physicists who both touched a sensitive string on me. One was Nobel laureate Heike Kamerlingh Onnes, who made "by measuring to the knowledge" the slogan of his laboratory. He was my great example in my graduation project a long time ago, a study that took place at helium temperature. The other was another Nobel laureate, Richard Feynman, who said: if the theory gives different results than the measurements, then the theory is wrong. As a physics student, a long time ago, I bought The Feynman Lectures on Physics from him. Those books devoured you next to your textbooks, because they were so understandable and instructive at the same time. I conclude with the hope that the Secretary of State is also a real engineer: that he will come to know by measuring and adjust his tax theories to the measurements.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u141	Mr. Chairman. We would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply, although we would have preferred it to be different in some respects. We discussed two measures in 2016: the abolition of the elderly allowance and the reduction of the elderly discount. We have shown, we thought, that these measures were intended to be a kind of compensation at the time. If you reverse those measures now, you will undo the compensation. The Secretary of State has said two things about this which reinforce each other. Firstly, he said that older people are no longer among the poorest. But given the quotes about average pensions and so on, he can get a different view on that. Secondly, he said: I have not given enough thought to this background. I literally wrote that down. That is why I think it is good to return to this at another opportunity. It doesn't have to go into it until 2016, but we as 50PLUS will not rest in it. We shall come back to that. I have heard well that the Secretary of State does not see the extension of the municipal tax area as an opportunity for an increase. In fact, there will be no increase. In doing so, the Secretary of State stated that it was intended to shift municipal taxes from a disruptive source to a non-distorting source. I do not know whether the voters of this communication are ecstatic, but I would like the Secretary of State to briefly explain what is meant by 'distorting source'. Finally, I come to the revision of the tax system. I can be brief about that. D66 has said it must be done before Princess' Day and that it must be urgent for once. I understand there's going to be a motion on that side too. I wonder if the Secretary of State would like to wait so long or if he would come forward with his plans sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u142	It's great that the speaker chair is set to everyone's length. I don't know who it's known to. I never had to give up my height here, even when I joined. Mr. Chairman. There's one thing I need to get off my chest in advance. I regret that Mr Essers said on behalf of the CDA: I am going to vote against it anyway. That while we all concluded that the tax plan we discussed here was about the thinnest tax plan ever. For this reason, I regret that there is a kind of pattern in which, in the run-up to the elections, we vote against everything. That while the content of the debate did not give me the feeling that there was a great deal of reason for a huge difference in views on this tax plan. I'm not talking about the future. I'm talking about this tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u143	A thin tax plan does not have to be an argument in itself. You may find that there is far too little or that too little changes in laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u144	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u145	I named what I liked, but it's also about what's not in it. There is, however, a consistent line in our approach, namely that we regret the increase in charges. We don't see them being reversed, at least it's happening way too slowly. That's our point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u146	I share that with Mr Essers. That is also a concern for my group, but I think it would go very far if the 2015 Tax Plan were to be fully aligned. Anyway, every fraction is free to do so. I could not fail to make a comment on that. The Secretary of State has responded in detail and in detail to a large number of issues. He's certainly transparent and willing. There has never been so much mention of all kinds of technological consultations that can take place after this. I also noticed the metaphor. The Secretary of State often talked about how difficult it is to push an elephant up stairs. It is even more difficult for an elephant to walk on eggs all the time. That is why I do not go into all the details, the questions that I have asked and the answers that I have received for the most part to my satisfaction. I must say that we are failing in terms of sustainability. Nor can I understand the absurdities: number three in the field of environmental taxes and very low performance in the field of energy. That is really absurd and, as far as I am concerned, it calls for a fundamental rethink. Yes, that may also be easier, with less complex rules, because the finer the arrangements become, the less you see the main line.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u147	I have a very brief question, Madam President. Mr Van Boxtel refers to a review. Is that a rematch with this Secretary of State or the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u148	Everything is cabinet policy. Only the Secretary of State has the great role of foreman in the debate on taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u149	That's just one part of the whole policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u150	Of course, it always is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u151	Maybe the Secretary of State can go into this as well. The role of the Secretary of State for Finance in relation to the broader environmental objectives and other objectives has already been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u152	Mr Bröcker is quite right about that. I remember that I also took this point in the General Political Reviews. I pointed that out to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u153	Finally, Mr Bröcker.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u154	I know the subject. That wasn't my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u155	What I find even sadder is the following. I remember very well the first time I took part in the General Political Reviews here. At that time, Mr Verhagen was still Minister for Economic Affairs. At that time, the cabinet performed to answer me that I did not have to worry about achieving the energy objectives set in Europe. That wasn't four years ago, but we're way out of it. That's all I care about. That is why I also appeal to the Secretary of State who has taxation in his portfolio to play his role in a broader cabinet policy in order to take real steps. The Secretary of State has said that he is looking for broad support for tax reforms. I understand. I'm not asking him to start a mission that he knows before she stranded. However, in line with what I have said in public and in other places, I would like to encourage the Cabinet to speed up in particular and to find the balance between the broadest possible support and its own attitude. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. I hope you will read it, Mr President, because that is the use here. I hope that motion can also be supported. If the Secretary of State thought that this motion was a support for his policy, I would still strongly urge that it be adopted, so that that support is actually given. Mr Van Boxtel, Mr Scholten, Mr Essers, Mr Ester, Mr Thom de Graaf and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in spring 2015, the Cabinet will be able to allocate sufficient resources for the necessary reduction of burdens;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to present a detailed proposal for the tax review, including the first concrete steps for 2016, to the States General by Prinsjesdag 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u156	I would like a clarification, Madam President. We did not sign that motion because of a lack of clarity. This is because there is talk of reducing the burden in general. Is that meant, for example, box 2? Or is it all about reducing the burden, any kind of burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u157	As far as my group is concerned, it goes without saying that it is everything that can help create jobs by reducing the burden, because that is what this country is crying out for, with more than 600,000 unemployed. There is an urgent need to reduce the burden on employers and employees. It's the primary focus. I'm not going to walk into the trap as to whether it should be in box 1, box 2 or box 3. I leave it to the cabinet, but I do not want the search for the broadest possible support to take as long as 2016 is lost when it comes to contributing to economic recovery, including for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u158	But if it had meant reducing the burden so that employment would rise... did you put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u159	We then talk about burden relief primarily on labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u160	But it doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u161	No, it's there in a general sense. I'm giving the cabinet some space, but the intention I'm asking with is obvious, I think. I have deliberately formulated it more generally, hoping that in this Chamber there will be the broadest possible support for this optimistic happiness on the sidelines in this cabinet's drive for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to my group's questions and also his official staff, who has been very helpful to him these two days. My group looks back on a good and enjoyable debate where important points have been crossed. I'll keep my second term short. The Christian Union can live well with this Tax Plan. The lower tax rate on labour, which has just been mentioned, is a good thing and the tax measures on housing also prove to be useful. There are also concerns that have not been addressed in the debate. The first concerns the tax space provided by the Tax Plan to young, innovative entrepreneurs who have started their own start-up, their own business. Here, the Netherlands can and must take much more out of the box if it is to remain a competitive economy. Here too, our fiscal creativity can make a big impact. Here, too, more ambition. The Christian Union Group regrets that we have not been able to convince the Secretary of State to extend the low VAT rate for repair and renovation in 2015. It is an effective measure which is beneficial to all and which can further destroy the housing market. We understand that this measure costs 130 million. That is a lot of money, but there are, of course, also substantial economic benefits that generate a lot of tax revenue. My group asks the Secretary of State for a more detailed cost-benefit analysis of this reduced VAT rate and to share it with the Chamber. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so to my group? We felt that the Secretary of State argued somewhat less strongly when it came to designing a philosophy behind the use of fiscal instruments to make the transition to a green economy, an objective which this cabinet also claims to pursue. Of course, I say to other participants in the debate, we should not fall into flat instrumentalism and a poorly thought-out bay of environmental instruments, but that is not the stake either. We are talking about a balanced and balanced vision of how we can also use the fiscal instruments to promote green growth, again with all the pluses and minuses that go with it. The Christian Union Group wants to encourage the Secretary of State to step up his ambition in this area. Can he promise my group that, in the context of the review of the tax system, he will pay close attention to the contribution of our tax system to an innovative and sustainable economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u163	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I do it quickly and I do not allow myself too many duties. First, a very concrete point. I had asked a question about the energy tax in order to clarify the exemption for care-free constructions of renewable energy. I'm getting signals that there's some uncertainty about that. Quite specifically, I had asked whether the settlement per kilowatt hour, or the relief through a lease or rental structure, is the distinctive criterion. I may have missed it because it is sometimes difficult for me to keep an eye on things, but I don't think I have had an answer to that question yet. Maybe we can still do this. I am asking this because I understand that the answer to that question is very important for practice and for shaping these care structures. Then there's sustainability. Mr Van Boxtel and Mr Ester have already mentioned this. I regret that the Secretary of State is making a caricature of the widely supported desire for greater attention to sustainability in taxation. This is put in a frame of instrumentalism as if only measures are being taken that are not appropriate in taxation but are only used as a toy to achieve environmental goals. It's not about that. Moreover, I find it strange that this instrumentalism is mainly used for this purpose. In my belief, taxes are almost all instrumental too. There are always substantive judgments on what to tax and what not to tax. These are political choices that are always instrumental. When Mr Reuten talks about reducing the burden and then asks about the objective of promoting employment? That is also instrumentalism. The aim is to promote employment. There is nothing wrong with that, but the main objective of taxes as such must be borne in mind. That is also what we are asking for when it comes to fiscal greening. It's not about toys. We are talking about taxes which also serve a different purpose in terms of the choices we make. Once again, tax sustainability is not just about environmental taxes. We are also concerned about sustainability impacts and opportunities where relevant. So not an EIA where that is not relevant but where it is relevant. The letter explicitly mentions employment and economic growth as objectives of the review. We do not see why sustainability cannot be added at exactly the same level as employment and economic growth. I asked the Secretary of State to say something about that, but he didn't. The answers of the Secretary of State do not give us the confidence that spontaneous ambition will arise in the area of sustainability. That is why we are tabling a motion on that point. Mr De Boer, Mr Ester, Mr Thissen, Mr Van Boxtel and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[promoting sustainability and green growth is part of government policy;]] [[The Netherlands is lagging behind in achieving climate and sustainability objectives;]] [[taxation can play an important role in increasing sustainability and promoting green growth;]] [[noting that the promotion of sustainability is not included as the main objective for the forthcoming revision of the tax system, where employment and economic growth are;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that fiscal measures should be assessed in terms of their impact on both employment and economic growth and sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to add the promotion of sustainability to the substantive objectives for the revision of the tax system, in addition to employment and economic growth, and to further develop this objective into concrete measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u164	Mr. Chairman. So we are not satisfied with the sustainability ambitions, but we can support the Tax Plan as such. In general, we think that is a well-balanced plan. There are pluses and minuses, but in general we can support the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u165	Mr. Chairman. To our previous thanks for the careful answer to our written questions, I would now like to add our thanks for the pleasant answer to our oral questions. Less taxation on labour, making hiring people cheaper, a fair share of companies and assets, greening and simplification. In this way, the PvdA provides a system that is fairer, more sustainable and creates new jobs. In my group's view, therefore, a simpler system that rewards work must be at the heart of the comprehensive tax review. That brings me straight to the first point of the six points I want to pass in the second term. We welcome the Secretary of State's statement that a fair distribution of income is a prerequisite for the comprehensive tax review. We are pleased that the imbalance between employees and the self-employed is on the government's agenda. We are particularly looking forward to the prototype that would be ready for the summer and to the first elements that will be included in the 2016 Tax Plan. We understand the need for broad support. We heard the Secretary of State speak of a tax relief of 3 to 5 billion. Is this a precondition that there will be no further cuts in the financing of this reduction of charges? That is an important point for my group. I come to international taxation. Everyone is part of the problem and part of the solution. We have ended up in a priest's dilemma, a race to the bottom, but the bottom seems to be reached. We are therefore looking forward to the clarity that will come from the OECD and are looking forward to the further implementation of this in the anti-abuse provisions. We are pleased that the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors are taken seriously by the Secretary of State and the Cabinet. It is a good thing that the cabinet is a pioneer in sharing rulings between tax administrations. My third point concerns sustainability. We understand that there is a search for viable measures that create jobs rather than costs. We also wonder whether it makes no sense to hold a broader debate on sustainability, hearing yesterday's debate and today's debate, which not only focuses on the use of fiscal instruments, but also pays attention to command and prohibition, Mr Reuten made this suggestion and the insights from the behavioral economy about how to give people a little push to move in the right direction without spending money. We are wondering whether it might be useful to have a policy debate on this with the directors of Kamp and Mansveld together with the Secretary of State. Anyway, that's a matter for the Chamber. Maybe the subject will come back. I come to my fourth point: capital taxes. We are still waiting for the letter from the Secretary of State and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment so that we can get the facts straight. Maybe "still" isn't right. We await answers to our supplementary questions. Once these facts exist, it makes sense to think about how the capital efficiency levy can take a more just form than it currently has. My fifth point concerns a number of parts of the tax plan before us. We have asked for attention to be paid to the cost of work and to the utility criterion, which needs to be tightened up in order to combat tariff arbitrage. We look forward to the tax collection law, which hopefully regulates that there can be no abuse of it. We agree with the Secretary of State that there have been rather complex antics with the waste tax. By joining the existing system of export licences, it is fortunately feasible. We thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that we will not have a repetition of the situation surrounding the water tax in the context of the energy tax. That was our concern in his commitment that special attention will be paid to the effects on particular industries. It's good that lessons have been learned about what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u166	I'm trying for the last time this year. For the Labour Party, reducing income disparities is a key policy issue, says Senator Postema. In addition, reducing income disparities is one of the three pillars of the cabinet which the PvdA Group supports on the other side. This is what it looks like, by the way. Let me take a look at the purchasing power plates of the CPB. I do not see this reduction in income differences this year and the last three years. Then where is the PvdA Group? Is it just words that reducing these differences is so important? Is one of these three pillars just a word? Or does the PvdA Group do something about it? Or will she vote against the Tax Plan for this reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u167	Today we are discussing the Tax Plan and its effects on income distribution. In the plan, I see a large number of measures that encourage fair sharing. I listed those measures last night. I'd like to do that again here. The rate of the first share of payroll tax goes from 36.76% to 36.5% The maximum wage discount is increased by €100 for income from €20,000 to €49.000. The general tax discount will be increased by €80. The general tax rebate is reduced steeper, from 2% to 2.32%. The wages that directors-major shareholders have to pay to themselves are rising and there will be an anti-abuse rule for unbusiness low remuneration. The dgas are therefore going to pay 150 million more taxes. In our view, these are very valuable concessions to our concern that there should be a fair sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u168	Mrs. Sent doesn't look through the numbers. This increase in the employment discount concerns incomes from €44.000 or €47.000 to €115.000, approximately the third and fourth quarters. On balance, all you have to do is look at the figures in the Mrs's report. On p. 61 you see that the differences are not reduced at all. Mrs. Sent agrees with that, doesn't she? In the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the last two years, we see that these differences are not reduced either. It's just printed. You can say...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u169	Mr Reuten, this is exactly what we heard last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u170	Yes, but Mrs. Sent hasn't responded yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u171	That's different. I do not think it would make much sense to repeat the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u172	I would like to add one more point: the increase in the working discount of €100 applies to incomes from €20,000 to €49,000. That is true, therefore, of the lower incomes. Of course, the draftsman does not just refer to the Tax Plan. Today, we are discussing this plan and I have listed a series of measures that are indeed committed to fair sharing. I come to my sixth set of points. We have drawn attention to the theoretical link between VAT and income tax. This does not necessarily encourage employment. We welcome the statement by the Secretary of State that the main focus is on promoting employment. Will the measures envisaged in the VAT review also pay particular attention to a fair distribution of income? We sometimes have concerns that a VAT increase weighs more heavily on the weaker shoulders. We would like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u173	Could I ask Mrs Sent whether she is prepared, within that attitude, to burden things that are really bad and to spare things that are good for humanity and human beings? If you only define it in terms of income justice, you will never achieve a number of other goals at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u174	I learned from Tinbergen that if you have multiple goals, you also need multiple instruments. We must be careful that we have so many goals that we cannot achieve them all with the instruments. This is not the only objective that we want to achieve, but rather an objective that we call for attention to be given to, in addition to creating jobs and making the tax system simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u175	I am also talking, for example, about making things more expensive, which are simply unhealthy. A lot of people with a small wallet have a problem with that. That's why I object to just looking at income.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u176	Absolutely. There are several objectives and this is one of them. It is a prerequisite, a point of attention, for which we would like to draw attention, although the SP does not think we do. Then I have one final theoretical point with regard to the knowledge workers. Given their mobility and their importance for our knowledge-based economy, particular attention should be paid to stimulating not only the demand for knowledge-based workers but also the supply of knowledge-based workers. We are pleased that the Secretary of State agrees with us on this. I'm rounding up. We support the measures in the 2015 Tax Plan because, as far as we are concerned, they relate to fair sharing, stimulating the housing market and promoting greening. In particular, we look forward to the promised prototype of the comprehensive tax review. Some of us have already tried to make predictions about this, in which I had to think of a statement by Laurence Peter, also known from the Peter Principle. He said: an economist is an expert who will know tomorrow why the prediction he made yesterday did not come true today. In view of this statement, we understand the reluctance of the Secretary of State to make predictions regarding the outcome of the search for broad support. We particularly support his efforts to achieve a simpler system that rewards workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u177	Secretary of State, you requested a five-minute suspension. Will you then be able to answer the questions in half an hour?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u178	Big shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u179	That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u180	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to do this real fast. Mr Essers asked us what period of time we had the concept of a partner working. A proposal for amendment in the course of next year should be feasible. The question of whether it works out generously, I'll take it as a research question. For the time being, I interpret it as a wish. I don't have the answer to that wish yet, but it's been noted. It was asked whether the electoral programmes were calculated without this group, as it is now calculated without this group. The answer to this is yes, albeit that the dataset is regularly improved and thus in the past has worked with somewhat different datasets. However, there is consistency in this respect. The statistical correction required by the CPB has thus been applied before. In reply to Mr Reuten's question as to whether this will reduce the differences in income than they actually are, I say: it is, of course, the CPB's view and I agree with that. In the first period, I stated that it would be misleading if the statistical correction were not to be carried out. This is probably a difference of opinion that is not only purely statistical. However, my defence is purely statistical. I also fully support this in isolation. It is not inconceivable that we do not fully agree on other points either. Mr Reuten has put forward a quick proposal on how we could standardize taxation according to capacity. He cites the example of a difference of percentage points in total burden burden between the different quarters. I find that in the form of a very coarse one. It ignores the other aspects of income than the fiscal aspect. It also ignores issues such as purchasing power and purchasing power development. I think that is too rough an instrument. Mr Reuten will not be surprised that not only in form, but also in content, such a difference would not be my choice. This cabinet has opted for balanced income relations, and we believe that it has taken a firm step in this direction. This can be found in the coalition agreement. I do not need to repeat Mrs Sent's lists anymore. Then there was the demand for income. Is everyone getting an invitation to report and is it becoming clear to people that they're getting that money back? That's right. If they were already in the file, they'll automatically get an invitation to report. If that is not the case, it will be noticed during the summer. They will then be explicitly invited to report in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u181	I'll give the Secretary of State the following consideration. Is it possible, in order to make it even easier for the people in this particular group, to send them a pre-filled form? If they have a DigiD, they can send it right back. Some people probably don't. They'll be able to sign it. That is the simplest thing for these people, and in part for the Tax Administration. There's only one stamp on it if it had a stamp on it. You will then say: you can send it in and at the same time you will receive the pre-filled form that will remove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u182	I think Mr Reuten is doing two things here. First of all, he is very quick to rely on the assumption that this specific income group is made up of digibetes for a larger part than the rest of the Netherlands. However, I cannot believe that. Secondly, Mr Reuten is introducing a parallel process very quickly. It involves massive processes similar to the conversion of a car factory so that it produces bicycles from one day to the next. That should not be underestimated by Mr Reuten. As an example, I would like to mention the time that I wanted to change one letter. In relation to the additional payment issue, one specific letter had to be provided with another text. That's what a programmer had to do. Mr Reuten is making it too easy. I can't promise this. It's gonna be a mess and it's gonna be bothering these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u183	I'm not going to ask you for a promise. I'm going to ask you to consider it and keep it as simple as possible for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u184	I think that is a call that offers enough freedom to look at it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u185	Thank you for doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u186	That's how we find each other. Mr Nagel asks me about the real face of the municipal tax area: disruptive or non-distorting. It's a little more nuanced. There's no tax to come up with that's not disturbing. Consumers are going to consume less, producers are going to produce less, investors are going to invest less and so on; job seekers are going to look less for work, employers are going to hire fewer people. Tax disruption, but there's a ranking to the extent to which taxes distort. As it gets closer to work, it disturbs more. In this case, "distorting" simply means costing prosperity and jobs, employment. As there are more taxes, there is more disruption of the economy and ultimately less employment remains. The municipal tax area, if wisely designed, you can also do it stupidly is less disruptive than a direct tax on labour. This does not mean that the tax will be reduced, but that it will be less disruptive and thus jobs will be created. Of course, this is accompanied by a net reduction in charges, because the whole operation is accompanied by a net reduction in charges. All in all, we're better off, because we have a job with more people and we pay less taxes. I say to Mr Ester that, of course, the cabinet keeps its eyes open for sustainability and therefore pays attention to that. It is not just a choice in a letter but something that my colleagues, just mentioned, hold me tight. I thought I answered Mrs De Boer's question, but if she didn't recognize the answer as such, it might have been a little complicated. I replied that, in general, the example put forward was not conclusive because it depends on facts and circumstances. The unsatisfactory answer is that something is not black and white, but it is. Whether you work in one case or another depends on the facts and circumstances. I gave the more precise answer, but it was probably not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u187	Should I conclude from this that there is no strict separation between the settlement per kilowatt hour and the more lump sum account as a lease or rental price?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u188	The black and white criteria that we would all like because they would make everything clear are not in many cases. That's a disappointing answer, actually, for me too. We are always in favour of that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u189	From the signals I get, I notice that there is a great need for clarity. If we want to create a care structure, how should we do so in order to benefit from this exemption?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u190	I understand that, actually. For example, I am always asked to clarify exactly who is definitely azzp'er and who is not, which municipal construction has to pay VAT and which is not, and so on. Unfortunately, we have anchored it in all the law books in such a way that it often depends on facts and circumstances. Those are the determining factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u191	Then it's clear we're not getting that clarity. It will then have to be made clear in specific cases. The written questions referred to the fact that the constructions which currently have an exemption, which will also hold if they remain the same and the exemption only moves from the consumer to the supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u192	I find that question difficult and very general. Sometimes the truth comes from above. Oh, yeah, yeah, In the end, Mrs. Sent had two questions. Is there going to be any further cuts? There are three things to say about this, and they have often been repeated. I'll repeat it here. That's not one of the cabinet's choices. Everything's negotiable. That too has been agreed. The solution that must ultimately come out must have broad support. That's where the answer is secured. With regard to a fair distribution of income, Mrs Sent is right to say that if you do not change anything else except one VAT move, this could have a different effect on lower incomes than on higher incomes. That is precisely why we have stated that balanced distribution of income is a prerequisite. For this reason, the whole mechanism must be arranged in such a way that it does so. In the end, the prototype will be accompanied not only by employment effects but also by all the purchasing power plates that we use as standard. Then you can see exactly what's happening. Two motions have been tabled and they are symmetrical. I can live with the request contained in Mr Van Boxtel's motion. After all, it contains something I once promised. If I embrace the motion, as a result of the considerations, I will also say more definitively that there will be additional cuts. The nuanced answer I have just given to Mrs Sent runs counter to that. Since I cannot now take a right turn and can prelude on cuts to finance this plan, I must advise against this motion, even though I have no difficulty with the request for substance. The opposite is the case with the other motion. I can very well follow the considerations in that motion. Some of them are value judgments I can share, others are facts I cannot contradict. Nevertheless, I am not prepared to add sustainability as a full secondary objective, because I really believe that taxation is an inappropriate tool to make sustainability a key objective. There was just a call from that table for a broader debate on sustainability in which two responsible rulers would be present and the Secretary of State would follow as a flag because he has an instrument in his bag. That seemed to me to be a much more sensible approach to this debate, and I would prefer to support it. With some regret and with this story as a basis, I must discourage the adoption of these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u193	Now I understand why the Secretary of State is such a fan of the statement that it is not easy to push an elephant up the stairs. That's gonna pay off now. The Secretary of State has said on my motion that he can live well with the operative part but not with the recital. The motion states that the Secretary of State can reserve sufficient resources. I would like to point out that I do not want to make it solely dependent on windfalls and the Secretary of State must also make choices. He refuses when he says he can't live with that consideration. It says "can"; a determination is not "must" but "can." I'm not going into all the other cases, but that should be spearhead number one. The Secretary of State shows with his rebuttal that he feels trapped in an appointment and doesn't want to do anything else. That's too slow for me. It's an encouragement motion. I hope that the Secretary of State wishes to see it as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u194	I am always happy with the encouraging gestures of D66, especially when it comes to reforms, because I am quite of them. It says here, however, that something can be done. I don't know if it's possible yet. It can only be done if you decide in advance to make additional savings. The cabinet didn't make that choice. So, for me, it's still a question of whether it's possible. It is rather a hope that it can be done than that I can record it now. That is why I would definitely favour additional cuts. That is precisely what I want to make depend on the letter of acceptance. That is why I must advise against this motion, which, by the way, I support the request and the haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u195	The Secretary of State has been alderman of Amsterdam for years. There used to be a jeweler there who had a spell: What can be, can be alone. If the Secretary of State wishes to interpret that consideration in this way, I hope he can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u196	That spell belonged to Wim Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u197	What can be, can be alone. Maybe Kan should change the recital. If Mr Van Boxtel comes to another recital text which clearly shows what the motion calls for and what it does not call for, then he knows that I can live well with the request. I'll leave it to the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u198	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Mr Van Boxtel, would you like to make a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u199	I could live with one minor change in the motion: if it can allocate sufficient resources for the necessary burden relief, at the latest, in spring 2015, I would ask the cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u200	I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u201	I asked if any of the Members would like to vote on the bill. That's the case. I propose that we vote this evening at the end of the sitting on this bill and the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-11.u202	I shall suspend the sitting for a single minute pending the arrival of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
