ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'm just trying to recount everything. We had a debate yesterday on the novelle on the revision of the Housing Act. We also had a debate on the results of the parliamentary inquiry on housing corporations. It was a very valuable debate, in which a number of important issues were raised. For the sake of time, I shall first read out a number of motions. I shall then explain a number of amendments. Some of them are already inside, some of them are still in the making. The purpose of this whole law, also in view of the lessons learned from the past by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, is to restore social housing to the people and to the people. This means that there is social housing for people with low incomes and low middle incomes, so that we can keep mixed, beautiful, liveable neighbourhoods. It means we're fighting scandals. Due to failing supervision, failing politics and insufficient rules, 3 to 10 billion could evaporate. That will not happen again. For this, it is important that policy is in line with this. The law, combined with the policy of this cabinet, can lead to housing being withdrawn from the social housing stock. That's not the point. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of low-cost social housing units has decreased in recent years from 45% in 1986 to 19% in 2012;]] [[calls on the government not to reduce the stock of social housing and to reduce the stock at the old level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the novelle the Minister writes that the proposals in the bill and this novelle cannot be separated from the reforms of the rental and sale market;]] [[Considering that the government intends to freeze the liberalisation limit for three years from 2016, while rents may continue to rise;]] [[Whereas the number of affordable social housing should not be reduced;]] [[calls on the Government not to freeze the liberalisation limit of social housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u2	The next motion states that when we say that corporations should re-focus on the social and core tasks, it should not be possible for a corporation to have infinitely many subsidiaries. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear how the number of subsidiaries of authorised institutions in the new corporate system will develop;]] [[Whereas the new Housing Act does not limit the number of subsidiaries and therefore makes it possible to make internal and external supervision of subsidiaries more difficult;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether, and under what conditions, the number of subsidiaries can be limited;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u3	Salaries, high salaries of directors of public institutions, who doesn't know them! This is what my next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a substantial number of corporate directors have given themselves a wage increase;]] [[noting that negotiations for the collective agreement of employees of housing corporations have been suspended;]] [[calls on the government to urge Aedes to include top salaries under the collective agreement and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u4	Then, of course, I have some valuable words about the parliamentary committee of inquiry and its results. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Chamber has expressed its deep appreciation for the parliamentary committee of inquiry into housing corporations and the clear report;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber twice a year about the progress of the findings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations, as described in the report Far from Home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u5	The most important thing we have seen with each other is that it must be about the tenant again. The whole social housing must be returned to and for the tenant and society. I have tabled a number of amendments on this point. We should not just say that we think tenants are important. Tenants must obtain consent and influence within the corporations at the level of the municipalities, including at the administrative level. In doing so, we are organizing counterpower and increasing democratic legitimacy. What is also important here is that we look not only at the residents' organisations, but also at the individual tenants. We must involve them as much as possible in the important decisions to be taken, especially in the coming years in which the system is going to change. I have therefore also tabled an amendment on the subject of the tenant consultation. It is particularly strange that the Minister states that the corporations should confine themselves to the social task, then regulate it and then cut between the commercial and non-commercial sectors. The non-commercial branch then has to pay corporation tax, as if it were a multinational company, although it does not always pay taxes. I have also tabled an amendment on that point. As at the point where there is such a cut, if homes have a rental price above the maximum rental price and could actually be liberalised, those homes should go with them to the commercial branch through which social capital still flows out. I will also try to close that gap with an amendment. I believe that I have stayed within exactly six minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u6	Yeah, I see it. Nice. Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed a very thorough analysis of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, both with the committee and with the Minister, in a short time. The indignation about everything that has gone wrong in this sector has clearly been included. Normally, we would have tabled a motion calling on the government to transpose the recommendation into legislation, but we were now in the unique situation where we could talk about legislation right away. In retrospect, I am glad that it has gone as it did, because that has enriched and widened the debate, including the debate on the novelle. It is very important that we now seek broad support for the legislation before us. Some parties have expressed concerns about restructuring in shrinking areas. In particular, D66 wants to do justice to the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on a housing authority. My group will be involved in this, also in order to ensure that the institutions authorised for revision are future-proof. As has already been said, we will also look favourably at the amendments, which we have not yet been able to read, on the participation of tenants in so far as they contribute to the core tasks. I have noted a commitment from the Minister to be able to hold a fundamental debate on the WSW in spring. I'm happy about that. I hope that the Minister can give the WSW a place in the state of housing so that we can take that point on an annual basis. I have also tabled two amendments. One offers a hook for public supervision of the WSW, which is still lacking in the law. The aim of the other is to close the potential loophole for overly creative municipalities. These amendments are co-signed by Mr Monasch and Mr Verhoeven. Finally, I would like to make two further motions. The first one is about open data. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations recommends that the reporting of corporations be broadly uniform;]] [[Whereas transparency of financial data contributes to cost control and efficiency in housing corporations;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the recommendation of the parliamentary committee of inquiry;]] [[calls on the Government to publish this financial information in such a way that these open dates are accessible, processable and comparable for all interested parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde, Mr Monasch and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u8	My second motion concerns the WSW and the role of the municipalities in it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations, the absence of boundaries and excessively well-defined performance fields has meant that the corporations have been the municipality's ATM for too long;]] [[Considering that, in the current security structure, it is in particular all corporations in the sector that pay for local financial problems of a corporation through the restructuring levy and the resistance of the WSW, even if they are caused by excessive municipal housing ambitions;]] [[Calls on the Government, in its ongoing investigation into the functioning of the guarantee system, to consider how, without additional financial implications for the Empire, the incentive for municipalities to effectively manage the risk of corporations can be strengthened;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in its ongoing investigation, whether it is possible to differentiate the premium by risk profile of a housing corporation in order to build up the incentive to manage risks responsibly for corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u9	Mr. Chairman. It's multitasking here. On my way to the chair, I am asked to sign an amendment. I'm thinking about whether or not I'm going to. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply and the extensive debate we have had with him, including within the committee of inquiry. There have been a number of points that I would like to mention. I would also like to clarify a number of points on which I would like to amend. First of all, the CDA Group considers it very important that housing corporations can continue to invest in restructuring areas. We don't want a land with one-sided property. We want integration. We want to get away from those who are diverse. This includes the fact that, if necessary, corporations can restructure. This concerns the construction of both more expensive housing and social housing, i.e. SGEIs and non-DAEBs. That housing market, we've already discussed, isn't perfect everywhere. For shrinking areas, where market players are often scarce, it is essential that housing corporations can continue to invest in mixed residential areas in restructuring projects. There is a great deal of work to be done in these areas. It's not easy. On this point, Mrs Schouten, also on behalf of our group, will be tabling an amendment which allows for loss of restructuring in the SGEI sector of the corporation. We also discussed the market test in the legislative consultation. We've made proposals. We had an amendment ready earlier to consider whether the market test for corporations could be dropped on own land in the event of restructuring. It is a little strange that, if you own land and want to restructure there and improve things, you have to do another market test. On this point, an amended amendment has just been introduced into the draft, which I have not yet received on paper. But it will be filed shortly, so the Minister will be able to respond. I indicated in the first term that, as far as we are concerned, there is a task to see whether we can spare smaller corporations in particular from the administrative burden. This could be done if we were to use the Transparency Directive and look up the space that exists, even according to Europe, to exclude smaller corporations, in this case with a turnover of up to 30 million, from the obligation to separate or split, assuming that their total non-DAE holdings are less than 5%. On this point, Mr Bishop, on behalf of our group, will table an amendment. We would like a little more room for municipalities to give more substance to the concept of 'viability', of course under the limit of maximum amounts or -rates. On this point, too, an amendment will be tabled by Mr Bishop, partly on behalf of Mrs Schouten and myself. That's what's gonna happen. That amendment seems important to us in order to give substance to that concept of 'viability'.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u10	We discussed the core tasks of housing corporations in detail yesterday. What are they supposed to do? What shouldn't they do? How do we learn from the past? I have indicated that I also have an eye for the fact that corporations have done good things in some places in the country. If we're not careful, they can't do it anymore, and that would be bad. Mr Knops is now making a number of proposals which are in line with that idea. I also said yesterday: let us be careful not to give these corporations all kinds of space again, with good intentions, of course, which gives us a repeat of moves over the past few decades. How does Mr Knops point out his own proposals in this light?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u11	I'd say fit and clean. Those proposals fit perfectly in that direction. The fact that there were no borders in the past and that they caused problems does not mean that the underlying idea was wrong. I believe that this debate and yesterday's debate are primarily intended to set and set limits. You may differ about where you draw boundaries, but I think everyone needs clarity: corporations, municipalities and tenants. The amendment that you probably do not have yet, but which is circulating somewhere, also includes the conditions under which a contribution to livingability is possible. It is therefore clearly limited, because one of the lessons of the past is that we must indicate those limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u12	I would like to make one more comment on the history of the country, just to put it very hard. The CDA said two years ago that it wanted a parliamentary survey on housing corporations. He's come. The Committee of Inquiry's report shows very clearly: beware, draw a clear line; perhaps not at 0%, but at some point, so that we no longer get all these abuses. I sincerely hope that the CDA Group, together with the SGP and the Christian Union, will also take into account the risks of stretching all these borders in the proper care of certain weak areas. That is my appeal and my question to Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u13	Mr Verhoeven's appeal is well understood and safeguards are included in the amendment. One of these guarantees is the performance agreements, the agreements made with municipalities. They must also prevent us from making the concept of 'viability' so broad that you can grasp everything, even steamships. I think we'll soon agree on that. Our group has given a number of pieces to the Minister who is talking about the space that Brussels offers or does not offer to grant non-DAE exemptions. The Minister said quite clearly yesterday that he did not want to discuss this subject again. He said he had been working on it since 2009 and did not want to be sent to Brussels with that message again. I would still like to know from the Minister whether there is really no possibility of setting the limit different from where he is now on the basis of previous agreements. Can that be technical and legal? Finally, I would like to table three motions. First of all, a motion on benchmarks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations, benchmarks can provide a good understanding of corporate operating costs and performance;]] [[whereas benchmarks increase the transparency and accountability of the corporate sector and it is therefore desirable that benchmarks are not non-binding;]] [[noting that not all corporations have yet participated in this benchmark;]] [[calls on the Government, one year after the entry into force of the Revision Act, to evaluate the Aedes benchmark and, if not all corporations participate in this benchmark, to include an obligation to do so in AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u14	My next motion is about the schools. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas primary schools and Youth and Family Centres are generally classified as non-DAEBs, whereas the social importance for cores and neighbourhoods is very high in combinations or not;]] [[Calls on the Government to supplement the list of authorised SGEI activities in relation to social real estate with primary schools and Youth and Family Centres on condition that they are based on profitable plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u15	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was a long day, but it's also about something. This is what you call a system review, a system law where a lot has happened. Tonight there will be a lot of amendments which are a result of further tightening-up by the quality, at least, excellent conclusions and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations. It is clear that the report has had an impact, not only on yesterday's debate and today's debate, but also on the amendments that will be before us this evening. I would like to make a few small points, which have remained in yesterday's debate, quick and clear. I would like to pass on the amendments that my party has tabled or will submit. First of all, one case needs to be clarified. If a corporation splits and places a part in an e.g., it is currently legally possible to include the property that is still non-DAEB as collateral. As far as we are concerned, this non-DAEB ownership cannot then be excluded from the performance agreements made with the municipalities and tenants. That needs to be clarified by the Minister, otherwise there will be an amendment. We will also table a tightening amendment on this later this evening. That non-DAEB ownership may, if it is really necessary, be included in that legal split e.g., but it should not be used in such a way that it is excluded from those performance agreements. SGEIs are still SGEIs at that time. Then I come to my second point. Although it was very fast yesterday, I heard the Minister say that purchase guarantee schemes and schemes such as IkbouwvoorbareinAlmere can normally continue, even under the current system. I would like to have that explained one more time by the Minister. Thank you again for the commitment to the transformation of nursing homes into nursing homes. Only 10% of non-DAEBs can now be commercially built. That's going to be increased to 25%. We have also understood that you really have to set a deadline to speed it up and to avoid waiting very long. What does the Minister think about that? About longer independent living we have a separate VAO. He could then possibly come back to this. I would like to have an explanation of the idea of management corporation. Did I understand the Minister yesterday that they are part of the Platform program31? My colleague from the SP asked about the implementation of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. We talked about this yesterday. The Minister said: we have the state of housing; we can see how the law is being implemented. Normally, I'd like to support that trajectory. This law will enter into force on 1 July next year if all goes well. I think that a year later, on 1 July 2016, we really need a first evaluation. We should not forget that for one and a half or two years. Why? Much attention has been paid to the enormous lobby circuit, which has spread over all its breadth, with even miraculous conversions of VNO-NCW. I think that letter will often be held before them by parties who will once disagree with them. That lobby was very strong, but the introduction of this law is crucial. After tonight we have a very good and robust structure. I think it's okay if the Chamber keeps its finger on the wrist. So I would like to have the Minister's commitment to come up with a state of affairs after a year. This is important because of, among other things, the introduction of regional housing markets and the scale of corporate activity. Then I come to our amendments. An amendment has already been tabled to reduce operating costs. It is good that there is a benchmark, but there can be huge savings. That's good for the tenants and that's good for efficiency. Then you can also moderate your rent or choose to invest the money saved. Then I come to the amendment on defuse. We disagree with the Minister on this. The Minister says we can't do this. The basis of the entire parliamentary committee of inquiry is that it says that there are actually two possibilities: to continue with the current hybrid system or to opt for expropriation. That means everything to the market, everything to the government or everything to the tenants. That is, by definition, a form of expropriation. That was also investigated by the lawyers of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. We believe that, in some cases, defusion should be possible. Moreover, it is absolutely not a must, which is why it is also an amendment with a possibility. There will be two amendments from us. Hopefully they will be there before the Minister starts his term. These amendments seek to strengthen the position of tenants at the negotiating table. It is very important, at least for my party, but also for others, that those tenants, who as a very important player have not been given enough attention, return to the corporation and also return to the consultation with the municipality. There are many possibilities for this in the amendments tabled by our party and by other parties. There's an amendment to that. The second amendment concerns the municipality. The municipality has a popular housing interest and is encouraged to make a living vision on the basis of which the performance agreements are made. We will add that if we continue to hinder this cultural change in order to make these agreements with each other, we will assume that this cultural change will ultimately enable the municipality to use its guarantee with the WSW by not using the back-up agreement. The municipality also guarantees the investment of these corporations. We will support amendments in many other areas. Yesterday, the SGP indicated that you should not impose too much administrative burden with all kinds of separation obligations on small corporations, but that you should just let them do what they were set up for. We shall support and co-sign this amendment. We will also come back to many other areas, for example on the amendment of the VVD in the context of the guarantee with the WSW and the SP and D66 on strengthening the position of tenants. A number of other amendments are still in the process of being tabled. We hope that at the end of the evening we can say that this was a robust renovation of the corporation system, that we can look again with pride and confidence at the corporations and that we can continue to support the good corporate directors, the vast majority, to build again with pride on the social housing of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u16	I am now very curious about a particular position of the Labour Party. We had a little debate about it yesterday. It relates to the fact that, in the case of a legal separation, a property from social housing must now go to the non-DAEB, when the property is liberalised and the rental price is above the maximum rental price. We want to close that door so that the houses are preserved for social housing. This also applies after a split, when there is a change and the landlord does not reduce the rental price to below that maximum rental price. We want to close that door, too. Can I assume that the Labour Party will support us in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u17	I will look carefully at your amendment. Let me at least say this tonight: I think that corporate directors who have heard the debate here clearly state the importance of the tenants. All parties say it: your core task is to house low and low middle incomes. My appeal here is: think three times before you liberalize homes at all. Maybe there's more money to be made from that, but you weren't founded for that. You were founded to give groups a good home. Maybe that's where the story should start. Is it really necessary to liberalise? We are creating plenty of opportunities for institutional investors to invest in that part of the market that we call the free sector rental and which is currently very poorly developed in the Netherlands. I would particularly like to say that to corporate directors. My second point is that, within the performance agreements that need to be made, it will be possible to state very clearly at local level what might still need to be liberalised. Then I come to my third point: should you make that impossible? That is not the issue here. The point is: at the moment, the corporation under the WSW is legally free to remove an released property from the regulated sector and to offer it as a free-rent housing. Again, it wouldn't be my choice, but it's mostly an apple on the corporate boards not to do that. I will examine the amendment very carefully, because I need to know the details and I would like to await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u18	I would certainly do that, because those loopholes in the law already remove the approximately 80,000 homes from social housing in divorce. The second point is that, after the split, houses will be withdrawn if the rent is not reduced if we actually leave that choice to the corporations................................................................................................................................................................................................ We need to take care of it here now that we have the chance. I think it was Mr Monasch's job to keep those homes for all those low-income and middle-income people. Otherwise, as far as I am concerned, he will no longer have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u19	As far as you're concerned!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u20	I'll keep an eye on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u21	A brief response from Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u22	That last one's not news to me. I am only pleased that Mrs Karabulut will keep a close eye on us. We have just said that corporations must stick to their core tasks, especially in the performance agreements. They've been planted here more than once. That is the starting point. The municipal authorities now have plenty of room to tell the corporations that the houses should be used for those on the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u23	Mr. Chairman. We now know that the world of housing corporations has been poisoned by fraud, self-enrichment, failed projects and failing supervision. Tenants have been horribly abandoned. Last week we discussed it with the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations. Once again, this committee has done a very good job. Yesterday we discussed it with the Minister all day. In front of us there is a large legislative proposal which must address the problems, but which, according to the PVV, can be improved on parts. To this end, we have tabled two amendments, which I will briefly explain. An amendment concerns the core tasks of corporations. These consist, in short, of building, managing and renting social housing. The Committee of Inquiry has identified the fact that corporations had far too much scope to carry out all kinds of other activities in addition to these core tasks as one of the main causes of all problems. The Committee of Inquiry is clear on this point: anything that is not on the so-called SGEI list of core tasks simply must not be done by the corporations anymore. The PVV's amendment does exactly this right and removes all non-DAEB activities from the law. This finally creates crystal clear boundaries within which the corporations have to operate. The second amendment of the PVV aims to limit the number of ancillary functions of directors and supervisors to one. The fact that supervisors in the corporate sector, for example, were in serious deficit also has to do with the multitude of functions they have. Gathering jobs was more important to many than exercising them properly. The amendment changes this and that is very important. I await the Minister's response to the amendments and motions tabled by me and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u24	Mr Fritsma has constantly taunted the wrongs in the sector both in yesterday's debate and earlier. These abuses also need to be mentioned in particular. He now comes up with an amendment to limit the number of commissioners to one and he tells the story that a combination of functions would not be possible in time and that there would be double interests. How does Mr Fritsma then view the fact that MPs of the PVV are at the same time also council members or statesmen?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u25	That has nothing to do with this story. In this story, we have seen hundreds of millions of billions of taxpayers' money simply thrown away by, among other things, failing supervision. Of course, that's quite different from what you're talking about. This is where we have to tackle the problem by dealing with those lap machines. I don't know if you've ever seen the lists, but there have been regulators who have been collecting jobs in some sort of grabbelton. That ticked the ten, the fifteen, the seventeen or sometimes even the twenty. If you look at that, you know why supervision failed. There is no normally functioning human being who can handle so many other secondary functions next to a main runway. That's why the PVV wants to see it limited to one. Most people already have their hands full with one side function, if they want to fill it out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u26	The tactic is always: make it a caricature. So tell me they have 17 side functions. Then we'll agree quickly. I agree with that. If Mr Fritsma wants to tackle failure of supervision, he has to talk about the fit and clean test, and he has to say that Commissioners and members of the Supervisory Board who are not working must leave. That's what he should say. I do not understand why the PVV is making a large number here for the stage about Commissioners who should not have more than one side job, while at the same time half the PVV group is doing all kinds of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u27	It's a weird equation. Mr Knops should look into his own party. Many grabs in the corporate sector, which have screwed up, can be found at the CDA. The same applies to supervisors. So the fact that Mr Knops is coming up with this story is, to say the least, inappropriate. Do something about the CDA grubs, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u28	For some years I have been listening to Mr Fritsma's input in all the debates about living. Very often Mr Fritsma's input is about the fact that the tenants have fallen victim to cabinet policy. Every time he has a lot of words about that. Here's what I'm asking him. There are now a number of proposals from the Labour Party, the SP and D66 to seriously strengthen the position of tenants. Will Mr Fritsma advise his group to support these proposals, so that something is actually being done about the position of the tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u30	I'm speechless!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u31	I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u32	But above all, I am very pleased with this clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u33	That's clear. The tenant has been horribly abandoned. We believe, as we said yesterday, that the position of the tenant in the novelle is not sufficiently anchored. We want to see that changed with you. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u34	Thank you. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u36	Mr. Chairman. I'll read my only motion first. Then we've already had that highlight. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the financial regulator for housing corporations has all the information necessary to perform its tasks properly;]] [[Whereas the management letters of auditors not only facilitate the financial supervisor to carry out the supervisory role of individual corporations, but may also be a tool to identify potential sector-wide risks;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that housing corporations also send the management letters of auditors to the financial supervisor by default,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u37	This was one of the proposals made by our own committee of inquiry. This is one we really want to see realized. We had ten hours yesterday, and today too, for a very long time, including the assessment of all the amendments by the Minister, and we talked very well about this housing corporation law. I'm just saying a few things in advance. D66 is always afraid of a cabinet that does not reform enough, a cabinet that does not handle enough business. We'll always keep the cabinet on that. With Mr Monasch, however, I have to conclude that this is a major change in the system, a reform that may be there. We owe this not least to the good work of our own committee of inquiry. The same applies to the fact that, in my view, the treatment now leads to broad support for reform in order to restore health to this system. With clear and concrete proposals, the Committee of Inquiry has made it clear that a number of things need to change within the system. I think that some of these things are actually going to change, in the direction of or in line with the proposals of our own committee of inquiry. It is indeed unique that a week after the debate with the committee, we are already coming to the end of the examination of the legislative proposal in which these proposals are actually translated into legislation. In my opinion, that is very positive. In doing so, the House of Representatives shows that it is seriously fulfilling its role as co-legislator and that it really ensures that it is not only the government's controller, but can also bring ideas and proposals into the law. This has been done in a playing field, let me say this again, in which a number of parties and organisations from the field wanted to tell the House of Representatives, through the lobby, for a long time and in a firm manner, what should happen and what could go wrong if civil society were not properly listened to. That was not only the corporate lobby, but also the lobby of VNO-NCW and Building Netherlands. They are always in the front line every week to say that market distortion is lurking, but now just send a letter in which they write: go and allow 10% outside the core tasks of corporations. In this sense, it has also been an interesting debate to find out which different ideas were all there. I think that the Chamber has heard a lot of noises and has had to make a lot of considerations in order to reach a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u38	Mr Verhoeven may criticise other parties. Much has also gone wrong, for which the sector certainly has to put its own hands into its own hands. However, I have missed that noise with Mr Verhoeven. Because he's going crazy now, I'm asking him if he hasn't been lobbied too much. Mr Verhoeven has been complaining all these years about the strong lobby that came and did all kinds of things, but he has not so far supported any fundamental changes, which at least my party has proposed. Does he want to admit that, too, horsemanly?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u39	I'm surprised at Mrs Karabulut. Last week she asked similar questions and suggested similar things. I told her to look at the Acts again. I hope she did this. I do not quite understand Mrs Karabulut's question. In addition, D66, as one of the parties that helped to support the housing agreement, has, of course, ensured that a lot of things have changed, for the better. Think, for example, of the cabinet's looming error, where 2.1 billion for the landlord's tax and the WOZ rent would lead to an incredibly toxic cocktail. With the Christian Union and the SGP, we have managed to mitigate this to a much more acceptable arrangement. So we have not only made proposals; we have also realised them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u40	This is still a bit of a flight ahead. I think it is healthy if you can look back and if you can also put your hands into your own bosom for things such as privatisation, self-determination, looking the very long way. The same goes for D66. That party now points to others, but she may also put her hand in her own bosom. That is all I ask of Mr Verhoeven. I think he can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u41	I certainly can. I would almost like to say the following. Mrs Karabulut asked the same question last week. I said there were two things. There are political choices from the past that you can say you still support or not. D66 still supports the independence of housing corporations. Have things happened in the past that have not gone quite well and D66 admits that it has been part of certain cabinets in which not everything has gone well? No more! That's what I said last week. It's in the Acts. That is why I find it rather childish of Mrs Karabulut to want to hear this again, but that clarity has been created. I will move on, because I still have two important issues. These are two topics that make a strong contribution to moving towards an efficient, targeted and effective housing corporation sector, a housing corporation sector that is responsible for building and managing social housing. I'll start with surveillance. Yesterday we also talked about the supervisor. My amendment has now been tabled. We have chosen to depart from the Minister's proposal for two supervisors, each of which is subject to a different ministry, which is fragmented supervision, and which is still quite close to those ministries. We have said: no, make one supervisor and guarantee his independence. We do so with an inspection model, because we believe that the Minister should be politically accountable to the House of Representatives if supervision does not work properly. The amendment for one authority housing corporations is also supported by the PvdA, the VVD, the CDA, the SP, the Christian Union and the SGP. They have co-signed the amendment. I have had less support for proposals; let me put it this way. I hope that the Minister feels really motivated by this to depart from his own proposal in the novella and to embrace this new proposal from the Chamber. Then I'll come to the tenants. Supervision is important and ensures that many abuses that have cost tenants a lot of money will no longer take place. Very important for supervision is the supervision at local level, the supervision of the tenants of all decisions of the corporate directors. Tenants have indeed been more often the party that has not been listened to and which has not been taken into account. With regard to the amendments tabled by the SP, PvdA and D66 groups, Mr Fritsma has made it quite clear that they can count on a majority in the House of Representatives. This means that the tenants could become the biggest winners of this legal treatment. On a number of points, they are granted the right of consent, advisory rights and the right to professionalisation. The latter, by the way, is based on our own amendment. We want to ensure that tenant organisations professionalise by having a maximum number of training days, can hire experts and get their own budget in advance instead of having to hand in a receipt every time they have had to make costs in carrying out their task, for example as tenant commissioner. The proposals for consultation and the tenant Commissioner are also likely to make it. With that, I think that the tenants really get a firmer position throughout the corporate landscape and the popular housing system. I think this might be the biggest profit of these two days. I'm happy about that. I'm gonna shut that down, too. I would also like to thank the Minister for his patient and comprehensive answer to all the questions. I thank him in advance for all the reactions to the amendments. I hope that in this way we can achieve a broadly supported housing corporation system that is future-proof and with which the Netherlands can move forward for many decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u42	Mr. Chairman. Last week and this week we had intensive debates on the rental market. That is also right, because we are talking about something very important, namely social housing, something on which many people depend. He's got a lot of attention, too. For the sake of time, I will confine myself to the amendments I have tabled, I will table another motion and I will make some final comments. Firstly, I would like to mention an amendment that I tabled together with Mr Bishop on whether or not to award European contracts. We want to tighten up the legislative proposal so that the possibility of Europe thinking about European procurement is reduced. A second amendment I have tabled concerns the size of the housing regions. There is now a lower limit of 100,000 households to form a residential region, but this may be difficult in some regions, especially in rural areas. There corporations often operate in multiple cores and village cores, also from the point of view of risk spreading. We think it is undesirable for this to be further reduced, but it is a possibility. It is therefore not the case that this limit should be imposed, but at least this gives the Minister more room to act on matters where undesirable situations arise because of the size of the housing region.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u43	I understand Mrs Schouten's concern, but I am showing beautiful housing companies in rural areas, for example in Achtkarspelen. A predecessor of this minister has named him the most beautiful housing corporation in the Netherlands. It owns a limited number of a few thousand homes, of which the corporate director simply knows who the contractors are and of which he knows, so to speak, the price of every renovation. He's on top of his tenants getting the best quality at a low price. There are many examples in rural areas, in shrinking areas as well as in rural areas, where small corporations know exactly what is going on and what they want. Is Mrs Schouten not afraid that her proposal is a kind of entrapment, a challenge to make these types of corporations more large-scale again, so that people do not cooperate by looking at where the inhabitants are? There are now very large corporations in East Groningen and Drenthe whose tenants now say: we would never have done so. Are you sure this is wise right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u44	The size of the residential region is not necessarily the size of the corporation. There are also smaller corporations operating in a much wider area, especially in the areas to which Mr Monasch refers: Friesland, Groningen and also Limburg. Very often, these corporations have good ties with the tenants. They also know the market well. They know the contractors. They have good ties with the city councils. I'm not so afraid of that. On the contrary, I believe that this will help to ensure that there is sufficient scope so that they can carry out their tasks properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u45	Now it is also the intention of this law that housing market areas should be linked to local democracy, to municipalities or to a housing market region of municipalities bordering on each other. Is Mrs Schouten not afraid that a second effect may then arise, namely that the corporations are so large and are working in so many places that they are again elusive to the democratic influence that we want to advocate in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u46	We have thought about this, including in the amendment. Mr Monasch will read that this is a request from two or more neighbouring municipalities. It must therefore be a coherent whole, so not that anyone in Amsterdam and then in Limburg is working. The area is therefore coherent. It is a request from two or more neighbouring municipalities. It is about giving that piece of flexibility that might be needed in some respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u47	Please continue, Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u48	Mr. Chairman. A third amendment, which I tabled with Mr Bishop and Mr Knops, deals with viability. Mr Knops mentioned it himself. What is meant by viability is already quite limited in the law and in Article 45 of the AMvB concept, as well as in the annex. There, however, it is very strict that it should only be possible for its own tenants, while you sometimes have to deal with mixed complexes. A number of liveability tasks must be carried out in the field of safety and the like. That cut is very complicated. So we just want to offer a bit of space within the frameworks and the demarcations that exist, so that you do not get complicated situations when there is still a purchase house in between in a complex. I have co-signed an amendment by Mr Bishop, Mr Knops and Mr Monasch which is important to us. This gives more room for corporations with a turnover of 30 million not to have to split or separate when the non-core tasks, the non-DAEB, represent a maximum of 5%. We have made a big point about the administrative burden and the costs involved. I think that in this way we can give a substantial part of the housing corporations room to carry out activities within the framework of the law that can be useful, without sacrificing the whole separation circus. I also have a motion, which I will read first. The first sentence is rather long, so pay attention! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a limitation in Rotterdam-Zuid and the shrinking areas of the SGEI may be processed by an authorised establishment of certain costs of activities aimed at restructuring non-DAEB-owned SGEI holdings up to 10% of the WPA value of the SGEI housing of the authorised institution in question in the Restructuring District, may lead to an undesirable limitation of socially necessary restructuring activities in those areas;]] [[noting that the Social Housing Guarantee Fund is already carrying out a test on the financial impact on the authorised institution of planned non-DAE investments;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the proposed limitation on the costs of such restructuring activities in Rotterdam-Zuid and the shrinking areas in the SGEIs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u49	Mr. Chairman. I have two remaining questions. The first one is about living vision. It's not mandatory right now. However, if I read the law and the concept of the AMvB correctly, a number of points, such as arbitration or the submission of a dispute to the Minister, refer to having a living vision. I don't want to impose all kinds of things on local authorities, but I do want the law to be right. Can the Minister give an insight into whether a residential vision should actually be compulsory, because otherwise tenants would not have the possibility of arbitration and such things? A second question concerns own resources policy. Under the temporary SGEI scheme, an own resources policy has now been introduced for the security provision to the WSW. The approved institutions have gained extensive experience and have been incorporated into work processes. Why doesn't the Minister choose to continue this policy? He stated in the AMvB that sales revenue could be used for internal financing from 2012, but in my opinion we now have a good own resources policy that has never been the subject of complaints. Isn't it an idea to make that possible, too, so that you don't get all kinds of differences between corporations? Finally, I am going to co-sign an amendment by Mrs Karabulut to give tenants more say. And, of course, I am signing the amendment on the supervision of Mr Verhoeven and others. I would also like to thank everyone for a good and intensive debate on the future of our beautiful housing corporation system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u50	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the way in which he spoke yesterday about the flood of questions and the proper way in which these questions were answered. That makes the final vote in plenary this evening a pleasure. Of course, I would also like to thank the official support which has been standing by permanently and which may have done a lot more in the background. Thank you for that! When we look back at the process, it is special to see how closely the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations and the measures set out in the novelle on the Revision Act are consistent. If you didn't know better, you'd suspect there's orderality of time. However, that is by no means the case. The funny thing is that almost throughout the entire process there has been parallel processes. The fact that the recommendations and the measures envisaged are in such a way in line with each other, of course, there are some differences here and there, and this gives us confidence that we are on the right track and that we have found a good package of measures that will make the whole corporation sector healthy again. On the one hand, it's a matter of your sober mind. How can you properly install checks-and-balances? On the other hand, it's just a matter of strictly analysing. What actually happened, what do we regret, what else do we want and how? It's interesting to see how that went so parallel. Now housing corporations can go back to what they have been created: provide affordable rental homes for groups that are less well equipped themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u51	Mr Bishop talks about a parallel process all the time. I think I understand what he means, but has it not been important that the Chamber has decided to deal with the Committee of Inquiry's report in detail before dealing with this law? This has not been a parallel process, but there is a certain order in it which has strengthened the position of the Chamber vis-à-vis the cabinet. I would like to ask this of Mr Bishop, even though his party always points out the importance of the Chamber and the state of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u52	Sure. Now I do not think so much in terms of strengthening your position vis-à-vis the cabinet, because that is not of the SGPs. However, I am thinking of the benefits that you have from taking a thorough analysis into the process, so that both as a cabinet and as a parliament you can say together: we now have a very good package of recommendations. I should also like to point out that the amendment to the Revision Act is already popular housing from much earlier date, before the committee of inquiry started work. In that sense, I mean parallel processes. The novelle is of slightly later date. I like to see that, let me put it this way. We have tabled a few amendments. Not because we consider the novelle or the Revision Act to be inadequate, but because we wanted to have a point here and there. A number of amendments have already been reviewed. There is another amendment to point No. 23 for, which simplifies the market test for corporations. This will enable the corporations to work more efficiently. That is an understatement of what is also the intention. We had tabled an amendment on viability, but we will withdraw it. If I remember correctly, it still stands formally. We have joined in the amendment tabled by the Christian Union and the CDA. So ours is moving in, but it has exactly the same intention. There is another amendment to reduce the administrative burden on small corporations. There is still work to be done on this; there is still a lot of work to be done on the legislative office. Mrs Schouten just referred to it; we will set up the amendment in such a way that it applies to corporations with a turnover of up to 30 million per annum that amount is indexed and a holding of non-DAEs that does not exceed 5%. These are services of general and economic interest, which are outside the core tasks. The core tasks must therefore cover 95% of the ownership of the corporation in question. That amendment will be tabled together with PvdA, CDA and Christian Union. In addition, it has already been shown that we have co-signed a number of other amendments. I don't need to repeat that. I would like to mention an amendment relating to the supervision of housing corporations and an amendment relating to the European call for tenders. We believe that these are all amendments which make the design of this novelle and of the Revision Act a little tighter. This means that we have talked about a law with which we can move forward over the next few years. Maybe 20 years; maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u53	I have another question about the amendment you have withdrawn. Is that the amendment to item No. 18?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u54	That is the amendment to item No. 18, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u55	The Bishop amendment (Doc. 18) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u56	Normally, you do not speak about an amendment that has been withdrawn, but Mr Bishop then referred to an amendment on viability which he tabled together with the CDA. Because I had prepared a question. Mr Bishop says that it is actually the same thing, but Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union has tabled another amendment, which is just a little bit more in search of space, in the vein of: if there is one person who already has a house of sale in an apartment of a corporation, then all kinds of weird constructions have to be devised in order to give the definition of viability still shape. Is that the same amendment? You referred to Mr Knops, but I heard Mrs Schouten speak about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u57	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u58	Well, then, luckily, that misunderstanding is out of the world. I am very pleased that Mr Bishop has withdrawn this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u59	I shall now suspend the sitting until 8:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u60	Could we please suspend a little longer in view of the amendments that are still in the pipeline? I would very much like the Minister to be able to advise on all the amendments when we resume the sitting. I am waiting for a number of my amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u61	I understand that there are some 20 amendments that are being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u62	I'm speaking for myself. If we suspend for half an hour, I think my amendments are in. I would like an opinion from the Minister on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u63	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u64	I think Mrs Karabulut's request is correct, but in view of the time, I think that we can be efficient by first doing the amendments that are already there. That's a lot of them. There are ten or so amendments and there will be ten more. Let's just treat the ten that are already there. I'm sure the other ten will come in. If it turns out that we still have to take a break, we should do so instead of waiting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u65	In total, some 60 amendments have been tabled, including 40 concepts. Twenty amendments have already been tabled. That's a little much.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u66	We're a little overactive. It happens all the time. Then it may happen that you get a commitment in a debate or that something turns out to be different from what you first thought. Not all draft amendments will actually be tabled here. Perhaps it is good to know how many amendments we are dealing with. Perhaps we can start fairly on time, but also give a little more space to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u67	For our part, you can expect one more amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u68	I'm sure you can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u69	Let us just do this carefully. If necessary, we shall meet for an hour longer, but this must be done carefully. Let us suspend until 9 p.m. Then the minister can take what's left. If there are other amendments after that, we will simply suspend them again. Then the Minister will have time to look at that again. This is too important to ruffle it off. We are talking about a law that still has years to go before we are all called on to the next parliamentary committee of inquiry. So I'd like to do it right. If necessary, let us take another break and then discuss the amendments that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u70	I agree with Mr Verhoeven's proposal. On the part of the CDA Group, one more amendment is on its way. I believe that we have reached a maximum of 20 amendments. We have already tabled all the amendments on which the Minister can already give an opinion. As far as I am concerned, we shall suspend for as long as the Minister needs, then we shall resume and then see how far we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u71	Of course, care is important and we must wait for all the important amendments, but I do not think that this should stand in the way of starting with the amendments that are already there and the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u72	Good. We are suspending until 9 p.m., assuming that all the amendments are in. Can you agree with that, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u73	I agree with those 20 minutes, but let us note that there are about 20 amendments and not 60. Those 20 amendments have already been tabled for the most part. We certainly have to be careful, but there are many amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u74	Then I would like to make new agreements on interruptions at the time of the resumption. If there are 60 amendments, it is not possible to interfere with each one. That's really not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u75	There are 20 amendments, not 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u76	Then we assume that they are twenty amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u77	Mr. Chairman. For my part, thank you for the contributions of the Members of Parliament. I recognised in everyone's input that it is extremely important that, after twenty years of discussion and a very thorough parliamentary survey, we are going to give political clarity to the tenants in the end, because that is what we are doing, about the rules in which housing corporations do their useful work. We want to avoid that the excesses, which have so much drawn the picture of housing corporations over the past few years, keep the image of the many good work permanently out of sight. We want to put an end to this situation. I have understood many of the motions and amendments tabled in such a way that many parties want to say: our basic attitude is that we would like to support this law if the Minister is willing to take a step in our direction here and there, in order to make it possible for the parties to agree on a broad basis for this law. From this basic point of view, I will respond to the amendments and motions that have been tabled and I will answer the questions that have been put to me. I shall begin with the amendments, knowing that I do not yet have all the amendments. I may have to conclude at the end of my speech that there are still amendments on the way. I would be happy to give an overview in writing tomorrow of my response to all the amendments and thus to clarify them. For the debate, I think it is appropriate to deal with the amendments that have already been tabled. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 20 by Mr Monasch to the effect that the PvdA intends to standardise all corporations within three years of the entry into force of the law at a maximum level of business charges of €600 per rental unit. I think it is important that business expenses are reduced. This is the reason why the law provides for the possibility of setting up an AMvB to standardise the operating costs. This amendment goes one step faster and says that this standard will take place in three years' time. In yesterday's debate, I indicated that I very much appreciate the step taken by Aedes to introduce a benchmark, and that I think that from that positive step of Aedes I am going too far again to say as a legislator that I am going to impose the norm. Although I share the ambition to standardize the size of the business burden, I think the amendment is now too sharp. That's why I don't recommend it. The amendment in part No. Mr Fritsma's 21 follow very literally the Committee of Inquiry's recommendation that non-DAEB activities should no longer be carried out at all. I want to make it clear under what circumstances non-DAEB activities are still possible, because I believe with Mr Fritsma that there have been too many derailments in this area. I also believe that if it is very clear that the market will not take on activities, non-DAEB activities should not be completely impossible, but should be strictly framed. This may be the case with the improvement of the structure of, for example, a very one-sided disadvantaged area or of a shrinkage area, where a village can really improve by demolishing part of the social stock and being replaced by a, generally, smaller number of free sector dwellings. For this reason, I do not recommend this amendment. By means of the amendment to item No. 22 Mr Fritsma wishes to limit the number of secondary posts of the members of the Supervisory Board or of the directors of a housing corporation to a maximum of one. There is already a legal limitation on the number of commissioners allowed to take on one person. This was achieved at the time by an amendment tabled by Mr Irrgang of the SP. As a result, the number of Commissioners allowed to have one person should not exceed five in total and the number of Presidents would double. Since there is already an arrangement covering all supervisory functions, I do not think it is appropriate to add an additional scheme specifically for the housing corporation sector. That is why I reject this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 23 by Mr Bisschop to improve the review of non-DAE activities. I think that is a very constructive amendment. It does indeed, in my opinion, lead to an improvement in the law. With a positive approach, I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 24 by Mrs Karabulut aims to bring the information position of tenants on an equal footing with that of the municipality. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that it is important for a good role of tenants and of tenant organisations that they have the necessary information. In my view, this amendment deals with this in a good way, so I am in favour of the amendment and I would like to leave it to the Chamber. With the amendment in part No. Mrs Karabulut's 25 is asked for a mandatory complaint regulation for the housing cooperative. The housing cooperative is still a very early form of housing. It is likely that residential cooperatives will often have a relatively limited size. That, of course, raises the question of whether it is up to the legislator to impose a complaint regulation at such an early stage. It is wise to have an arrangement in case the initial love between the cooperative partners cools a bit, so it can't hurt. All things considered, I leave the assessment of this amendment to the Chamber. With her amendment to part No. 26 Ms Karabulut wanted to regulate by law the provision of services of general economic interest to corporations and to be exempted from corporation tax. This will first of all have implications for the budget, so there will also be a need for cover, which is not included in the amendment. It is highly likely to be considered State aid by the European Commission, so negotiations should begin. Both reasons lead me to the opinion "dissuade" on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u78	I am surprised that the Minister mentions the argument that there should be negotiations with the European Commission, because it would see it as state aid. The Minister has amended the laws and we have discussed this law here today, precisely because of European rules. This is a division and the non-commercial branch, so that you do not get into trouble with the state aid scheme. That argument is therefore not valid. Yes, it will have implications for the budget, but that will have to be settled in the next budget. It's about the principle. I would ask the Minister if he would at least reconsider this and if he would at least undertake a serious investigation and inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u79	Mrs Karabulut's first point is that the tax obligation would not be there, because it concerns only social housing, SGEI activities. Therefore, the European Commission should not assess this as State aid. At the moment a lot of social housing is rented out by commercial institutions. They are in the hands of individuals, who are indeed liable to tax. That is why my assessment is that the exemption from corporation tax, exclusively from housing corporations that rent out social housing, is very vulnerable to state aid proceedings. In addition, I note that the budgetary consequences of the amendment immediately do not include coverage. For that reason, too, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u80	The Minister makes a claim here about the European route and whether or not it is state aid. I think that's the opposite of that. I would like the Minister to be involved in that discussion. The Minister cannot disagree with me that it is strange to say in this exercise first that it is not commercial, after all, it is social housing and then taxing it as a business. I think it would be fine if the regulation were to be extended. But at the very least, I would like the Minister to take this effort and to discuss the budgetary consequences, so that we, as a Chamber, can get back to this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u81	The amendment does not, of course, allow me to enter into consultation. If an amendment is adopted, the law will be amended from then on. I think that is wrong for the reasons I have indicated. If Mrs Karabulut means whether or not I would like to enter into consultations separately, I would still suggest that I have coverage for this amendment. It is, of course, not an amendment, but a request. However, I have no cover. Then I don't want to pretend that I can make such a wish. On balance, I continue to dissuade the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u82	For my consideration, I have one more question. Is that allowed with an amendment from others?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u83	If it really affects your voting behaviour, you can ask for explanations. You cannot discuss the amendment. Only the petitioner can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u84	Can the Minister indicate what amount we should think of? Is it also an option to do this next week, for example, in the Vpb obligation for public undertakings. This is not a public undertaking, but it may be affected by the involvement of the company in finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u85	In any case, it seems logical to me to have a discussion about which organisations are or are not subject to corporation tax with the Secretary of State for Finance. I would be happy to look into the exact tax revenue from corporation tax. I will inform the Chamber in writing. The Verhoeven c.s. amendment in piece No. 27 contains an amendment to the very much discussed supervisor. In that amendment, Mr Verhoeven, with broad support, makes a number of essential choices. The amendment says first of all: combine financial and housing supervision. Then it says: do so in the form of an independent authority, in terms of structure similar to the inspections we know, but not in the form of an independent administrative body, because the Chamber and the Minister would lose all political influence. I've made a different choice in the law. I supported that, too. However, now that the amendment says very explicitly that it is not a ZBO status but an independent status and that the amendment in the implementation opts for a combined supervision, I can say everything that I think is an executable supervisory structure, on which I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. The Verhoeven c.s. amendment in piece No. 28 involves adding a number of articles to this law on the position of tenant organisations, namely the possibility of inviting experts, the right to a number of training days and the obligation for the landlord to reimburse the costs. Normally this is regulated in the Law on consultation tenants landlord, not in this law. It is also a part that I have not discussed anywhere in the preliminary journey, not with housing corporations or with private landlords. The amendment would mean that the obligation would be imposed on both private landlords and housing corporations. This would also entail additional costs for both. I think that's a few big steps. If I had proposed it, I would have liked to have had discussions with organizations of commercial landlords and Aedes as representatives of the housing corporations. So I would prefer to see Mr Verhoeven enter into this discussion, for example, after I had the opportunity to hold such a discussion. This would then have to be done by amending the consultation law (Wohv), which could then take place on my initiative or on Mr Verhoeven's initiative. To include it now in the law by amendment, which means that it is also in force at once, I think it goes a long way. So if Mr Verhoeven is persisting now, then I should advise against it. In the Schouten amendment to item No. 29 the lower limit for the number of households for a housing market region is set at 200,000 in the form of a determination. I read it like this. If the Minister has to make the choice because municipalities have not come out of it, he can certainly lower the border in a region on the basis that it is an appropriate size for that region, but he will also keep that limit of 200,000 households in mind. In this way, I would like to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, because it will vary from one region to another whether or not that border is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u86	Mr Monasch, this is Mrs Schouten's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u87	I know, but this is an important point for my group. I have just had a debate on this with Mrs Schouten. She said it's about a can-determine. However, the explanatory memorandum states that 'to increase this limit to 200 000 in principle'. Then I lose the overview of what a determination is, because there is simply a new limit: basically 200,000. I think it would be very difficult if this were to be the new bar, because I can make it clear in these areas that it will be a huge area.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u88	I see the sentence Mr Monasch is referring to. Rather, the explanatory memorandum states that "the minister may require that the municipalities concerned collectively include at least 200,000 households." In the literal text of the amendment above, 2a reads: "Our Minister may decide not to comply with a request as referred to in paragraph 1, if." And then under b: "in those municipalities together there are less than 200 000 households." When I read it like that, it's a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u89	I can take a look at the explanatory statement, but it is clearly a possibility clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u90	The Schouten amendment in part No. 30 is about the European public procurement obligation. The purpose of the amendment is to prevent it. I indicated yesterday that it is not my ambition to bring corporations under the European procurement obligation. In the end, I will not make that judgment myself, but the European Commission will do so. Where the amendment is intended to include an additional safety valve, which can also be used in a debate when the European Commission comes to this point, I fully understand the thrust of the amendment and leave it to the Chamber. The Monasch/Karabulut amendment to item No. 31. It introduces the possibility of forced "defusion." "Spliting" I'd say. I firmly believe that a government is not in a position to divide a legal person or a housing corporation, because that would be an infringement of the right of ownership guaranteed, inter alia, by the ECHR. I find it undesirable to include an article in a law that the government will not be able to implement in practice. That is why I must not recommend this amendment. In Monasch's amendment to item No. 32 provides that a member of a supervisory board or a supervisory board of an approved institution may not sit on another supervisory board together with a fellow commissioner from the same supervisory board. This should prevent the old boys network from naming each other. I can well imagine the intention of the amendment. It is also feasible, so I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. These are the amendments I have so far. I shall now turn to the motions and the questions I have still to ask. I shall begin with Mrs Karabulut's motions. She filed a number of motions. In the motion in part No. 34 the government is asked not to reduce the stock of social housing and to bring the stock to the old level. At present, the corporation itself decides on the sale or liberalization of its own assets. At present, the corporation itself decides on the sale or liberalization of its own assets. The law adds an additional guarantee. I refer to the performance agreements made with the municipalities on the basis of the Housing Vision. The amendments will also strengthen the position of the tenant. I think that's a proper guarantee. I wouldn't think it right if we were to decide centrally here from The Hague that corporations should not sell social housing in any situation, because it could be in the interests of a mixed neighborhood or a healthy building of housing stock in town or village to sell part of the stock somewhere. A motion as strict as this, which is actually a hard ban, should therefore really be discouraged. Mrs Karabulut has in part No. A motion was tabled calling on the government not to freeze the liberalization limit. In fact, that was not part of this debate. However, I have announced that I intend to freeze the liberalisation limit for three years from 2016. In doing so, I am giving on the one hand to private investors who want to build just above the social rental border, where there is very little supply, the assurance that their housing stock will not suddenly fall below the social rental border. On the other hand, knowing that corporations would like to use most of their assets below the social rental limit, it will be an effect of freezing that border that property will remain below that limit. On balance, therefore, I consider this freeze to be a sensible measure. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In Mrs Karabulut's motion to item No. 38 the government is asked to urge Aedes to include top salaries under the collective agreement and to inform the Chamber accordingly. First of all, through the Top Income Standards Act, we have introduced a limit on the salaries of corporate directors. I note with Mrs Karabulut that the maximum space is currently being sought. But after the transitional period, the law will really reduce the level of salaries. I said yesterday that I think it is logical that, in their negotiations with housing companies as employers, the trade unions should demand that management members be included in the collective agreement. But I do not think it is up to me to interfere in the collective bargaining process, because I am simply not a party to it. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u91	You have the motion in part No. 37 by Mrs Karabulut skipped. She has a question about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u92	I do indeed have a question on the Minister's advice on the motion for a resolution. 38. I was pleased to hear the Minister say yesterday that he would find it logical if corporate directors were simply covered by a collective agreement. I do not ask the Minister to interfere in the collective bargaining process, but I would ask him, by means of this motion, to inform Aedes that he has that opinion, that he seems very sensible and that he would like to pass it on to Aedes. With this explanation, I would like to refer the motion to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u93	Yeah, it's kind of in my person that I never like it that much, where you're dressed as a minister with solid instruments that can be deployed if necessary, to have some kind of fatherly conversations. Because the sturdy instruments we use here, where I think of the Law standards top incomes. To go and tell Aedes to bring things under the collective agreement, although I think that's quite logical, I don't like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u94	I'm not asking for paternal conversations. The Minister has a lot of conversations with Aedes. I would nevertheless ask him to bring the motion to the attention of Aedes. First of all, the Minister considers the idea behind the motion to be very logical, whatever it is. Secondly, it is also about the interest of the tenants, who would also greatly appreciate this. Thirdly, the Minister has an exemplary role to play. I think that makes an impression and that Aedes can eventually take that into account in the considerations and considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u95	Mrs Karabulut notes that I am not so enthusiastic about this and that I choose the route of the Top Income Standards Act. In the meantime, I have found the motion I had skipped, namely the motion in part No. 37. It invites the Government to examine whether, and under what conditions, the number of subsidiaries can be limited. The law requires approval for the creation of subsidiaries. I am not thinking so much of a numerical criterion, which I would not be able to think of so quickly, but of a factual test in the creation of a subsidiary. I therefore consider this motion to be a policy support. Then I come to the motion on part No. 39 in which the government is invited to report to the Chamber on the progress of the findings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations on a six-monthly basis. Mr Monasch had asked me to do so at least in mid-2016. I actually hope that, if I now pledge to Mr Monasch that I will do so by mid-2016, we can decide whether we need a half-yearly report in the following years. We get the state of housing every year anyway. This motion immediately obliges me to report on a half-yearly basis, but I can imagine that it would be sufficient if it were to be done in the following years through the State of housing. I would actually ask that the motion be retained. I just don't think that's gonna take that long. That is why I would ask you to withdraw the motion now and, in the middle of next year, after the first half-year report, to take stock of the situation. Then I come to the motion on part No. 40 by Mr Van der Linde, Mr Monasch and Mr Verhoeven. It invites the government to disclose the financial data in such a way that they are accessible as open data to all interested parties. I am sympathetic to that. I also recognise the importance of open data. I assume that Mr Van der Linde understands that I cannot disclose really business-sensitive data. Under this condition, I would be happy to carry out this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 41 by Mr Van der Linde, in which the government is asked to consider, when examining the guarantee system, how to strengthen the incentive for municipalities to manage risks effectively, and to consider whether it is possible to differentiate the premium for the Guarantee Fund according to risk profile. I'd be happy to take those two requests with me in the ongoing investigation. So I would also like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. In his speech, Mr Knops stressed the importance he attached to maintaining the possibility of restructuring and shrinking activities. I can see the importance of that. The amendments which aim to ensure, within reasonable limits, that support for restructuring and shrinkage becomes a little more possible than I propose in the law, but which are still justified, I would like to support, also from the point of view that we can all say: we are in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u96	We are in favour of Mr Knops' motion on item No. 42. The minister's talking about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u97	That is because Mr Knops has also asked me a number of questions. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Van der Linde had asked me no more questions. Mr Knops also asked me to comment on Allen & Overy's opinion that the European Commission's rules would allow companies with turnover below EUR 40 million to be exempted from a division between SGEIs and non-DAEBs. I don't share the judgment of those lawyers. In fact, in the note following the report, I indicated that in 2009 an agreement was made specifically for the Dutch social housing sector between the then cabinet and the European Commission. After that, there was a discussion between people from my ministry, both in my period and that of my predecessors, on whether there was any possibility of extending some of it. However, the only part for which this possibility was still available was the temporary extension of the income limit. It's in this law, too. This was not possible in other areas. That is why I said at the time and still say that there is no more room in Europe than is currently being offered. In his motion in part No. 42 requests the name Knops, one year after the entry into force of the Revision Act, to evaluate the Aedes benchmark and to include an obligation to do so with AMvB, if not all corporations participate in this benchmark. I respond to this in line with my response to Mr Monasch's amendment, which called for a mandatory set of operating costs. This motion calls for all corporations to be required to participate after one year. Where Aedes has done a good job by setting up that benchmark and is not yet 100% but high, I would prefer to encourage it by first giving the opportunity to increase the participation rate and the number of topics on which information is provided automatically than to use the legal knot immediately. I would prefer to have another debate with the Chamber in a few years' time. I hope that we will then be able to see that the sector itself has taken this further step forward. I'd rather do that than force it now with the knot.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u98	I have tabled this motion to prevent the Minister from having paternal conversations that he is not very enthusiastic about, as he has just said to Mrs Karabulut. The motion is meant to be a stick behind the door. From the past we know that non-members of Aedes were not so close to all kinds of standards that were imposed. That is one of the reasons why some things in the sector have gone wrong. They get a year's chance. That's the stick behind the door. The measures do not therefore have the immediate force of law. Is the Minister still choosing the fatherly conversations in the interim period or is he saying that the motion can be helpful in the goals we are pursuing?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u99	Nor have I announced that I would like to have a fatherly conversation with Aedes on this. I really want to leave a good initiative to space first. We have already noted that, at least in the beginning, we will discuss the state of the housing market twice a year and in any case in a structural manner. Then let us look each other deeply in the eye and see if there is any need for compulsion. It's a slightly different weighting. The motion Knops/Schouten in part No. 43 requests that the list of authorised services of general economic interest in relation to social real estate be supplemented by primary schools and Youth and Family Centres, subject to the condition that they are based on profitable plans. That last addition, in line with Mr Monasch's interruption yesterday, I understand that there is also an operating contract for the business life of such a property underneath. As far as I am concerned, this request is also clearly included in the category of constructive efforts by Mr Knops and Mrs Schouten to secure broad support for the law. That is why I am in favour of this motion. I will also carry this out if she is accepted by the Chamber. The Knops motion in part No. 44 calls on the government to include in the state of housing an overview of the state of implementation of the housing visions and regional areas of work. I think that's a logical request. In the end, it is an important part of the law that these housing visions and those regional areas of work will be introduced, so I will be happy to carry out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u100	I had asked a question in secret, namely whether the WSW could also be taken into account in the state of housing. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u101	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u103	Mr Monasch asked whether when a legal division was chosen and the subsidiary also had SGEI ownership, that SGEI ownership was also covered by the agreements of the regional housing vision. The answer to that is yes, because it is a 100% daughter of that corporation. That corporation makes agreements, so those agreements will therefore relate to the SGEI ownership that is in the subsidiary. Mr Monasch also asked whether arrangements such as Koopgarant and "I build affordable in Almere" remain possible. I said yesterday that it is certainly the intention that sitting tenants can keep buying at a discount. I took a swing at my arm because I can't go behind my table yesterday and look behind this cathedral today at the exact details of all the arrangements. I hope that I can reassure Mr Monasch with my undertaking that I want this type of arrangement to remain possible and that I will look at the specific arrangements that exist. Mr Monasch also asked whether it was true that management corporations are part of the ongoing experiment programme at Platform31. That's right. I have already replied in the affirmative to his question as to whether I would like an initial evaluation to take place on 1 July 2016. I have already responded to both of Mr Fritsma's amendments. In the Verhoeven motion to item No. 46 is requested that the management letter of housing corporations should also be sent to the financial supervisor by default. That seems to me to be a sensible measure, so I am in favour of this motion. Mrs Schouten asked what the position of tenants is in a municipality in which one chooses not to make a living vision, as the living vision is the basis for arbitration under this bill. First of all, I am convinced that a municipality has such a great interest in drawing up a housing vision that this will generally happen. After all, the vision of residence is the basis for making performance agreements with a corporation. Mrs Schouten does have a point that, if not, this bill does not provide a basis for recourse to arbitration. In such a case, the consultation law offers the possibility for the tenant organisation to go to the Rent Committee, but this law does not offer that possibility. That does not mean that I have to say immediately that we have to make the vision of residence compulsory. I believe that the national government should be cautious in imposing obligations on municipalities. Mrs Schouten does, however, have a point: there is no reference to arbitration in those municipalities where there is no living vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u104	I thank the Minister for this answer. I don't want to impose all kinds of obligations either. I note, however, that the residential vision on that point is an important crochet in this bill. Could the Minister promise that he is going to look at Mr Knops' motion, and that is a bit in line with Mr Knops's motion, how is the development of the housing vision going? If we find that there is no living vision in a number of municipalities for a very long or structural period, I find that a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u105	I'd be happy to say so. I have just said that, as was requested in Mr Knops' motion, I want to give an overview in the state of housing of the housing regions and the development of housing visions. In doing so, we can also see whether there are any gaps. My guess is this isn't gonna be so bad. If that is not the case, then we can still discuss how to fill these gaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u106	Before we go into the debate to fill those gaps, an incentive towards the VNG might be a first good move in the vein of'really look at it, because it is very important'. After that, I think we should check with each other to see if we still need to legally anchor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u107	Yes, it seems to me that we should then simply conduct the debate on the basis of the facts that I will provide to the Chamber. Mrs Schouten also asked why I did not use the WSW's own resources policy as a basis for the space that corporations have to invest in the non-DAEB and why I choose sales proceeds after 2012. The question of when there would be state aid is very closely addressed here, because money raised in the SGEI part, i.e. in the housing part, is really going in the direction of commercial activities here. The bigger you make the source from which to draw, the greater the risk of a state aid procedure being launched and that it will be successful. That's why I set the border by 2012. Mrs Schouten also tabled a motion together with Mr Knops, on item No. 49. This motion concerns the scope for restructuring in Rotterdam-South and the shrinking regions. In my concept of AMvB, I offer space to both areas, which deserve special attention. The loss that may remain in the SGEI because of demolition and because housing is partly replaced by non-DAEB housing may amount to a maximum of 10% of the WPA value. The motion by Mrs Schouten and Mr Knops states that these are areas with a major task and that this 10% standard should therefore be omitted and replaced by the judgement of the Guarantee Fund. I'm assuming that the supervisor's judgment is part of this. They should both indicate that it is financially justified to make non-DAE investments in that area. I am in favour of this motion. I can tell the authors that this will make the legislative proposal as a whole a good step forward for them. Following Mrs Karabulut's question, I said that I would try to find out how much the income from corporation tax was. That amount has now been given to me. In 2012, it was 49.5 million euros. That's a substantial amount of money. Mr Bishop has not asked any additional questions, but he has expressed the hope that we will now be able to move forward for another 20 years. I hope so with him. Honestly, I have faith in it, too. In the meantime, a number of amendments have been tabled to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u108	Are you able to give them some advice tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u109	That's what I'm gonna do. If anything is very unclear to me, I will ask for leniency. Because I haven't really been able to prepare it. Then I shall return to it in writing. However, it looks clear. First of all, the amendment on item No. 33 by Mr Van der Linde. This amendment provides for the possibility of issuing rules at AMvB on the way in which the guarantee, and in particular the supervision of it by the Minister, has been regulated. This seems logical to me from the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry. However, I have said that I would like to make sure that the form in which we carry out supervision does not result in the amount secured by the WSW being added to the public debt. I do think it would be a good addition to the bill to at least provide the opportunity to ensure this supervision at AMvB. I am therefore in favour of this amendment and leave it to the House to decide. The amendment in part No. 36 also belongs to Mr Van der Linde. This amendment makes it clearer when to choose a market player instead of a corporation when the market test shows that there is a serious candidate. That is indeed a useful clarification of the legislative proposal, so I am also in favour of this amendment. The amendment in part No. 47, by Mr Monasch and Mrs Karabulut, requires performance agreements between municipalities, tenants and authorised institutions. That is legally very complicated because you can ask the parties to sit around the table, but cannot oblige them to come to an agreement. An appointment calls for agreement. This is an obligation that is not enforceable in practice. That is why I must not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u110	There may be two different legal opinions here at some point. Many lawyers and other legal advisers deserve a very well invested sandwich. This is possible on the basis of the information we have from the Bureau of Legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u111	Then I suggest that I return to this tomorrow in writing, otherwise we will have a well-naïve debate here. I want to speak to my own lawyers about this. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 47 I will come forward with a written judgment tomorrow. The amendment in part No. 48, also by Mr Monasch, aims to give tenant organisations a full role in achieving performance agreements between municipalities and corporations and to ensure their information position. This fits logically in with the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry and indeed provides a good strengthening of the position of tenants. I am therefore in favour of this amendment and leave it to the House to decide. The amendment in part No. Mrs Karabulut's aim is to give tenant organisations a right of consent to decisions such as rent, rental harmonisation and sales. I also said yesterday that I am in favour of strengthening the position of tenants, as I indicated in the previous amendment. But when it comes to really big financial consequences and thus also a major influence on, for example, maintenance, on new construction and the financial continuity of a corporation, I think that a right of consent for one party goes too far. That is why I must not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u112	Should the Minister think that: it is of course not the intention for the tenants to determine that independently. It is not the same in the amendment. The point is that tenants and admitted institutions come together and come out together, precisely because the tenant knows what is good for the tenant at all points that the minister mentions. That's how it's balanced. Perhaps the Minister can reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u113	I do not think "balance" is the right wording. Assent really means that a rent increase or a sale decision can't go ahead. This may put a corporation in a situation where there are no means of maintenance or where continuity is compromised. Then such a corporation eventually ends up in a reorganisation and then you still have to take such measures. That is why I find it really undesirable to regulate a legal right of consent for this type of decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u114	You can turn it around. That is exactly what this amendment aims to do, namely to avoid unnecessarily high rents and to prevent housing from being withdrawn from the social stock. In order to reach agreement and agreement on this, you need to consult with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u115	The size of the social stock will be part of the local consultation, in which we secured the position of the tenants with the previous amendment. I do not think this is related to the right of assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u116	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u117	Mr. Chairman. I have not been able to prepare for the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u118	We are dealing with the amendments to Parts Nos. 51, 52, 53 and 54.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u119	Either I need a suspension for that, or I'll come back tomorrow in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u120	Let me see if there is any possibility of doing so in the short term. I think you have the amendments to parts Nos. 51, 52 and 53 received.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u121	I did get them, but I'd like to have a little talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u122	That's fine. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u123	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u124	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, I come to the amendment to item No. 51. That's the most complicated part of the line. That amendment introduces a right of assent for a number of situations, namely mergers, except where there is an acute financial rescue, connection and appointment of directors. A right of consent is very difficult. I've reported that before. We have to consider this carefully, especially when we consider that the tenant's position on the supervisory board has already been secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u125	I think Mrs Karabulut is trying to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u126	The Minister refers to the amendment to item No. 51. He states that this is also a right of assent for the appointment of directors, but that is not the case. It's about mergers and connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u127	It says under 2a: the Supervisory Board does not appoint directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u128	Excuse me. That is omission because that is not the intention. This was in the amendment but it should have been out. We're gonna get it out. We're going to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u129	Then the amendment to item No. 1 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. 51 amended. So that is still being submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u130	That situation therefore lapses in the amended version. Then consent is needed for mergers, subject to the situation of acute financial rescue. In addition to a situation of acute financial rescue, I can imagine that a good basis for a merger could be that the corporation does not have sufficient investment capacity, without really being in financial difficulty, and could create a larger investment capacity by joining with an industry partner in the neighborhood. Such a desirable merger would not necessarily depend on the right of consent of the tenants. The next issue with regard to the right of assent is the establishment of links. In any case, in one situation, I find that very strange, namely where a housing corporation opts for a legal division under the law that is now before us. It would therefore be subject to the right of assent. In other situations, I can't completely oversee this. I understand that the amendment is being amended in any case, but I also have serious questions about the other parts. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. If a qualified advisory right is chosen, which would mean that it would only be possible to deviate from it on well-defined grounds, it would be a lot easier for me. Maybe the proposers could think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u131	Unfortunately, things didn't go well in the hurry. That's too bad. We are going to amend the amendment. This also applies to the other point which the Minister considers unclear. Can I still get a written response tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u132	Yeah, I'll give it to you. I come to the amendment to item No. 52 by Mr Monasch. This is intended to ensure that a corporation will allocate a property with a rent below the capping limit to all those seeking housing. As Mr Monasch knows, I think it is very important that it is properly allocated that affordable housing is actually allocated to people with the lowest incomes. Before that, I put a hook in the law, so to speak. I would like to be very careful about the way it is worked out. As sharp as this amendment puts it, I cannot guarantee it everywhere. It depends on the composition of the local housing stock and on the target group whether you are really going to succeed in assigning 100% to the people with rent allowance below the capping limit. In some places, that just won't work. That is why I would like to go in the same direction as Mr Monasch, which is appropriate, but I should like to advise against an amendment as well as this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u133	We share the same intention. What I'm worried about is that it hasn't happened in the past. Soon we will be able to incorporate it into the law, but then we will be able to choose again in practice. Especially since you see that corporations have disposed of much of the cheaper property. What's new is often in the higher segment. I am looking for a way to ensure that we make the most of it in order to get an affordable accommodation for the target group. That is why I tabled the amendment in this way, but if the Minister has any other suggestion, please. But I'd like to hear it now. That's what my concern is about. That is why I admit: strict amendment. I am very afraid that otherwise we will not achieve that objective. I would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks he can achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u134	I'm in agreement with Aedes, who, on his own, shares the intention. I am prepared to come to the Chamber with a proposal on how I would like to fill in that appropriate allocation. I would ask Mr Monasch for some clemency, because I would like to work this out well. It's probably gonna ask for an ingrowth path. That is why I ask Mr Monasch to give me that space. He can, of course, address me critically, but I would ask him not to go all the way with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u135	Can the Minister indicate when he thinks he'll come to the Chamber with a piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u136	That'll be next spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u137	With that commitment, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u138	The Monasch amendment (Doc. 52) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u139	The Karabulut amendment c.s. in piece No. 53 aims to strengthen the position of tenants by introducing the tenant consultation. In my view, this amendment also follows logically from the recommendations of the parliamentary inquiry, so I am in favour of it and I would like to leave it to the Chamber. The Schouten amendment in part No. 54 concerns only a change in the explanatory notes on the number of households in the form of a determination. I am sticking to my opinion on the judgment of the Chamber, which I had already given on the original amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u140	Let me come back to the previous amendment. It is not a substantive point, but I saw that on the list published on the website it is referred to as the amendment on the referendum. That seems a little exaggerated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u141	That is the Karabulut amendment to the Constitution, I assume, but we are not dealing with that now. I hope I have commented on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u142	If there is another amendment by Mrs Schouten to item No. 45. It was filed, but apparently something went wrong with the mailing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u143	Given the length of the amendment, I propose that tomorrow I respond in writing to this amendment and to Mrs Karabulut's amended amendment. 'Cause I'm gonna respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u144	You will now be handed a piece of paper and everyone is curious about what's on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u145	I would like to say that the note states that the amendment clarifies the way in which life is defined. I do appreciate that this is on the note, because the explanatory statement is indeed too long to read so quickly. I am advised to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Let me follow the advice of my officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u146	I see Mrs Schouten shining all the way. Thank you. Who was the first to appear at the interrupting microphones? Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u147	At the SGP the ladies lead!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u148	Thank you! There are two further amendments from the SP Group that the Minister does not yet have. Do you think he'd like to take that with him tomorrow? I believe that there will also be an amendment from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u149	The same applies to one amendment tabled by my group on the reduction of administrative burdens for smaller corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u150	Yes, you had already announced that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u151	I have a small point of order. There's a not very long pipeline. The people of Bureau Legislation are working very hard, for which I am grateful. Is there an estimate of how long it will be before those few amendments come? If it is going to take a long time, I agree with the Minister's proposal to answer them in writing, but if it is a matter of a few minutes, I think it is right to do so in this context. Then we can still respond to the Minister. That possibility is lacking if we receive a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u152	There's gonna be a letter from the minister anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u153	In any case, I will have to respond to Mrs Karabulut's amended amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u154	Information is now being sent to the Legislative Office. We'll wait and see. You were done with the answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u155	I have all responded to the amendments I have received so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u156	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. We have a maximum speaking time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u157	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a good debate; that may also be said. Last week and this week we looked at a number of important points where things went wrong. The Chamber is united in its view that there has been a failure in terms of supervision, governance and political responsibility, that privatisation and looking away have led to the loss of billions of social capital and that the tenant has been allowed to pay the bill. That is why it is a good thing that a number of rules on supervision are now being drawn up. There will be one supervisor and the tenant will finally be put back at the centre of a number of important rights. I have tabled two important amendments. Coincidence or not, they are politically quite relevant amendments. With the first amendment, I want to ensure that the supervisory boards for a third party must consist of tenant directors. With the second amendment, I would like to avoid closing the door for the transfer of social housing to the commercial sector. These two amendments have not yet been accepted. The last amendment is essential, combined with the freezing of the liberalisation limit, the raising of rents and the tackling of the point system. If the Minister is not prepared to take action, tens of thousands of homes will be transferred to the commercial, priceless branch. It would be very harsh if we were finally to make the sector better, but if the tenant were to have far too little say in social housing and continue to be faced with towering rents, we would actually sell out that housing. That must be prevented. My group will take this into account in its final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u158	Mr. Chairman. I think we have found a broad basis and broad support for this bill. I hope that we will get the SP in this too, because that is where I listened to doubts that I didn't hear before. I would like to thank the official support, both here in the Chamber of the Legislative Bureau and the Minister. I have the feeling that we are going to give the Minister a very nice birthday present for tomorrow, because I think I know that the Minister is going to celebrate a special birthday in an hour and a half. However, the Minister will not receive this present until the day after tomorrow, because then we will vote. I'm hoping for a happy ending.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u159	I was afraid you were going to say, "We'll stay here until noon."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u160	I'd like to make an order proposal of that or we'll sit in Nieuwspoort for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u161	Mr. Chairman. Our group is also looking back at a number of dynamic days in which we have not only talked to the Minister about the novelle, which has been going back and forth for several years between this house and the First Chamber, but also had the debate with the Committee of Inquiry. This cannot be seen in isolation because the results and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry have contributed to this debate. That's the way it's supposed to be. I think that the Chamber has taken a great deal of action in this respect. The content of the debate was intense and good. The Minister listened carefully to the comments and contributions made by the various political groups. Although I do not have all the judgments, but that is not up to the Minister, I assume that we are looking at this with a positive attitude. I am going back to my own group to present this bill in this way. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister and the officials who have contributed to this. I think that for housing in the Netherlands this is an extremely important moment in which the limits are now set. The system was once designed with good thoughts, which we still support. However, there were no limits. These are drawn again. This can be discussed, but the most important thing is that these lines are drawn up. I am assuming that this can only improve the situation and that social housing can be a good future thanks to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u162	Thank you. In the meantime, your amendment to item No. Fifty-four e-mailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u163	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and his staff, who have been working on this very intensively for a long time, but also for the last few days. I would also like to thank those people who are working a little further back in this house, at Bureau Legislation, to make it all right. I have another question about the 100% daughter in case SGEI ownership reaches the daughter. As far as we are concerned, as long as an SGEI is held, regardless of the share of the corporation that is still in the subsidiary, the construction should never be used to transfer SGEIs to another connection and subsequently to withdraw ownership from the performance agreements. I hope the Minister agrees with that intention. We have just found that there is a difference of opinion. 47. We think it is very important because it also affects the government agreement, where it explicitly states that the corporations are made subordinate to the municipality. This is really an amendment, and I am looking at the Minister, and I assume that we are going to look at it in order to get out of it legally, because it is a fairly substantial part of this law for the Labour Party. In that light, we even had an amendment ready to include a penalty clause if performance agreements were not complied with. In the light of this discussion, I shall refrain from doing so. I do have a motion in this regard, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities provide €45 billion in back-up for corporate loans;]] [[Whereas municipalities are already able to impose conditions on any WSW loan granted in respect of this back-up;]] [[Considering that many municipalities currently opt for a general back-up facility that is not directly linked to individual loans;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for municipalities to become more critical of the performance of the authorised institutions for which they are guarantors;]] [[calls on the government to make it clear to municipalities how they can steer more towards the performance of authorised institutions for which they are guarantors through the back-up position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33966-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u164	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the support. In conclusion, it is now high time that the great cleansing of the corporate world began. The underlying legislative proposal is clearly a step in the right direction. The same applies to a number of amendments tabled. All in all, society and tenants are better protected against malpractice by housing corporations. That's good, of course. I would stress, however, that the problems of tenants do not all disappear. For example, they are still faced with these terrible rent increases. The PVV has always opposed this and will continue to oppose it. There is therefore much to discuss with the Minister in future debates. As far as the drafting of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry in the underlying legislative proposal is concerned, I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u165	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We have had a parliamentary committee of inquiry with 57 recommendations. We spent about 14 hours debating it. I believe that we have tabled 12 motions and some 25 amendments with a number of relevant changes to the proposal before us, thanks to our committee of inquiry. In summary, we must note that the tenants are given a much stronger position. We have a supervisor who says almost the entire Chamber: this is the way we have to do it. We have had a core discussion, in which we have drawn limits, as Mr Knops rightly said. Of this, my group says: let us treat these borders in the same way and not stretch them over the next few years so that we can go back to the wrong way, but let us maintain areas, both the old urban areas and the shrinking areas, and make sure that corporations can do their job there. All in all, I think that we have weighed up all the different proposals in a fairly balanced way. Let us hope that the good feeling that I have at least now applies not only to this evening and not only to tomorrow, but that, for example, we will still have that good feeling in twenty years' time, if we look back on this law, which we can see as being adopted on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u166	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, at the start of the debate, I said: it is the art of finding a good balance between what space we want to give to housing corporations, including in terms of viability, and how we can prevent the excesses of recent years from re-emerging. After two days of debate, I think we have found that balance. I think, depending on what amendments and motions are adopted, that we have properly secured supervision, that the position of tenants has been strengthened and that we also leave room in, for example, the old urban districts and in the shrinking areas, so that the corporations can do a little more when the market fails. For my group, the following points are still important. First of all, how will we look at the amendment we have tabled on the issue of quality of life? In addition, Mr Bishop's amendment, which everyone is still waiting for, about space for smaller housing corporations not to end up in an administrative circus if they have a small part of non-DAEB. And how to deal with the space requested in the motion from me and Mr Knops for shrinking areas and Rotterdam-South. I have good hope, given the Minister's opinion on this too. I would like to thank the Minister for keeping his constructive and listening ears for the last few days. I would also like to say a few warm words to the officials and to the Bureau of Legislation, who have worked very hard and may have contributed to this result.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u167	Mr. Chairman. I find it remarkable how parallel processes run, because, indeed, the approval of the last amendment has just been given. If I finish this minute, the amendment will be carried in under glorious tones and commented on by the Minister. I am not going to repeat my thanks to you, Mr President, or else I will promote inflation, and I do not want to do so. I agree with all those Members who have expressed their gratitude for the way in which the debate on this subject has taken place, with some sensitive parts. I think this is something that can inspire us to engage in this debate more often. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u168	Mr. Chairman. For Mr Bishop's glorious tones, it is still too early. However, in the contribution of all the speakers, I first of all hear a great deal of commitment to the subject and also the conviction that it is therefore a good thing that we now come to a conclusion. Mrs Karabulut still has doubts as to how the balance of the law will fall. Others have indicated that they can support the law, provided that a number of important motions or amendments can count on a majority. Of course, I am very pleased with that. It is crucial to clarify not only the corporations, but also commercial investors who want to enter the rental market. But for everything we must now clarify to the tenants and prevent them from having to pay again in the future for adventures which they have no part in, but which do not have the consequences of getting over them. A few specific questions have been asked. Mr Monasch asked me once again to go into the point that should not be locked away through a subsidiary of SGEIs in order to be excluded from the performance agreement. I agree with him. That is precisely not the purpose of the legal division. I am going to take a critical look at the amendment to item No. 47. I will return to that tomorrow in the written response. Mr Monasch also tabled a motion on the position of the municipality with regard to the WSW deposit. He asked the government to make it clear to the municipalities how they would be able to control the performance of authorised institutions more effectively through their back-up position. I also fully understand the thrust of the motion. Municipalities can state very explicitly that they are willing to be bailed out on condition that they agree with the corporation and tenants on the performance to be delivered. I agree with that approach, so I will clarify that position of the municipality in my elaboration of the new way in which we deal with the WSW. I didn't get any new questions. However, I would like to conclude with Mrs Schouten's assessment of the outcome of the debate and its impact in the legislative proposal with the amendments that are before us. The adoption of this law is a step ahead of us. For me, as Mr Van der Linde said, it would indeed be a nice birthday present. I think we can conclude with each other that social housing in the Netherlands has been perhaps far from home recently, but is coming home with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u169	The amendments have now been copied. They shall be replied to in writing. Mr Knops, you disagree?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u170	We just made an appointment. We would consider whether it was possible to bring them in or, as Mr Bishop said, carry them in. Unless the Minister says he can't judge it, I would suggest that we discuss it now, as we agreed. That's not a new proposal. As far as the amendments that are not yet available are concerned, we can close them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u171	That is fine, but it is also important to create the space to look carefully at the amendments. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Are you able to comment on the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u172	If I get five minutes, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u173	I'll let you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u174	Mr. Chairman. Mr Knops's amendment to item No. 55 which is intended not to impose a market test in the event that a corporation demolishs existing property and owns the land on which it stands, since in that case a corporation can hardly be forced to subsequently offer that land on the market means simplification without, in my opinion, market spoilment. I am therefore in favour of this amendment, on which I would like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. To the amendment in part No. 57 by Mr Bishop, tabled together with Mr Monasch, Mr Knops and Mr Schouten, I had to take a closer look because I saw an earlier version of this amendment where the turnover limit was lower and where a separation between income and charges was sufficient if less than 5% of SGEI activities were carried out. However, that amendment had a useful addition by saying that the expansion of non-DAE activities should not exceed 10% of the investment in SGEIs. In this way, the much discussed corner house should be made possible. I honestly miss that in this amendment, which would be a useful addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u175	On that point there has been some confusion in the discussion about the precise layout of the amendment. Let me put it this way: I have no objection to adding it and putting the amendment into its final form. If that makes it easier for the Minister to embrace the amendment, we would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u176	I think that would be wise, because in situations where there would be very little SGEI ownership at the moment, for a few years you would only have to engage in SGEI activities. That is why this addition would immediately give me a positive opinion on this amendment. This means that I will continue to respond to Mrs Karabulut's amendment, which may have been modified, but that we cannot always come up with another solemn end at the end of a useful and pleasant evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-35.u177	We will be voting on the motions, amendments and the legislative proposal tabled next Thursday. I would like to thank the Minister, his supporting officials, the people in the public gallery and those who have followed this debate on the Internet.
