ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House. I give the floor to Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is here today to get the bill on the FK passed. We are here today to give her consideration, to withdraw the proposal, or at least to retain it. This proposal is not sensible in substance. Besides, the timing isn't wise. Let me explain why on the basis of five points. Firstly, this proposal condemns all participants to an increasingly nominal pension, young and old. As was explained to us at the hearing, this proposal is a step towards a lower pension for all generations. It hinders funds in creating returns. By doing so, the funds are hindering their core task: to pay a good pension to all participants, young and old. Please understand: we are in favour of prudent, prudent and prudent investment policies. However, this proposal is a build-up of caution. The irony is that it offers nothing more than false certainty, while it has negative consequences in the meantime. This is true for the short term, but also potentially for the long term. This proposal indirectly undermines the second pillar in its present form, as the Whiteveen proposals have already done. That is why the Dutch will increasingly ask themselves the question: why should I continue to participate in such a pension system? Moreover, this proposal is like a corset. It is a corset that all pension funds are measured.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u3	I'm not normally someone who interrupts a colleague directly into his first sentences. Unless there is further justification, I would like to point out that this proposal for the FTC would affect our pension system and pension security precisely in that second pillar. Mr Hoekstra should explain this in more detail. 'Cause I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u4	Does Mr Thissen want me to do so now, or can he exercise some patience for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u5	If Mr Hoekstra's introduction was a synopsis of the rest of the story, I can wait and see. If I miss this point, I will say to my colleague that I will return to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u6	I have no doubt about that. By the way, Mr Thissen failed himself when he said that he never interrupts in the first few minutes, but he will agree with me. I had just begun to say that this proposal is like a corset that all pension funds are measured. That happens regardless of what's going on with their spines. Regardless of the question as to how they judge their backbone. Regardless of what views their participants have on what acceptable risks are and what is not. And, not unimportantly, no matter where the country is in the economic cycle. Meanwhile, the cabinet speaks with great optimism about stable indexing. I admit that's an attractive frame. Actually, there's only one problem with it. That's why it doesn't add up. Resistant indexing is what the Cabinet suggests permanent non-indexation is what workers and pensioners will reap. Secondly, the Secretary of State has repeatedly been called upon to come up with a balanced perspective on the future of pensions, by almost all the political groups here. This also applies to the political groups which are not present here, I would add immediately. We are further on from various far-reaching legislative proposals. Yet that perspective is still lacking. However, the Secretary of State has now begun social dialogue. With that, she was, if I may say so, on the late side. At the same time, it is good that it has at least started that dialogue. I hope and expect, quite frankly, that this will mean that the cabinet will eventually come up with a full-term perspective on the future of our pensions. However, that perspective is not yet available to me. With that perspective, it can still go all the way. However, the Secretary of State chooses to cross the social dialogue. Before this dialogue has produced any concrete results, we need a new ftk. The arrival of this new ftk is apparently so crucial, so urgent and so urgent that it is not only the pension dialogue that needs to be crossed, but also that the First Chamber has to deal with this proposal before the end of the year. It remains unclear as to why. Third. If you're still striving for more certainty, don't do it this way. Those who really believe in even higher buffers, in an even more stringent policy and in even more certainty must make technically sensible choices. In particular, with regard to the UFR, the cabinet has not given sufficient thought to this issue. For those few listeners in the public gallery who have not yet given up their courage: the UFR, the so-called Ultimate Forward Rate, is the so important accounting rate for pension funds. During the hearing, we were reminded that IFRS's international accounting rules are such that the accounting rates that pension funds are allowed to apply are generally higher than those of insurers. But not in the Netherlands. This is extremely unfortunate for the Dutch pension funds and therefore also for the Dutch participants. That does not stop the misery in terms of technology. The way in which the UFR is threatened by the cabinet is still somewhat chaotic. If this law continues, pension funds will have three different UFRs on their hands within six months: firstly, the current one, secondly, the UFR which will apply from 1 January and thirdly, the European one, which is probably already there in mid-March. That seems undesirable to the CDA group. I'd like to hear if the Secretary of State shares that perspective. If so, can and will it undertake here to ask DNB to allow funds to continue to use the current UFR at least until the European UFR arrives? That sounds technical, but it is more than a technical exercise. It saves in the coverage of the funds, and thus in the wallet of the participants. Fourthly, the recent CPB calculations give cause for additional concern about this proposal. Let me get one thing out of you. It was initially suggested that the younger generations would benefit from this proposal. Now the CDA is not only there for old, nor exclusively for young. We are there for all generations and we also believe that there should be a balance between the lusts and burdens of those generations. We also think you should invest in the here and now in the long term. With the initial calculation of the cabinet in hand, we were therefore very concerned on the one hand about the position of pensioners, but on the other hand it seemed that there was the beginning of good news for young people. With the latest calculations and reflections of the CPB, this does not leave much left. In the same scenario, new participants are now declining by 0.1% in the case of reduction of their premiums on the basis of return, while they have improved by 4.5% in previous calculations. And in the medial scenario, the pension result of the 25-year-old, the 50-year-old and the 70-year-old gets lower. Without this being explained so far, the last effect is written on the conto of the Witteveen Act proposal. Anyway, the suggested good news for the young has disappeared like snow before the sun. That is bad news in substance, but frankly it is also a curious course of action. I'm deliberately saying this with great caution. Could it possibly be that the Secretary of State has settled a little? Could it perhaps be that she has lost a bit of weight on the bald blow that this proposal is making? Fifth, the Secretary of State is legally giving himself up on slippery ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u7	May I ask Mr Hoekstra the following question? In a model calculation of a modelled fund, the generational effects are read which are initially interpreted as beneficial and in second instance as less favourable. You're analyzing them now. Is it possible that this whole generational discussion needs to be related to that analysis? Shouldn't there be too great a conclusion about the value of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u8	I think Mr Backer is going to hit the nail on the head. It is precisely my objection to the initial presentation that the proposal for the younger generation was not so bad. I think there are two aspects. As I listen to Mr Backer, he will agree with me. First of all, you can discuss with each of the calculations whether the younger generation or the older generation is getting ahead of it or getting worse. Apparently, there's a lot of volatility in the system. Secondly, the generational resilience is at all a relative discussion of the much greater volatility we encounter in indexation or coverage. I think we agree. My objection lies with the initial observation by some that this proposal for the younger generation was good news. I don't think it ever was.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u9	Then we agree on its relativisation. I shall come back to that later, but in my view this should not dominate the debate, because that is what we are all going to give here an exegesis of the CPB programme and we are not trained for. Some do, but not everyone does. I see that Mr Reuten is not here. He's trained for it, but I'm certainly not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u10	I may have more feeling with the word 'exegese' than Mr Backer, but I have devoted one of the five points to this. That is 20%, and even Mr Backer must be able to bear that. We would have stayed at the legal slippery ice. The Secretary of State did test the law against the ECHR, but not against the EU Charter. It initially explained to the First Chamber that it did not consider it necessary to review this Charter at all. She didn't think it was necessary because "it can't be established whether pension funds can go to court because of expropriation." Then, if I understood correctly, she looked at it, but without going into what is in the Charter on Property. That is interesting, because where, on the one hand, the Secretary of State expects excessive caution from the funds, she is, on the other hand, quite willing to take a more legal gamble. So let me tell the Secretary of State a secret. Not all Dutch think this bill is a good plan. Dozens of speakers have been knocking down the door here in the last few weeks. They did not do so because they believe that the cabinet is on the right track with this proposal. Hundreds of Dutch people offered us a petition last week. They also did not do so because they believe that the cabinet is on the right track with this proposal. I do not exaggerate when I say that thousands of Dutch have written a letter to the Senate about this proposal. They didn't do that either because they think the cabinet is on the right track with this bill. That is why it does not seem imaginary to me that one of them decides to bring a lawsuit. Now, of course, it is the right of the Secretary of State to say that this is not a problem, because the assessment of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet is that such a lawsuit is completely unopposed. That is of course her right, but then it is important that she says this to us today. If not, the Dutch State is at significant risk and the Secretary of State has a fifth good reason to consider the proposal further. Is this proposal all bad and bad? Not everything. The choice of a coverage rate based on a 12-monthly average is a good idea. The annual update of the recovery plan is also a good idea. For something like a feasibility test, in an attempt to improve risk awareness, there is also something to say. At the same time, we note that the benefits of the proposal are disproportionate to the disadvantages. It shouldn't be about prestige today. It shouldn't be about coalition coercion today. It shouldn't be about the special turn that VVD and D66 have made over the past week. Instead, we should look at the content. If we do that, we will see that this proposal makes a good pension more difficult, not easier. For all generations, for young and old, and that is extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u11	The predictive value of Mr Hoekstra's words will be known tomorrow after the vote. Apparently, he knows something and immediately calls it a "turn." Written preparations have normally been exchanged for the plenary debate on the advantages and disadvantages of a proposal. Then groups can change their opinions or learn things. After all, the questions are not asked for nothing. I listen to Mr Hoekstra and I thought it was all trouble and torment. He has been critical of the proposal from the outset. Apparently, there hasn't been any change in his mind either. Until the end of the argument. There I see a number of bright spots. Would it be conceivable that a number of points of light should be added, which means that the balance for the CDA group will go to the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u12	Mr Backer is actually making two points. The first is that he will wait for the debate and then come to a final judgment on the bill. That is, of course, correct in itself. However, what we have experienced in the last two or three committee meetings is difficult to classify as a turn. I believe that Mr Backer has also said the words 'we are heading for the next Witteveen', which does not show great enthusiasm for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u13	Is it customary to report from committee meetings in plenary?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u14	I think those meetings are public.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u15	But then Mr Hoekstra has to quote exactly. I said: 'It is wise that we prepare this well and do another round of questions, so that we do not have a discussion like the first time at the White Fen framework'. Mr Hoekstra must quote correctly, because this is a very different meaning. The verdict was about the diligence of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u16	I will look again at Mr Backer's quote in a moment. I will never quote what Mr Backer says to me one-on-one or to anyone else, but I do not think it is a problem to quote from a public committee meeting. I cannot help but note that at last Tuesday's committee meeting we saw that some groups, including those of Mr Backer, had great hesitation about both the content and the deadline. Seven days later, however, they took a completely different view, without any new facts. I assume that Mr Backer can imagine that my group and others have seen this as highly remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u17	I'm not going to prosecute this. I will speak later and then Mr Hoekstra will hear that I still have a large number of critical questions. Last week, I witnessed the debate with Minister Schippers where MP Flierman spent twelve hours in the First Chamber with all sorts of interruptions and questions, while the newspaper said he would vote against the bill. It concerned Article 13 on the free choice of doctors. Is that what we're going through today? Is there any chance that the CDA will take a positive view of the proposal, or has it been resolved in advance? In that case, we can have a much shorter discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u18	I am pleased that Mr Backer has listened carefully to Mr Flierman. However, I did not measure whether that was actually 12 hours. We are always open to the debate, but I personally do not consider the chance that the Secretary of State will meet us on each of the five points I have mentioned. If she did, we would, of course, take a serious look at it. I almost came to a conclusion. I had noticed that it is extremely regrettable that this proposal is mainly bad news. That is why we call on the Secretary of State, as I say to Mr Backer, to put this proposal in her bag as it stands, to put it on the shelf at home and to allow it to ripen quietly there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands may have a pension system that meets international admiration, but our system also needs regular maintenance. That moment seems to be coming again now. The economic crisis has shown that substantial financial shocks are difficult to absorb by the current system. These shocks are compounded by the increasing life expectancy and the further ageing of pension fund members. The Goldwaard Committee and the Frijns Committee have devoted valuable analyses to this. The new FTK makes explicit use of the work of both committees, and that is good. The second pillar of the pension, also in the opinion of the Christian Union Group, is to be thoroughly renovated. It is clear that the economic crisis has also taken its toll in the pension file: declining investment results, structurally low interest rates and problematic levels of fund coverage. Indexation was omitted, pension contributions went up and stamp became reality. The conclusion must be that our pension system has not been able to cope with abrupt macro-financial shocks. The national pension fund may be well-stocked with over EUR 1,000 billion, but unexpected developments can cause considerable damage in absolute terms. In short, our pension system is also vulnerable. Unlike the CDA Group, the Christian Union Group broadly agrees with the problem analysis of this bill. We need to better equip the financial rules for pension funds for sudden and drastic exogenous changes, for the volatility of financial markets. We need to better align the pension building when it comes to abrupt financial yo-yo movements. The financial review framework is the policy vehicle in which these rules are laid down. The cabinet explicitly opts for an evolutionary perspective on this new ftk. Mr Hoekstra actually indicated that. Certainly, it is different from the current framework, but there is no revolutionary trend break. The proposal remains within the existing framework of the nominal pension contract, as established by the Council of State. Has this been a deliberate choice of the cabinet? Have further options been considered and, if so, why have they been abandoned? The evolutionary approach is also reflected in the fact that the issue of the average premium is not addressed. Is this sensitive issue on the Cabinet agenda? Will the Secretary of State perhaps return to this issue after the national pension debate? My group is very interested in this. An important pillar of this bill is that pension funds need to build more buffers as reserves for bad times. That's a good biblical principle. Joseph made sure that the grain barns in the years of abundance were well filled as a reserve for the lean years. The new financial review framework lays down rules on when and how buffers for indexation may be used. The threshold is high with a coverage rate of 110%. Indexing must, however, be future-proof, since young people's pensions must not be put at risk. On the other hand, pension rebates can be distributed over ten years. As a result, there will be less sudden discounts. And that's in favour of pensioners again. It is good that this is based on a policy coverage rate, or a rolling 12-month average of current coverage rates. I thought Mr. Hoekstra endorsed that, too. This also offers more stability. The valuation of pension liabilities will be based on an adjusted, lower UFR (Ultimate Forward Rate), which should also lead to fewer fluctuations. The level of this is often discussed in circles of pension experts. The UFR Committee has advised on this and the Cabinet has adopted this opinion. There are a few pressing issues here. As things stand at present, there will be a few changes in the UFR regime in the coming years. Probably three times in the next two years. What are the consequences of this on the investment policy of pension funds? Isn't this what's causing greater instability? And that's contrary to the spirit of this bill, isn't it? For my group, this is a big bump. I'm just gonna give this signal. Moreover, is there any more clarity as to how the UFR relates to European solvency requirements? I understand that the European direction has become known on 1 November and that insurers will have to work with the new UFR from February next year. How does the Secretary of State assess the impact of a divergent regime on pension funds and insurers? The new ftk provides for pension funds to make a recovery plan if the fund does not have the required own funds. The plan should indicate how the fund can regain the required assets within a maximum of 10 years. Here, too, there is a distribution period. The required equity capital is raised to almost 27%. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many pension funds are now under this asset requirement? Shorts of claims is an ultimatum remedium, as can be seen from the explanatory memorandum. Can the Secretary of State clarify in operational terms when this last resort comes into sight? What guarantees are there that this is indeed an ultimate choice? Then I come to the recovery plan myself. The texts before us are not very clear on this point. Much will be laid down in later and lower regulations. Can the Secretary of State outline what the basic ingredients of this recovery plan will be and exactly how supervision by DNB has been invested? Is there going to be a uniform format to which all the funds must stick? The Christian Union Group has consistently taken the position in the pension debate that the interests of older and younger generations must be balanced. Intergenerational solidarity is an important asset and should be the basis of a sustainable pension system. The proposal before us is also weighted by my group on this point. The CPB's accounting figures show that the bill is reasonably in order on this point. The generational effects of the tightening of the ftk are, on balance, limited. The new system of the recovery plan reduces the risk of substantial reductions for the current generation of pensioners. Indeed, setbacks may be spread over a longer period of time. Younger generations benefit from the fact that only from a coverage rate of 110% can they be indexed. Older generations therefore receive less rapid indexing or catching up indexing. Additional recalculations of alternative policies, done at the request of the CDA Group in the First and Second Chambers, including the full deployment of capital surplus for the overtaking indexing, lowering the threshold for sustainable indexation to 105% and non-adjusting the UFR, do show generational effects. However, I did not hear Mr Hoekstra just now. While the benefit for pensioners is increasing, the net benefit for younger generations is becoming negative. My group is also pleased that the House of Representatives has almost unanimously adopted an amendment by the Christian Union which provides more freedom of movement for funds at higher levels of coverage to compensate for missed indexation or discounts. That's a good signal to our pensioners. There are a lot of issues that are further developed through later legislation. These are crucial elements of the law. I mention the recovery plan only if the required own funds are below the mark, the feasibility test on the expected pension result and the prudent person principle. Now there may be good reasons for this, but at the same time this is a burden on our overall assessment of this bill. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State what her considerations were and what timetable we should take into account. This is, of course, also an important issue for pension funds themselves. I come to two crucial questions for my group about the process of revising our pension system. In recent years, we have been meddling intensively in this House with this review. Several legislative proposals were reviewed, including the increase in the AOW age, the tightening of governance requirements to the funds and the updating of the Witteveen framework. We are also awaiting the SER opinion on a sustainable pension system and there is an accelerated increase in the AOW age. A national pension dialogue is also taking place. This will also result in new legislation. All this together means that the pension board is overcrowded. This leads to the necessary unrest and coordination. Many citizens, as we experience, no longer see the pension forest through the legislative trees. A sharp and decisive process direction is needed to properly link the various legislative proposals and to correct the underlying story of a future-proof and intergenerational just pension system. Can the Secretary of State share with us exactly how the cabinet has invested this process and how the various legislative proposals relate to each other in terms of content but also simply operationally? Is the policy on this essential issue in order? My group has difficulty with the whole legislative process ending with a vision of a future-proof pension and not starting with it. That's the wrong order, isn't it? Does the Secretary of State at all expect this comprehensive pension vision to come into parliamentary consideration for this cabinet period? The Christian Union Group attaches care but also clarity. We therefore urge the cabinet to act as a matter of urgency. What kind of planning is the Secretary of State working with now? The second question concerns communication. Good retirement provision is of course important for every Dutchman. It's a provision for a life stage in which you don't want to be tormented by financial concerns. This means that changes in the pension system must be clearly communicated to citizens. The larger pension story about retirement ambitions, collectivity and solidarity between old and young must be guiding in this, also in order to close the gap in expectations. In recent days, it has been remarkable how important the role of psychology is in the pension debate. Ultimately, it is about the right balance between retirement ambitions and the certainty that we can live up to these ambitions. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State what its policy is on this issue and what resources are being allocated to it. Of course, pension funds themselves have responsibility for this. Does my group understand that separate legislation is envisaged in the field of communication? If so, what should we imagine? I'm closing up. The Christian Union Group agrees with the diagnosis of this bill that demographic and financial developments should lead to a tightening of the FTC, to the spread of abrupt shocks in our pension system and to better absorption of windfalls and setbacks. There is no evaluation clause in the bill. Given the great importance of the new rules for pension funds, for a good pension for the current and future generations of pensioners and for intergenerational justice, my group calls for a sound and comprehensive evaluation of this bill. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do so? Financial supervision remains required in the pension file. That much is clear. However, the bill raises a number of fundamental questions for the members of the Christian Union Group. These relate both to the content of the legislative proposal and to the overall procedure. We look forward to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u20	I have two questions for Mr Ester. I just heard him say that the national pension fund contains over 1,000 billion. Does he know the real number right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u21	Would you like to take my exam? You may, but I have a feeling you know the number yourself. Tell me quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u22	You should have known that, because it was communicated by Mr Sluimers at the expert meeting on 18 November. It's 1,362 billion. My second question is: do you know what it was seven years ago, before the crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u23	I'm not taking exams here. I'm taking exams in my normal life. I'm not going to submit to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u24	No, that doesn't have anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u25	Shall I tell you a conclusion that's much more interesting? It's not about how much is in the pot. That pot is well filled. That pot may never have been so well-stocked. At the same time, the claims to that pot have never been so great. So you always have to see it in conjunction with each other. You have to look not only at one side of the balance, but also at the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u26	No, Mr. Ester. You can't get away that easily. You don't know the facts. If, in seven years' time, capital has increased from 727 billion to 1,361 billion, there is no question of pension funds being in difficulty or not being able to index. You have drawn from biblical history by saying: in the fat years there is spared for the lean years. But in the fat years there was also eaten.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. Tonight and tomorrow evening we are debating an important and apparently very urgent subject until late, perhaps even very late. It is very urgent, because after the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment did not see this urgency two weeks ago and wanted to put careful treatment first, according to the SP Group, the government was right to do everything behind the scenes to convince a majority in this Chamber that this bill had to pass through this Chamber before Christmas. It is so urgent that the discussion of the budget of the Court of Justice should give way. We need to move quickly on to a proposal that will lead to a reduction in the purchasing power of pensions for current and many generations of future pensioners. This is what this debate is about: according to all the experts, the material consequences of the adjustments to the financial review framework for pension funds mean that the supplementary pension of everyone who is now retired and of everyone who is now working suffers from a large indexing disadvantage. This proposal is far too important for us to take a look at. It is complicated and tough, but with great consequences for the vast majority of Dutch people. In the Netherlands, about 90% of workers have a supplementary collective pension. That makes our pension system so beautiful and special, about which later more. But that doesn't mean that every retired person is sitting on roses. Some pensioners have not seen full indexing for ten years and have therefore fallen significantly in purchasing power. I have seen calculations of pensioners who had to surrender 17% of purchasing power in ten years. The indexing disadvantage of our largest pension fund, the ABP, is over 9%. That of the PFZW, the second pension fund, is over 12%. On average, the indexing deficit is already 13% across all pension funds. But instead of a cabinet proposal on how to close this gap, we have a proposal that will further increase the indexing gap. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why this indexing gap is not a priority of this cabinet. Doesn't the Secretary of State see this problem? For a person with an ABP pension, this gap was on average €77 per month at the beginning of this year. In the meantime, it has also been announced for next year that there is again no money for indexation. For most other pension funds, the percentage loss is even greater, although it is often of a smaller supplementary pension. Remember that the average supplementary pension in the Netherlands does not exceed €600 to €700. If the CPB then predicts that government policy will result in someone with an average supplementary pension returning "a few tens" in a median scenario, you can imagine that this is not good in the country. "First Chamber: Save our purchasing power!" That was the message from an advertising campaign of the FNV. It is not often that hundreds of people come to the First Chamber to give us a petition, that thousands of people approach us directly through petitions, letters or e-mails, and that organizations with a number of millions of members are so compellingly appealing to us to amend or otherwise reject a bill on essential points. This weekend, the joint umbrella of elderly organisations and pensioners' associations, CSO, KNVG and NVOG, made a final and urgent appeal to us to reject this bill. Because an objective assessment of quality, care and feasibility should almost inevitably lead to this! The Secretary of State suggests in the note following the report that the core of this proposal for adaptation of the FK, namely the choice of a single nominal framework, would be in line with the joint declaration of the Foundation of Labour, the Pension Federation, FNV Jong, CNV Jongen, CSO, ANBO, KNVG and FNV Seniors. And that again suggests that there would be a very broad support for this proposal. But all these organizations have fallen over the Secretary of State in the last few months or so. I have just quoted a number of these organisations from the unmistakeable criticism of their plans. The first suggestion that the proposal would be in line with their joint statement is therefore contested by them in substance and the second suggestion of support sounds after all the letters, petitions and visits we have received as spokesmen and the experts we have heard almost ridiculous. The dialogue with the pension field is therefore strongly contradicted from the field. The many representatives from the field I have spoken to prepare for this debate were often able to make their point, but nobody really feels seriously heard. Pensioners' organisations speak in this connection of the gap between government on the one hand and pension field on the other. A gap in confidence in our pension system which is only deepened by this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u28	I was just chewing on what Mr Elzinga said about the indexing gap that will arise with this new ftk. Suppose we do not adopt this financial review framework, this new proposal, and we could continue with the current ftk. Does Mr Elzinga think that the indexing gap could be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u29	It is reasonable and even likely that a number of funds would not index below the current figure this year. It is even possible that a number of funds should be reduced at the present time. However, within the current ftk, funds can move faster to indexing and, especially when things get better, they can move much more towards catching up. This is virtually impossible in the new system for many generations to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u30	In other words, the SP spokesperson also says that there is no causal link between the new proposal on the FTC and the widening or stabilising the indexing gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u31	No, you're listening to me wrong. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u32	I understand that from what you said, but I'm sure you'll be able to explain it better yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u33	I said that under the current system it is possible not to index again, but that there can be indexing earlier and there can also be earlier catching-up indexing. This means that with the new ftk the indexing gap continues, deeper and longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u34	On the other hand, in the new ftk pension funds will have ten years to recover if they come under the cover plan. Now it has to be done in three years. Thus, with the current FK, the beneficiaries, and possibly also those who pay contributions each month, face either higher contributions to finance the recovery or lower pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u35	I will come back to a more substantive assessment of the whole bill. I will also mention a number of positive points, which are indeed also mentioned. Why, Chairman? After all, how many times have we heard that we would have the most beautiful pension system in the world? We should also be lucky to have a system consisting of a mix of pay-as-you-go and cover-as-you-go system. By saving so much collectively for old age, we are less vulnerable to ageing than a country like France, where pensions are mainly based on the pay-as-you-go system. And because we are not only dependent on savings, we were less vulnerable in the financial crisis than countries with only savings. But the financial crisis has also left traces here. Pension funds also initially saw capital evaporate in this crisis. And after discussions about stricter supervision and stricter rules for banks, stricter rules for insurers and pension funds also followed. This, and the ageing population, has sparked the debate on the future of our pension system. And although the Secretary of State kicked off a broad, more fundamental social debate on the future of the Dutch pension system earlier this year, this Secretary of State has already made ambitious changes to the pension rules. And there are consequences. The title "best pension system in the world" is partly due to the Global Pension Index of consultancy Mercer, which makes a ranking every year after competition. In 2012, for the first time, Denmark expelled us from this ranking. And this year we've been driven out of second place by Australia. The extent to which our pensions provide a living minimum income is lower than last year. According to Mercer, Danish pensions are better financed, they have higher levels of coverage, they are spread out and they better provide a living income. I would like to ask the Secretary of State for her ambition: does she want the Netherlands to be at the top of this ranking soon? The Secretary of State also acknowledges that our system has proved its worth in recent years. Although the funds had to cope with significant losses during the financial crisis in 2008, the combined capital of pension funds is greater than ever. From 800 billion before the crisis, it has grown to over 1,300 billion. However, according to the Secretary of State, the financial crisis has also shown that the way in which the financial situation of pension funds is monitored, the financial review framework, is flawed. As an important shortcoming of the current ftk it is mentioned that the influence of interest rates on the measurement moment can lead to huge results in the coverage levels. If low levels of cover had to be dealt with quickly, this could lead to a substantial reduction caused by what may only be temporary unrest on the financial markets. Thus, the Secretary of State acknowledges the high interest sensitivity of the ftk to determine the level of cover. At the same time, the Secretary of State also recognises that it is necessary for a good pension to be indexed. In several places in the explanatory memorandum on and in the legal history of this proposal, the indexing ambition is underlined once again. Does the Secretary of State therefore consider non-indexing over the past few years to be a problem? In the letter from the Secretary of State of 11 December in response to a further question from my group, she states that the fact that the majority of the funds have been unable to index for a long time is caused by insufficient financial resources. In the meantime, several funds can show a cash flow of direct return that is able to cover the nominal liabilities for the next 20 years, so that no risk is actually taken at all over that period. Does the Secretary of State also see that the direct return on pension fund investments over recent years has remained very constant, despite the crisis? Does it also see that the increase in the PPV, the provision of pension liabilities, and consequently a decrease in the coverage and buffers, is a direct consequence of the fall in the interest rate term structure (RTS)? The Secretary of State must also acknowledge that the RTS has no relationship with the net return on investment, but that the RTS is mainly determined by the ECB's monetary policy. In my view, therefore, the statement that funds do not have sufficient resources to index should be qualified as 'under the applicable accounting rules'. That is precisely where the problem lies, and so a revision of the financial review framework is a very good time to rectify it. I believe that we still have a beautiful system in which it is worth maintaining and strengthening confidence. The government acknowledges that it has proved its worth in the last difficult period. It is still the second-best system in the world, and we also know what we can do to improve the system: to provide higher levels of coverage with a wider scope and to ensure a better living income from pensions, and thus a more viable indexation ambition. So yes, there is something to improve: we can have the ambition to be number one again on the ranking list and we should certainly show the ambition to catch up with the now substantial indexing lag. If we were to discuss a proposal that would indeed improve our pension system according to these criteria, I would be happy to help speed up the adoption of the legislative proposal, but not even in a hurry. For the government, the proposal that is now before us seems to have a very high degree of urgency. Last weekend, in an earlier interrupting debate, we discussed this issue with a number of spokesmen separately in order to underline this urgency. As far as I can tell, these were the spokesmen and possibly other members of the political groups who supported this proposal in the House of Representatives. What I object to is the sharing of arguments that have not been shared with the rest of the Chamber. Does the Secretary of State understand that I find that objectionable? Why, if the Secretary of State clearly considers these arguments to be important enough to bring them to the attention of some people, are arguments not shared with the Chamber but only with a selection of spokesmen? Let me mention a striking point, to illustrate my surprise, and I quote: On the basis of the legislative proposal, the ABP has set the contribution rate for 2015 at 19,6. On the basis of the current ftk, the premium should rise to 25.0% (crude estimate). This means roughly 2 billion more premium, a substantial noose for the budget. End of quote. I find this financial threat all the more striking because neither in the reply nor in the legal process to date any word has been publicly devoted to the short-term financial interest that the government itself has in this legislative proposal! Did the Secretary of State not consider it relevant to include this aspect in the public debate? And why not? Any proposal which has a budgetary impact will normally explain the impact on the EMU balance, but not a word in this case. Also not a word about the long-term impact on public finances, as this short-term budgetary gain leads to lower pensions in the long term through lower premiums and thus less tax revenues on deferred wages. It's raising money, reducing government debt by saving our pension fund. Surely the Secretary of State will see that, won't he? I'd still like a substantive response. I'd rather hear the cabinet's motivation late than never. I shall now confine myself to a brief examination of the main objections to the legislative proposal. But honesty also commands me to say that the proposal also contains a number of improvements for the ftk. Profit is the ability to deal with financial setbacks spread over time, and thus more evenly. It is also positive that investment policy can be reviewed by the fund, although the possibility of doing so is still somewhat too limited. Profit is also working with a 12-month rolling average for policy coverage rather than day rates. The new recovery plan system also contains a number of positive elements. The most important problem I have with the ftk is the indexing policy. More precisely, I have a lot of problems with the indexing policy. The first problem is broader than just the indexing policy, but it is the most worrying one. The FTK nails down the policy of pension funds unnecessarily and unwelcomely. While we were discussing a legislative proposal to strengthen pension fund management and the supervision of these boards last year, the boards have almost nothing left to run. They have the freedom to develop a long-term investment policy, as long as there is no risk involved. The drives are free to fill in an indexing ambition, for which this ftk no longer offers any space. They have the freedom to pursue a premium policy, as long as the premium is reduced. The indexing ambition is mainly limited by the influence of the RTS on the coverage rate and buffers. What exactly is the argument for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u36	I am listening with a great deal of attention to the story of Mr Elzinga. He is very committed to the current beneficiaries who have not seen their promised fixed-value pension indexed for years. I want to challenge him anyway. If you are going to index, what does that mean for the current active and for the younger generation? If Mr Elzinga is in favour of indexation and more possibilities for indexing, what does that mean for the generational balance that we want to pursue in this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u37	I am in favour of pension funds being free to set their own indexing ambition and therefore an investment policy, because one pension fund is not the other. In addition, pension funds in the broad sense have also shown excellent investment returns in the time of the crisis and despite the crisis. They have seen their assets of 800 billion before the crisis, so before it went bad with the funds, rise to over 1300 billion. That's quite an investment return. Many of us and other private investors would be jealous of that. The pension funds are very good at investing. Nevertheless, they are obliged to charge an artificially low interest rate which has nothing to do with the investments, but which comes from the policies of the European Central Bank, because we are suffering from the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u38	But compared to the equity spot of the pension funds together, which owes 1361 billion to Jan Nagel, but I had also read that myself. The margin, the coverage rate, to be able to index in the coming years is therefore very narrow. If I have listened to him correctly, he is opposed to the current proposal for the financial review framework, despite the positive points that it contains, because he is particularly disturbed that this ftk does not allow indexation to take place for the current beneficiaries. But if you're going to index for the current pensioners, it has to be processed somehow. That's really weird, because saving pensions is delayed pay. It would then have to be brought back to the current generation of active people and so young people would increasingly pay the indexation for the current group of pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u39	No: either Mr Thissen has not listened carefully to my contribution so far, or he has not fully understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u40	I'm not ruling out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u41	That's good, Mr. Thissen. Then I'm gonna try to explain it again, because then it makes sense. Let us try just as well to propose the new financial review framework. There was a remarkable agreement between the ten experts, whom we received from the left to the right from this Chamber and which we heard at the meeting we held here a few weeks ago. There was a very broad agreement that the new financial review framework will not only lead to a reduction in pension formation for the current, but also for all generations of current active people, i.e. current working people, because there can be no or no full indexing for ten to twenty years, and then there can be no catch-up index for sixty years. So it affects not only the current pensioners, but also all current workers. Perhaps those who are still to be born, but perhaps also our children who are not yet active, our grandchildren, could benefit from higher buffers and more security. But what we know for the time being is that less uncertainty certainly leads to less. That was the final conclusion of the expert meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u42	Is it true that the benefits amount to around 25 billion a year and that you come close to 500 million with an index of 1.5% to 2%? Is that not a joke given the capital of over 1300 billion in the pot, which Mr Elzinga mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u43	I've got a lot of numbers lined up. But if the figures mentioned by Mr Nagel are correct, then the calculation is correct too, if I have counted very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u44	Perhaps Mr Thissen can confirm it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u45	Through you, President, let us ask the Secretary of State if she can respond to this sum tomorrow and check whether these figures are correct, because I am afraid to say so. In my second objection to the problem of indexing, I asked the Secretary of State what exactly is the argument to determine the indexing ambition mainly on the basis of the RTS. Is it true that calculating a risk-free interest rate for the liabilities stems from the idea that an insurer could take over the VPV? I read that somewhere. I wonder if there could be a crux of truth in that. In any case, I think that the Secretary of State should see with us that the RTS has no relation whatsoever to the prudent, net returns of pension funds. The fourth point is that the inconsistency between, on the one hand, calculating the interest rate curve for the determination of the coverage rate and the buffers and, on the other hand, calculating the indexing possibilities and, on the other hand, calculating the prudent investment result for the premium determination can continue to result in a structural failure to index due to a low level of coverage, while, on the other hand, reducing the cost-covering premium further, as illustrated by the ABP for the coming year. This seems to be deliberately directed towards a situation in which there is still no possibility of indexing in the future. Is that indeed the intention of this bill, I ask the Secretary of State. This inconsistency, similar to the previous argument, also leads to an inconsistency in the premium provision, although the macro-economic importance of countering procyclical premium policies is mentioned, while the macroeconomic consequences of procyclical indexation policies are not yet reflected in any letter. Why do macroeconomic arguments make sense for premium policy but not for indexation policy? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. As a very specific mistake in indexing, which has also been mentioned before, I call the UFR, the Ultimate Forward Rate. I am not saying that, assuming an RTS, it is weird to calculate the hypothetical interest rate in 20 or 25 years' time with an Ultimate Forward Rate, but it is weird to introduce a separate UFR for pensions now. It's already been mentioned. A European UFR for insurers will soon be formally announced, although we already know informally that it may be higher than the Dutch UFR for pensions, which is the opposite world. Does the Secretary of State recognise in this respect that the financial risks faced by insurers are greater than the financial risks incurred by pension funds? Unfortunately, I can continue to mention disadvantages, but these limitations of the indexation ambition alone are expected to lead to a further reduction in the replacement rate by 5 percentage points over ten years. After the introduction of a middle wage pension with many funds, years of not indexing or incomplete up to now and lowering the Witteveen framework, this is the next attack on the real level of our net pension. Syntrus Achmea calculates the combined effect on a downfall of 30% of our net pensions! I would now like to discuss various variants in order to improve the proposal, but if the blunt, short-term savings of 2 billion on premiums is the bottomline, then that constructive co-thinking does not make much sense. I am curious about the positions of other groups, including on this point, and then wait for the answer in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. For a long time, the issue of pensions has been avoided by many media. Too complicated, not really important, we're talking about rich elderly people, they thought. But now, in December 2014, the big switch comes. The broad social resistance was enormous, the entire trade union movement finally and very clearly chose side against government policy and before the present and future pensioners, and even the VVD in the First Chamber fell off the chosen course. Although that was temporary, because there are towers of higher powers, which curb the preached independence of coalition senate fractions once again when they are at risk of becoming too loose. There are many figures and technical explanations. People and the media often flinch for that. The gap with the Hague politics is only increasing. Still, it's not all that complicated. As prices and wages rose in recent years, pensions were kept at zero or, worse still, reduced. In recent years, pensioners have been lagging behind between 10 and 15%. There is no other group in the Netherlands that has done this. During a hearing held in the First Chamber on 18 November 2014, called "expert meeting," the story of the wealthy elderly was thrown into the trash. The representative of the largest pension fund in the Netherlands, ABP, underlined once again that the average pension for this fund is €600 to €700 gross per month. The president of the second pension fund, Welzijn en Zorg, announced that the average pension for this fund is €500 gross per month. Pension manager of the FNV Gijs van Dijk, a 34-year-old man, who spoke on behalf of the three trade unions, had calculated that the nurses and construction workers with an average pension are already getting €1,000 less than they are entitled to. He predicted that this would go up to €2,000 due to government policy. Tough facts that a socially-moved politician, or politician, must make the blood flow under the nails so I, Madam President, would like to inform the Secretary of State through you. I would like to hear from her whether this affects her and whether she believes that the purchasing power of these hard workers should be restored as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u47	Nevertheless, Mr Nagel, I have not heard any of the parties pleading for the maintenance of the current system. You are absolutely right that all those interested parties sitting there, those from science, those from pension funds, and so on, were strongly critical of the new proposal for the FTC. I didn't understand anyone: for God's sake, maintain this old ftk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u48	I have the report with me. I'll look it up and I'll give it to you. Then we will come back to that in the second term, because you are mistaken. Until recently, it seemed as if the trade union movement only stood up for the workers. But the millions of elderly people have been discovered and the policy of PvdA Secretary of State Klijnsma also affects future pensioners. Due to lower pension contributions and non-indexing, future pensioners are building up far too low a pension. Quite outrageous. The FNV has become aware of this under the inspiring leadership of Gijs van Dijk and is therefore now taking tough action. He repeatedly called for a protest demonstration on 2 December 2014 in The Hague: "CANCER NOW!" And that's the point! In particular, the trade union leader said that the cabinet plans were unacceptable. So, Mr Thissen, that is already an answer that you can read back in the report of the hearing. A pension system, in which ten and more years cannot be indexed, is unacceptable. "We want a good retirement for young and old," was his motto. Read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u49	I would like to ask Mr Nagel where this scandalous policy has actually started when he refers to such a strong income decline as he just did. Is that something from the past few months, something that comes in handy with the new ftk, or is it something that has been going on for a long time and has been called up by the crisis? Could he be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u50	Yeah, it's not that complicated. Everyone knows that the applied accounting rate, which is passed on, continues to affect the level of cover, affects artificially low interest rates. But if you look at the real results, which I will be discussing in a moment, at the actual returns, which count in practice, then you will come to very different results. If I may add one sentence to that: if there has been no indexing for years and there has been a reduction, then those people will have to get some air in order to be able to index. In fact, they should be given a chance to catch up. With the new ftk one thing is certain: the next ten years can no longer be indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u51	Could Mr Nagel indicate how long the current interest rate has been in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u52	About as long as people have been begging for it and arguing for it to be changed. Then let me and pass over your head in the most literal sense of the word and, of course, through the President, ask the Secretary of State if a new interest rate will be fixed in Brussels in the coming months. This interest rate is not enforceable. If you add the buffers and lower premiums, then not only the current pensioners, but also the future pensioners will suffer. As a Social Democrat, that must be a thorn in your eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u53	I have one last question. I think I am asking some rather short questions, so perhaps a short answer is enough so that I can ask some more questions. I note with you that the rate of calculation used has actually been going on for a very long time. I would also like to point out with you that the rate of calculation is actually maintained in the narrow legislative proposal before us today, but that it is more average through the level of policy coverage. My point is rather that you are embarrassing about a particular policy, but that is actually a very standing policy. I agree with you, on my own account, that we should talk about the rate of calculation, but I really do want to distance myself from the wording in which you do so, as if the pensioners were affected by deliberate policies, by changes in the rate of calculation. That's just not true, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u54	I note that the current proposals are true of the current pensioners, but also of the future ten years that no other group in society will be affected. That's the fact. The cabinet plans were considered unacceptable by the trade union movement. This is reflected in the report. The facts were brought to the attention of the hearing. The funds are paid for many years with an interest rate of 2% and 2.5%. On the other hand, this year's large fund of Health and Welfare has a return of more than 12%. Over the last 40 years, despite the crisis, the fund had an average return of 8.2% per year. The ABP may make it even sharper. In 9 years, including the crisis, pension funds have achieved a yield of 70% to 80%. However, 10% indexing had to be submitted on average. Their representative, Dick Sluimers, who is in the VVD on the list of candidates for the First Chamber, uncomfortablely laid down the foreign policy through objective figures: "The pension capital in the Netherlands was 727 billion in 2007, based on figures from the CBS and DNB. By the end of 2014, this will have increased to 1,361 billion." That is what Sloemers said, and this is reflected in the report. The tables of DNB do not lie either. In 2013, total premiums amounted to just over 33 billion. Total benefits amounted to just under 26 billion, while direct investment income also amounted to nearly 16 billion. No dog understands why discounts are needed and indexing is made impossible. It is only in its own cabinet interest that my predecessor spoke in detail about this. This is now being done about the backs of the current and future pensioners. Everyone's getting tired of this. The massive resistance is also led by the Anbo Association of Older People, who often chose a moderate attitude in the past. But director Liane den Haan has become very fierce in the pension case. In a letter to this Chamber on 25 November, she wrote that a lower pension structure, combined with the postponement of indexations and the virtually unattainability of both catching-up indexing and "stamping" has disastrous consequences for the pension. The Pension Interests magazine also points to the great pain that elderly people suffer when they also need care and support. The cuts in health care can lead to a fall in purchasing power of almost 5% for these people. The opposition to the cabinet plans is unprecedentedly massive and the leader of this cabinet sees in the polls and perhaps later a corresponding result at State and First Chamber elections curiously enough an encouragement to continue. But often individual cases are more appealing. Like a 93-year-old man who said at a protest meeting, "There's no indexing for another ten years. I'm already looking forward to this happening again when I'm 103." Former Secretary of State Martin van Rooijen, who spoke on behalf of elderly and retired organisations, called the cabinet plans absurd. Also an indication that there were indeed people against it. Many believe that pensioners are being robbed outright. The same applies to future pensioners. By reducing contributions at the same time, reducing contributions in practice, and not indexing, many workers will receive lower pensions in the future. Quite unnecessary and the result of a deliberate policy that is going to hit the weak. Today we are talking about the Financial Review Framework Adjustment Act, which will make indexing impossible over the next ten years or more. Even the VVD participated in making statements by experts at the aforementioned meeting on 18 November, and with verve. Mrs Kneppers said that pension funds are something for the long term, unsolicited and entirely of her own will. She found it very strange that the amendment of the ftk is now being discussed, while we are engaged in a pension dialogue. According to the VVD view, the modification of the ftk should be the final part of a system change and you should have no intermediate steps at all. Everything you change in the short term costs a lot of hassle and a lot of expense was her crystal clear vision. In a glowing speech, Mrs Kneppers further wondered why we are in the process of adapting the financial review framework at all. Probably because it was a bit uncomfortable for her to get so much support for her words, she withdrew her deep reflection on behalf of the VVD a few days later, which means that these wrong measures must now be chased through this Chamber. Several experts have pointed out that the difference between the actual premium and the cost-covering premium is in fact excluded from the fund's own funds. This is a bad thing, because even if the fund is building up additional capital, it should first of all be used to index current and future pensions, not to mention the catching-up of the backlogs that have arisen. According to calculations, the deficit, i.e. the cost-covering premium minus the actual premium, increased to EUR 13.6 billion in the period 2010-2015. In practice, premiums are subsidised with the money that is not paid in current pensions. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that it is irresponsible to make cuts in contributions? After all, not only today's pensioners but also future generations will receive a lower pension due to the failure of the indexation and that for many years. Can the Secretary of State imagine that, in the eyes of many millions, this policy is considered extremely antisocial? What counter-proposal would the State Secretary have made if she had been in the opposition? Does the Secretary of State not see that the important objective of "a good pension is an indexed pension" is completely undermined by this new law? We are calling for an answer to this. We must deal with this legislation unnecessarily in haste; it may have overlooked something. Can the Secretary of State tell us where the new ftk plan states how pension deficits are being overtaken and, above all, what priority it has, so that millions of elderly people will not die without ever having experienced this again? Does the Secretary of State recognise that the chance that older people will ever receive their failed indexing and recovery indexing is many times smaller than for young people? Does the Secretary of State agree with 50PLUS that the CPB's calculations, that pensioners per successive generations are getting richer or have higher incomes, conceal the hard fact that within an equal generation pensioners suffer significantly more loss of purchasing power than workers and active participants? We attach great importance to a clear statement on this matter. Pension money must be spent on pension. These are tens of billions of euros belonging to today's participants and pensioners. The present bill has exposed many drawbacks. The purchasing power of 3.2 million older people is affected and thus our economy is affected by lower consumer spending. All those involved, the trade union movement, the pension federation, the elderly organisations, unanimously complain that this legislation is being implemented without sufficient consultation with those involved. It is said that we have been heard, but there is no consultation. The Secretary of State does indeed have a different interpretation of good consultation, but if so many stakeholders think so, would she not want to listen? Does the Secretary of State not see that the gap between the Hague government and the broad pension field has grown enormously and that, if possible, the extremely low level of confidence in politics is falling further? I'd like a reaction to that. Another point on which the Secretary of State continues to disagree is the risk that the cabinet will run if employees and pensioners take their pension fund to court for expropriation. The lawyer Hans van Meerten, soon Professor of International Pension Law, states that an insufficient review of the European Fundamental Rights Charter has taken place. He considered that the EU Charter would allow any employee or retired person to go to court. He says the government didn't cover that well in advance and that it's bad soup. The adoption of this bill will only strengthen the situation. As we understand it, it's pretty sure there's going to be such a lawsuit. Is the Secretary of State 100% sure that the outcome will agree with her? By the way, it seems that in the Netherlands it is becoming more and more a habit that when politics no longer listens to the people, the judge corrects politics. Apart from possible in this pension case, it happened recently in a case where a couple were wrongly denied care. The seriously damaged petrol pump holders in the border area have also turned to the courts because of the unreasonable government policy. It is typical of how far people's politics have been removed. To sum up, the many proposed measures and regulations, which need to be rushed through unnecessarily today, are unfair and anti-social. They dwindle millions of pensioners and future pensioners, and we sincerely hope that the voters will remember who caused this on 18 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks, the members of this Chamber and especially the spokesperson's pension and financial review framework have once again been confronted with the enormous concerns and unrest among citizens in this country. Many emails and letters came in as witnesses of these concerns and of the fact that this cabinet apparently fails to have a story in the reforms and transitions that offers new and just assurances in the future, a story that says where and that is more, much more than the story that the financial household book of the State must be true. My group is still wondering why the financial spectacles are being so intensively reformed in the social security and security of our country, for the following reasons. By size, the Netherlands is the 135th country in the world and by population size the 64th in line, but with our national income we are already in the 18th place. In terms of competitiveness, we are number 5, in favour of Germany, in favour of the United States. We also occupy a 5th place with our labour productivity. Our employment rate is 77.2%; the 2012 rate is only more than 79.4 in the European Union. The above-mentioned positions have reached the Netherlands, while our country would suffer from public debt, mortgage debt, mortgage interest relief, dismissal protection, child benefit, study funding, care for young people, care for the elderly, the WW, the AOW, supplementary pension schemes and so on. The Netherlands would, as it were, suffer from everything that we should now say goodbye to as soon as possible or which we are now letting go of one change after another. It scares people to death. They then really turn away from what is being conceived in The Hague and poured over them. Then it is all the more necessary for this Chamber to take time to deal with a proposal that causes so much unrest, but also gives rise to all kinds of ghost and fear stories. Introduction comes quickly and this hinders careful treatment in the Upper House. Almost all the groups here in this House feel discontent about this. It is also a lot of technique, it is also very detailed, it is also very beneficial for the supervisory and central role of the Dutch Bank, where you can ask what the governing bodies of the pension funds still have to run. That's the question we're asking you, Secretary of State. Within a year, this will be the second step in the pension system. This, while the country is looking for a perspective on a modern and sustainable pension system, towards a system of individual choices built on solid collectivity and solidarity, less sectorial and employer-designed, with pension funds that manage and invest responsibly, prudently, transparently and smartly within well-defined supervisory frameworks. In the absence of a view of the future system, despite the public debate on the pension system of the future, this bill is again the cause of a wave of anger, uncertainty, concern and protest. Anything related to this bill that is not linked to this bill, let alone caused or strengthened by this new ftk. I would also like to underline Mr Elzinga's passage on the budgetary problem which appears to be an employer for the government if we do not deal with this proposal before 1 January. I wish I'd known before. It is very important for pension participants that the ftk starts from 2015. After all, the new ftk ensures that pension benefits become more balanced and participants are less likely to experience large fluctuations. Thanks to the new ftk, fewer people will be facing a discount next year. In the end, therefore, pensioners are the victims of delay. After all, the financial position of pension funds has been seriously weakened by the crisis, not least because of the financial and economic crisis! Although the value of pension fund assets has increased, the liabilities on the other side have increased even more. The average coverage rate decreased from 145% at the end of 2007 to 90% at the end of 2008. After this, the average coverage rate with horns and bumps has been restored to a level just above 105% at this time. So funds are still on the verge of a shortage of cover, the danger zone for discounts. Once again, pension funds have been in serious difficulties as a result of the crisis. As a result, many funds have not, or hardly have, indexed pensions since 2009. In 2013, as many as 68 pension funds had to make a discount. A total of 2 million participants received a substantial reduction of 6% or 7%. Where pension funds had sufficient capital for an indexed pension before the crisis, this is no longer the case after the crisis. An indexed pension for all generations requires around EUR 200 billion more capital than is currently available. So that is 1,361 billion + 200 billion = 1,561 billion, compared to the promise or expected covered pensions of 1,200 billion. What exactly is the value of current pension assets? Are these the amounts that I have just mentioned and which we have already exchanged in the debate and in the interruptions? I would like to receive an answer, because the technical briefing of the State Secretary's officials showed a great difference from the hearing we had with the parties. The officials said in the briefing that there is 1,000 billion in the pot against 1,200 billion in expectations, while two weeks later in the hearing the figures of 1,361 billion and 1,200 billion in expectations or promises were mentioned. Young and old have suffered a great deal from the effects of the crisis. A stable pension system will benefit both active people who work for their pensions for full-time employment about one day a week and older people who are now receiving pensions. In the view of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, this ftk contributes more to this stability than it does today. GroenLinks considers the new ftk to be an improvement on the existing situation, especially in view of the Christian Union amendment which ensures that indexation can be paid out a little faster than was agreed in the original bill, five instead of ten years. Of course, only if the level of coverage gives rise to this. GroenLinks has also brought in beautiful things, such as making it easier for people to transfer value and the obligation to publish real coverage, which is essential for a careful discussion about our future pension system. Of course, this is just an intermediate solution. How long does the Secretary of State intend to do with this interim solution? The whole pension system must ultimately be put on hold. It is outdated, it no longer meets these times and there is still much to improve. Even with the new ftk, there is still no proper distribution between old and young young people who still pay for the elderly.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, these problems cannot be solved by the ftk. Anyone who claims otherwise speaks lies. This problem requires a whole new system, and that is why it is so good that a future discussion has started at the request of the C3, our most beloved opposition to our pension system. What the union is doing is really a mystery to our group. Also recently with a page-sized advertisement in the Volkskrant: "preserve our purchasing power, vote against new pension rules." However, pension funds, which cannot index, cannot do so unless a new ftk is introduced. They can't do that because the fund is just bad; this is completely independent of the pension rules. I would like to ask the FNV how they feel about the current level of coverage, without investing too frivolously riskyly, to be able to achieve indexing for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u56	I would like to remind Mr Thissen of the interruption debate which I have just heard, and which I thought was clear for Mr Thissen too, that the new ftk, compared with the current ftk, makes it impossible to index for much longer. In addition, there can be much longer no catch-up index. I believe that this is the long-term purchasing power that so many parties in this country have rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u57	As a result of the new supervisory framework rules, pension funds can take much longer to recover if they fall below the coverage level. This recovery must now take place in a relatively short period of time, which means that benefits from current pensioners will even have to be reduced or contributions increased. GroenLinks eventually opts for a recovery programme that can be spread out in ten years' time. The amendment of the Christian Union in the House of Representatives has stated that, if indexation is possible again, a fund that is really above the coverage rate does not have to wait ten years and can choose for five years. Taking that into account, GroenLinks believes that the new ftk proposal provides more stability. The question about the trade union movement remains. I do not know whether the Secretary of State can or will give an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u58	Just a little more time. I think the call in the advertisement was that we should call on the Secretary of State to change the rules. I think that within this new ftk, which includes a number of improvements, we can make a number of proposals to perhaps repair all those disadvantages, which have been pointed out by previous speakers and by Mr Thissen. If we all want to do this, together with the government, we must wait until after the first-term response, we could make a number of constructive proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u59	I'd be happy to accept that invitation. I like to hang out with the SP, especially if that leads to more just income positions for just a few more people in this country. If I have listened to the FNV so far, she wants to restore purchasing power for the elderly. This cannot be achieved with the current level of coverage without the detriment of the current active population, who do not experience a reduction in their contributions, but even an increase in their contributions. Young people and current active people then pay the price for maintaining the purchasing power of current pensioners. We don't choose to do that. We choose a just division between generations. Some funds, and the trade union therefore, are taking advantage of the new system to cover up the fact that the funds are simply bad for it, that this is not sustainable for the future and that the system must be put on hold. In the end, this is also an answer to Mr Elzinga's question. We opt for a truly different, more sustainable and sustainable pension system based on strong collectivity, but also on individual choices, which are more appropriate to the current labour market and to the current position of people in that labour market. At the hearing held in the Lower House, everyone who was present, from CPB to Pension Federation to union, indicated that the new ftk may not be perfect, but certainly an improvement on the existing situation and that they were in favour of introduction, because they described the existing situation as imperfect. At the hearing in the First Chamber, it seemed as if everyone was highly motivated and documented against the new ftk proposal and we were faced with disaster with regard to pensions. As far as I am concerned, this indicates that it has not been possible for this cabinet to gain solid support in and with the main parties through unity of opinion and vision. The question is, by the way, whether this is only up to the cabinet, or also the lack of public courage of parties to take a step forward. There is discontent about the UFR. It is striking that the VVD wants to keep the calculation rate artificially high, that is really "slide an account." The UFR remains a thing, because every value is subjective and fabricated. However, there are many calculations showing that 4.2% is a very high value. In this respect, we agree with the level of 3.9% of the UFR from the legislative proposal. We understand the comparison with insurance companies, but it is not a decisive argument for us to keep the level of funding artificially high and thereby penalise young people compared to older participants. This provides a more balanced distribution of burdens and desires between different stakeholders. Both the setbacks and the windfalls are spread over a wider period. As a result, not only are there to catch up in ten years' time, but also windfalls are not paid directly, as has happened too much in the past. Partly because of that, we're in trouble now. As this proposal is a more balanced distribution of burdens and desires, this proposal is also more balanced between generations. This shows the CPB in the latest documents that have come to us at the request of the CDA and the SP. I say it again: the fact that, in recent years, and in all likelihood, in the years to come, there can be no indexing, has nothing to do with this proposal to adjust the FTC, but everything to do with the financial crisis and the under-funding rate of most pension funds. The purchasing power of pensioners is also dependent not on this bill, but on financial and economic developments over the coming period. I started this contribution with the enormous unrest, concerns and uncertainty of both pension-receiving active and pension-receiving elderly. I said that it does not help that there is so little consensus among the various stakeholders, nor that the cabinet lacks an inspiring and visionary vision of the future of social security, which makes people feel that the guarantees are being thrown out of their feet. The important question is therefore: what are you going to do, what do you have to offer people?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. A good pension is an indexed pension. This applies to pensioners and pensioners, young and old. That's what people want. This must be at the heart of any debate on pensions, even today. That good, indexed pension has been a reality in our country for a long time. Several generations have been able to enjoy this. The Dutch pension system, based on capital cover, is therefore not wrongly ranked internationally as one of the strongest in the world. But since 2008, this system has proved to be much more vulnerable than we thought for a long time. As with the first pillar pension, the AOW, has only responded late to the increase in life expectancy and demographic developments, such as hazing. From this perspective, the funds proved to be able to offer much less certainty about the extent to which there is and is spared for future generations. However, even stronger was the influence of extremely low interest rates, to a large extent due to the conduct of monetary policy. The linking of the discount rate of future liabilities to the so-called 'calculation rate' to this low interest rate sharply reduced the coverage rates of the funds and then continued to be erratic. Initially, it was thought that the turmoil on the financial markets would only be temporary and that it should be avoided that this would lead to disproportionate increases in contributions and reductions in pension benefits. Measures were therefore postponed. However, the deadline for short-term recovery plans for funds under cover was extended from three to five years in 2012. Nevertheless, a number of pension funds have had to make one or more discounts on pension benefits, including very large ones such as the ABP. Indexation has not been the case at all since 2008. Both measures, i.e. reductions as well as non-continuing indexation, have seriously undermined confidence in our pension system. It is striking that the pension sector has been so poorly able to provide an adequate response to the problems that have arisen and to the loss of confidence. I am referring not only to the funds, but also to all the players involved, including employers' organisations, trade unions, various interest groups and advisory bodies, science, government and politics. To this day, we often receive completely contradictory analyses and recommendations, where parties excel in not making explicit assumptions, perceptions and interests that strongly guide their input. We also seem to lack the courage to consistently reason from the central point of view, namely that a good pension is an indexed pension. The new financial review framework that is before us today in our Chamber is exemplary for what I have to say. It is a long way from any retirement ambition, it leaves this to the funds, but, like the old Ftk, it sets such strict rules that pension indexing is in fact made impossible in the shorter term. Then we get a bunch of insights about the impact of the technical provisions of this ftk on the pension of old and young. In my group's view, these rules are not wrong as such. After all, the aim of the adjustments introduced by the new ftk is to make the pension system more stable and to distribute risks more evenly. To this end, it is possible to spread downfalls over a longer period of time and to create higher buffers before indexing. With this proposal, the elderly have the advantage of a greater spread of recovery with too low levels of coverage, so less fast discounts and young people have the advantage of more caution in indexing when things go well, so that there is not enough money in the pension pots later to offer them an indexed pension. In this sense, the proposal is balanced. In addition, the new ftk will include a policy coverage rate based on a 12-month rolling average, which will also contribute to greater stability. We therefore believe that the new system is indeed an improvement on the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u61	I would just like to rewind a few sentences to Mr Postema's statement that young people would have the advantage of not being indexed much now. What generations does Mr. Postema include under "young people"?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u62	It's always very dependent on who you speak. I know plenty of elderly people who feel very young. I don't mean any of you!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u63	In the technical sense, I would like to label anyone who is more than a day in front of his pension as "younger."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u64	But all the calculations show that all current working generations do not yet benefit from the long period of non-indexation that pension funds are now facing as a result of the proposed policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u65	The point I have tried to make here is that over-indexation within the current regime and within the current rules could lead to the elimination of pension pots without enough for young people. The question is rather'something', but here I come directly to the question of whether you want to maintain the system in this way. I started by saying that the ambition should be an indexed pension for old and young. I don't want to have a generational discussion. This means that an indexed pension could be available for both groups. In my opinion there is reason to do so, and that is why I made that point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u66	I want to share that ambition entirely. Let us stand up for an indexed pension for all generations. A number of spokesmen have already tried to make it clear that this is not within reach with the new but also with the current ftk for the long term. Well, then we've got a whole lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u67	I think there is little difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u68	Mr Postema began his speech by saying that a good pension is an indexed pension. He repeated those words later. I had to think about where I had heard them before, but clearly Mr Postema was inspired by Mr Borgdorff van Zorg en Welzijn. That is what he said at the hearing. I wonder whether Mr Postema is also inspired by the following sentence of Mr Borgdorff, namely that the nominal review framework makes this virtually impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u69	I have been inspired by a lot of Dutch people and not by Mr Borgdorff. I would not refer to him in all honesty either. Anyone who thinks about retirement and what that actually is will conclude that there can only be one retirement ambition, and that is an indexed pension. That is how I build up my speech. Frankly and with all due respect to Mr Borgdorff, this is not a statement that I have taken from him, because in my opinion this is very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u70	So you both had the same good thought. However, what does Mr Postema think of Mr Borgdorff's second comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u71	In my introduction, I think I have already been very clear about this. A lot of extras have to be done in relation to the current pension, but also in relation to the new one, before the indexed pension is paid. In my further speech, I will make that point later. We have another task ahead of us. However, a new Ftk, with the improvements mentioned, ignores the major issues we are faced with. They are not so much about the various ingredients that currently prevail in the social dialogue on the future of our pension system, such as the degree of collectivity and solidarity. Those are quite a no-brainer for social democracy. No, of course, much more important is the question of how we are going to make our target, i.e. indexed pensions, a reality. To that question, the new ftk does not yet provide an answer, as I say especially to Mr Hoekstra. The strength of the Dutch pension system lies in the coverage of capital and specifically in the acquisition that a deposit of pension contributions through investment returns in practice leads to an increase in value by an average factor of 5. It is sometimes claimed that this has been a unique constellation over the past three decades, namely that there has been such an investment market that has made these returns possible but will not return them. That seems to me to be wrong. The returns of various funds in recent years alone, which were not easy in macroeconomic terms, already show this. It is therefore of the utmost importance that pension funds continue to have sufficient investment freedom to allow this multiplication of premiums deposited. If we look at the practice of the past few years, a reverse movement seems to be the case. Funds continue to cover themselves against falling interest rates, thus providing nominal certainty, but increasing real ambitions. Moreover, this nominal security is also relative, since the interest rate derivatives used can also work against the funds in the event of rising interest rates: the so-called reverse Vestia threat. What is the situation with regard to the possible consequences of the massive use of interest rate derivatives by pension funds? The Secretary of State said so on the occasion of my colleague Roos Vermeij's motion in the House of Representatives. The same motion also calls on the government to allow funds to adapt their strategic investment policy on the basis of the new ftk. That is a good thing. But were it not necessary to allow funds to periodically adjust their investment policies, for example in the event of strongly changed external circumstances, adjustment of the parameters or future adjustments to the pension contract? We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is prepared to provide the funds with this space. The strength of capital cover is not in nominal collateral, but in real collateral. In that respect, my group considers it a missed opportunity that in 2011 there was no new, real pension contract based on Defended Contribution, while at the same time it must be clear to participants that this is not without risk. Instead, two flavors were offered. These were then exchanged for the one contract that we are actually presented with today's new ftk. Let me say again that this is an improvement on the current situation. What has also been said is that this is not yet the beginning of an answer to our main statement: an indexed pension for current and future pensioners. Is the Secretary of State prepared to resume this task, in consultation with the pension sector and in particular the Labour Foundation? In a way, I agree with Mr Thissen's appeal. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities, as we ask, to come up with a legal basis for a real pension contract? This brings me to the most decisive factor in the valuation of the extent to which the funds have built up sufficient capital to be able to distribute and index whether or not they are able to do so: the accounting rate. The new ftk is not used to replace the discount rate used so far for the valuation of future pension liabilities, i.e. the current interest rate term structure, combined with a lower nominal security than the current 97.5%. This underlines the full nominal character of the current ftk. My group considers this a missed opportunity. The government is completely ignoring the actual returns of pension funds when it does not discuss the composition of the interest rate. The management of these funds can be blamed much, such as allowing too low premium levels, bonus holidays and withdrawals, insufficient response to changing demographic conditions and insufficient communication on future benefits and risks. However, what most of these funds cannot be blamed for is the return on investment. This was generally high to very high, even in the period 2007 to today. The total savings of pension assets grew by 30% during that period. The calculation rate used does not apply to this. Curiously enough, higher interest rates are allowed to determine a cost-covering premium. The Central Planning Bureau says about this ambivalence: "There remains a certain tension between the ambition of many funds to take share and interest rate risk and the required nominal collateral. The use of different discount rates for determining the liabilities, the premium and the sustainable indexation is conceptually less attractive." However, this is not about the aesthetics of the system, but about its effectiveness. Using a calculation rate that is completely separate from actual returns and which in no way refers to it, in combination with a rigid recovery system in case of undercovering, makes our pension system very procyclical. The new ftk is making some progress in this respect, namely by making the recovery plans more compatible, but it ignores the interest rate, which has thus become the well-known "elephant in the room." My group is not in favour of an adjustment of the accounting rate which is completely separate from the underlying pension contract and the parameters used. These aspects should be linked. What we are saying is that both the old and the new ftk are based so much on nominal collateral that the defined ambition, namely the indexed pension, is not met. We therefore advocate the possibility of a fully-fledged real pension contract: a real ambition agreement in which the claims are not hard guarantees but in which they are risky. As a result, they depend less on interest rates and more on the expected return on risk capital titles such as shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u72	I must say that I do not really follow Mr Postema very well. He states that an indexed pension should be a guiding principle. At the same time, he indicated that this was virtually impossible under the new financial review framework. It shall indicate any auctioneer that is not appropriate to that effect. He pointed out the discrepancy between the accounting rate determining the premium and the determination of the obligations. These are all very essential things. I hear him mention that he does not think that the nominal contract that is now before him, which is dressed with a structure of iron collateral, is ideal. He'd rather have a real contract. Do I really hear him say that he thinks it is a missed opportunity that we should suspend this discussion on the new financial review framework until after the pension dialogue? After all, we are talking here about a set-up for a completely new structure for the pension scheme. I hear him say that this new ftk might well be missed at this stage. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u73	Well, that's special. Mr Kok says so many good things about my input, but he then draws a conclusion that he has absolutely not been able to hear. I have been quite explicit in the observation that this new ftk is an improvement over the old one. In the question of effectiveness, we still have a primary test on the objective of the law. If you look at that, the legislator states that more stability and balance is envisaged. This new ftk contributes to this. The point I have tried to make in all honesty and honesty is that it does not yet serve the retirement ambition of indexed pensions. This raises the question of whether we should want to do so. Shouldn't we move directly to a much more diversified landscape or pension contract? Sure. That's exactly the plea I'm making here. I don't necessarily do that by pointing out scapegoats. I have already said at the beginning of my speech that I think the whole sector is quite a part of this. In that respect, I don't see any white knights on horseback. I would very much like us to take the step ahead today, because this has to be done in relation to the old financial review framework. However, I would also very much like to hear from the Secretary of State what her intentions are in terms of the actual improvement that brings that indexed pension closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u74	I still do not hear Mr Postema mention the obvious advantages that would go hand in hand with the new ftk. It really looks like there can't be indexed for twenty or thirty years, and then I don't even talk about post-indexation. This means that non-indexing is a guaranteed decline in purchasing power. How does Mr Postema reconcile that with the principle that all other social security schemes must retain purchasing power? Then why shouldn't that be here or shouldn't be here?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u75	I really distance myself from the idea that with the new ftk there would be such a significant deterioration. I think there's been an improvement. What I would like to go along with is that, while this improvement leads to the desired stability and more intergenerational balance, my group does not believe that it is sufficient to give an impetus to the ambition of the indexed pension. What I would like to call on Mr Kok is to go along with that. To evoke the picture as if our pensions were to fail by accepting the new ftk is a factual inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u76	I would like to hear from Mr Postema who is actually making progress in this new text and when. What groups are those? And how is that intergenerational balance guaranteed in his eyes? If they are not indexed, this applies both to pensioners and to those who do not receive a claim. I don't see that advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u77	That is the right of the PVV Group. I would like to draw Mr Kok's attention to the fact that we have seen quite a bit of a reduction in pension funds over the years. That's something we wouldn't like to see again. If there is already a component that is an improvement in the ftk compared to the old one, that is the connection of the recovery plans. This is better regulated in the new ftk, which is a pretty obvious advantage. The mediating of the policy coverage rate is an advantage that hangs on this ftk. Once again, we would also like to take advantage of this debate to point out the relative nature of an ftk like this and call for further consideration of what is necessary in order to arrive at the indexed pension in the foreseeable future. The Economic and Social Council also makes a similar appeal. In that sense, we are in good company. In its opinion Towards macro-stable real pensions from 2013, the ESC states: "A stable expected return in the real ambition contract tackles the issue of the over-interest sensitivity of our supplementary pension system at its root. It should therefore be considered whether it is possible to determine the expected return on shares in a different way, less interest rate sensitive and more consistent with the way these parameters are and are designed in the different parts of the overall supervisory framework. In doing so, the Council focuses primarily on macro-stability, which is also important. However, it is equally important that the discount rate applied is brought more into line with pension claims in relation to actual returns. Of course, collateral must be built in." I hear the Secretary of State say in advance that we do not want American situations here. No one wants to, but we're there ourselves. These securities can be built in, for example in the form of a ceiling. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is prepared to look again at the calculation rate to be used, the interest rate term structure, from the perspective of macro-stable real pensions. In support of our call, we are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. A related issue is that of the long-term interest rate structure, the Ultimate Forward Rate, for liabilities of 20 years and longer. Although it is not part of the present legislative proposal, the intention to take over the advice of the UFR Committee is undesirable in several respects. Firstly, the method of calculating the proposed new UFR is necessary. Secondly, this leads to adjustment costs which are very expensive if we include the third objection. This is because it is conceivable that the UFR will be adjusted again in the foreseeable future, in line with the interest rate term structure that the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, EIOPA, will adopt in February 2015. We believe that the government is wise not to introduce a new UFR now. We are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. A good pension is an indexed pension. With that statement, I started my input. My group believes that in recent years the pension sector has failed to translate this ambition into one, but if necessary several appropriate pension contracts. In fact, we all have butter on our heads and it is time to take it off and take our responsibility. We owe this to our pension beneficiaries and beneficiaries. This includes the possibility of real pensions, giving the funds scope for a strategic investment policy that is in line with the level of ambition and which seeks an appropriate discount rate for both short and long-term liabilities. It is only in this way that the strength of our capital cover system is being respected, which so many of us have already benefited from. In this sense, my group regards the present proposal as an intermediate step towards a good pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u78	Mr. Chairman. We're all going through this once in a while. You are quietly waiting at a zebra path and a few moments later you are in the middle of a group of yelling school children. The master or teacher looks carefully around and usually there are also a few parents. Sometimes a grandfather or mother walks with him. Very cheerful and united they then cross the zebra path. They're all in the best interests of each other. Excuse me if I come with this metaphor at this late hour. It presents the major issue of the transition to the new pension system. Children give their parents and grandparents a good pension and vice versa. But like any comparison, this one is somewhat flawed, because we were not so united about retirement and we are not at the moment. Having listened to the previous speakers, we also do not agree on the part that should only be maintenance, the ftk. Of course there is cause for concern, anger and gloom. When I listen to colleagues Elzinga, Hoekstra and Nagel, the bigger debate on the revision of the system is gloomy. My group also has serious questions and reservations about the ftk. We hope that they will be answered and de-stressed today. We are all very aware of the difficulty of this exercise. That is why good and constructive discussions in this House are important. In the note following the report, the cabinet mainly reiterates its own views with a number of mantras. I invite the State Secretary to think along and look for the best results. The best result is to maintain a pension system that is one of the best in the world, perhaps the best. That is a great wealth that has been built since 1952. However, it is not always experienced as wealth by those who have been cut for years, especially when they have a small pension. Mr Thissen has already indicated this. But the system is in transition. Important statements have already been made in the Lower House about the future of the system, as in the Van Weyenberg/Dijkgraaf motion. The debate on thezzp pension has finally begun. However, the final picture is not yet clear. That's not helping. Mr Thissen also asked about it. It doesn't mean that everyone is in favour of reform when the final picture is clear, but it doesn't help if it's not clear. The way in which pension funds are managed has recently been adapted. That took about 40 years. The new boards and other bodies have been renewed and DNB and AFM are close to supervision, especially after the financial crisis. The financial review framework sounds technical and neutral. However, it is simply about the rules of the game, which have a major impact on participants' incomes. We're talking coverage and UFRs. In fact, it is a disguise of the real issue: what requirements do we impose on the financial health of funds, and not least, on the long-term sustainability of the system? The ftk is, as it were, the technical-actuarial effect of political choices. We will have to look through all these technical concepts. We do that critically, even if we are suspected of a different attitude. There's some good things. They've already been mentioned tonight. One of the major benefits of the new system is that financial shocks can be better addressed in a rolling recovery plan. The 12-month coverage rate is without doubt an improvement in stability compared to current daily prices. Nevertheless, serious questions remain. Mr Ester would call it pressing questions. It is impossible for me to discuss all the measures of the FTC, but the essence of the debate, according to the D66 Group, is the debate on three questions. First of all... How prudent is wise? Who's the best judge of that? For example, this plays a role in the indexing process. Secondly, to what extent can or should the legislator intervene and what shifts does this entail in the responsibility of those involved? Thirdly, are we not too much or wrong for a change in the pension system that, although slowly, is coming? "Prudent" has multiple meanings. If I were to ask what is "practical," it would probably be said "careful." If you look it up, "practical" is also wisdom, sensible policy and according to Article 135 of the Pension Act: being a good family father. So that is not synonymous with risk-avoidance, because otherwise such returns could never have been achieved. It is always a matter of balancing interests, but not black and white, because you have to think for yourself at the crosswalk or you can cross. The introduction of the rules of the financial review framework should not lead to the requirement of being a good housekeeper being self-conscious in practice. That would, for example, accumulate so many buffers and uneconomic money in the funds that, looking back ex post, it will be said that this was not prudent, but cautious. I will go into this in more detail later. Now I will presort on a possible new pension system. In the previous discussion in committee, I myself referred to this as the 'no regret' question. If we assume that the trend is rather towards a real pension contract, it will in future lead to more indexing rather than less indexing and more often rather than less shortening to more frequent shortening. Mr Postema spoke about this and I agree with him. Participants may take more risk derivatives, but they are also aware of them. That is also the agreement of the contract, if correctly communicated. A solution will then have to be found in the new system where risks increase: all the complexity of property rights, entry and so on. By allowing distributed discounts, this financial review framework is already a bit in line with that. Does the Secretary of State share this? We can justify this, because we believe that it is to a large extent the case. After all, discounts have already been applied and it is also contained in contracts and regulations. I'd like to discuss three more choices here. I'm getting to the first choice. Is it right to disconquer the commitments of the funds in 2014, almost 2015, as a purely nominal claim, as stated in the mandate of the UFR Commission, which will always and under all circumstances be honoured? This is also in line with what has just been said by Mr Postema. We have chosen to regulate the criteria for the assessment of prudence in legislation. I refer to the decision which was sent to us by the Secretary of State and which was presented to the House of Representatives on 24 September. We fit, with the detailing of the decisions, as a senate restraint. The exact price of security is neither mine nor my group. But the marginal review of whether these are the right choices is our job. A number of speakers have already started to do so by raising the debate on the UFR. The choice to allow and maintain 2.5% uncertainty in the financial review framework, in a world in great change and in a pension field in transition, makes me unrealistic as a non-expert. According to the real experts, this choice costs about 5% coverage. From 100% to 105% coverage is not considered unreasonable by them. In doing so, technology runs through the political choice of indexing or not and what to index. In my interpretation, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that it is different, that choice presupposes that participants do not want to accept risk in the current situation. In my opinion, that fits much better with a guaranteed annuity. But does that also fit with a pension fund at this time? That is why experts have called for a risk component to be placed on risk-free interest rates. I refer to an article by Mensonides and Frijns in this spring's ESB. They proposed to impose 0.5% or 0.75% depending on the risk appetite of the participants. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if she's willing to give that thought a chance. I'm not an expert, so I'm not gonna tell you if I should. But why should it not be taken into account in the weighting of the larger discussion? In the new financial review framework, this can be spread out, which may make this idea work better than under the current financial review framework. The possibility of a discount is permitted by law and by regulations. That's what happened. Mr Nagel has just spoken about the EU Charter. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answer. I have also come across in the literature a discussion about the ECHR and ECHR and whether this would not be a matter of taking ownership.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u79	I am always extremely fascinated by the story of Mr Backer. He's always making a big argument. All balls go into the air, very general and very diffuse. It's often a little "stating the obvious." I would like to hear from him what he thinks in concrete terms about this new financial review framework and how it interferes with the forthcoming dialogue. Does he consider the objections of the new financial review framework to be so great that it says: let us skip this? Or are there elements that he really thinks are acceptable? I still don't understand what he's talking about. What is his appreciation of this new financial review framework? Can he give us a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u80	There is always a certain pattern in the exchange of thoughts between Mr Kok and me. He always starts with the opening that it is a far too broad and too broad argument, but every bird sings as it is beaked. Mr Kok will hear from me how I feel about the good and bad aspects of this and where I might want some repairs. In the end, I will come to a final conclusion. Everyone does that in their own way. Why should I draw my final conclusion halfway through my speech on behalf of Mr Kok? I build up my story and if he thinks it's too broad-mouthed...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u81	I may have wrongly interrupted Mr Backer, but I would like to hear the answer to my question in the course of his speech. I suppose I'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u82	I will do my best, but I do not know whether I will be able to satisfy Mr Kok. I was at the transition to those discounts and the possibilities and acceptance of risks. In fact, I would like to raise the question of whether it would be wise for experts to look at this again. I have read that report and we would also be in favour of the diversity of that committee, which is composed of excellent people, but it is not a question of strengthening the committee by including a number of foreign experts in it. After all, it is about financial analyses and they do not have to be typically Dutch. In fact, I would like to say that it is not. It does have a Dutch component in the pension funds sphere, but it does not have to dominate the discussion. In view of these developments and this analysis, and perhaps that is an answer to Mr Kok's question, my group is not in favour of introducing the UFR at the moment, as envisaged. I would, however, like to draw attention to the developments in Europe in the insurance sector, then ask experts to see whether what applies to insurers should also apply to pension funds and whether a different choice should not be made in the broad sense. This has a major impact on the future of the pension and on whether or not it could be indexed in the coming years, for example. I'm gonna go with choice two. The government has a system responsibility under the Pension Act, but that does not mean that the social partners and the participants occupy the other bases of this competition field. That's what the Pension Act says, and that's how it's built up in all these years. In the letter from the cabinet to the Lower House, that division of roles was explained again. That is the letter of 29 August with the title kick-off dialogue phase National Pension Dialogue. I didn't make it up; that's the name of the letter. But does the legislator itself adhere to this division of roles? Several speakers at the hearing, but also on other occasions, observe that the role of the State and the supervisors is moving somewhat, partly because of the content and partly because of the legislative technique of delegation to lower regulation. I take as an example the system of conditional allowances. It is clear that, in the new ftk, the aim was to strike a balance between the spread of shocks and gradual indexation, because of the generational balance. However, qualitative requirements have already been laid down for the decision on surcharges. That might be enough, I thought. And yet, in Article 137 of the Financial Regulation, I say very specifically to Mr Kok and Article 15 of the draft decision, the decision-making area is further reduced for the organs of the Funds. I find it very difficult to find the rule that should be indexed only if permanent surcharges are expected to be possible at the same level in the future. In practice, according to this requirement, this also means that you may provide 1% indexing for every ten coverage points above a coverage rate of 110%. Can a driver who has to decide on the granting of surcharges oversee this? Isn't he the safest way to pay no increases? That brings me to Mr Elzinga's scenario, in which there will no longer be any indexing at all. What then remains of the prudential responsibility of pension management in this respect? I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. We discussed the model calculations of the CPB of the generational effects earlier on the occasion of interruption. I think that is a far too gross outline of the effects and expectations. I do not think it is wise to dominate the discussion with that. It is very different per fund and the pension country is very diverse. In the legislative framework of this dossier, it should be the case that pension boards are addressed to a principle-based standard and not to a rule-based effect. My group is asking the Secretary of State to take a closer look at this. Our concern is that, if we are not careful, Parliament will also be discussing the investment policy of funds, and we will have some sort of "bathroom on the Sprinter"-type discussion. That is not wise in such an important domain with 1,361 billion of invested capital. One intervention provokes the other. There are many examples in the world where governments have been sneaking out of the pot to reduce deficits in the rich budget or to achieve other goals. In our own country, too, I believe, but let me not go into that. We should not want such political interventions, and I cannot imagine that the Secretary of State wants them, but I would like to hear that from her. It also affects the way in which we will legislate in the future. In any event, my group would like to discuss any revision of the decision that is to be taken in this Chamber. I think that is such an important point that I might ask for a ruling on it in the second term. I come to my third point. That is the last choice in the drafting of the legislation. It is also closely linked to the previous point. The complexity and accountability of pension funds can also lead to something else, namely mergers and/or large concentrations of funds or pension administrators. And not because it is in the interests of the participants, but because it is demanded whether it is actually inevitable by compliance requirements. We see that company pension funds do not move from basic choices to defined contributions because of accounting standards. Whether that's good or bad, I'm not about that, but it's not something they decide on the basis that it's better. They decide that from the regulatory point of view. The combination of detailing medium rules and supervision of pension funds can also contribute to risk-avoidance of herd behaviour in the investment policy. This can ultimately turn out to be very negative in the efficiency results. There is a chance that we will reap the bad while pursuing the good. How are we going to prevent us from ticking that off and finding that compliance more important than risk and return? I also refer to a very interesting article by Professor Maatman in the Journal of Pensions. In it, he discusses the way things are going at the Glass Pension Fund. In the FD there was a ruling in which the Nederlandsche Bank..... you would not believe it, but live the rule of law... has been sentenced to compensation because he had gone too far in the supervision and had been corrected in it by the court and the College of Appeal for Business. That said: the interpretation of "practical person" is to the funds themselves. It is an open standard and it should remain so. Let us not tell each other in this debate that this is about a generational conflict. With the image I summoned of the three generations at the zebra path, I've already tried to refute that. The sustainability of the system is at issue. This requires maintenance and that is why this ftk is needed. This offers advantages in a large number of areas with regard to the existing ones. I have come to realize one thing in the discussion and preparation for it. 2013 and 2014 were transitional years. Now there are a number of funds that depend on the Dutch Bank's policy of tolerance in their recovery. That would end with non-entry of the ftk. Then the old rule applies. That is not desirable; we should not want that. This is one of the reasons why I think it is right that we should continue with this now, with the questions I have, for example, about how we shape it and about interest rates. The pension system must be sustainable enough for grandparents, children and grandchildren. The future choices that are urgently needed are very limited, but it is important to start the discussion very quickly. I would like to comment on those grandchildren who, of course, have a great chance of reaching the age of 90-plus, but are often not represented in this debate. That's what I'm trying to do with this metaphor. Although our concerns are central to my input, I would also like to mention that we appreciate the State Secretary's commitment to crossing this minefield, where the people on the other side sometimes say different things than colleagues here and we ultimately have to make a stand-alone judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u83	All the way towards the end Mr.Backer came in conclusion close to the spin that had previously been predicted. Mr. Backer mentioned "if we don't do it." I think that's gonna be his main argument for doing it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u84	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u85	If we don't do it, we'll get the clarity of the old ftk and we shouldn't want that, Mr Backer said. Has he also received the additional arguments from the Secretary of State about the old ftk which would then have to revive, with the premiums and the costs for the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u86	In the time that has come for me, I cannot discuss all the subjects. That's what I said. I would like to mention two issues. The explanatory memorandum to this bill contained five policy conclusions of the cabinet. The first was: no more abrupt discounts. At the old ftk you had to recover in three years. That can be smeared now. The second was to restore investment policy in the longer term and not to make indexing immediately. It wasn't possible with the old ftk. At the new ftk we have a rolling recovery plan. The third wish was more stability, by reducing the influence of daily prices. For this purpose, the policy coverage rate has been introduced. Couldn't do that under the old ftk. The fourth was to prevent volatility of the premium, because the premium does not have to contribute to the recovery, whereas it must now. This could not be done under the old system and in the new one could; a dampening possibility has been introduced, which can also be objected to. In addition, part of the benefit would otherwise have to come from own funds. Fifthly, there is the security measure of 97.5%. I have talked about this and I still have serious doubts about it. Considering everything, I think the other four represent progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u87	That's what I understood to have heard a little bit. A part of what I made myself rather angry about in my first term is that some of the spokesmen had been given additional arguments, especially not to wait until the treatment after 1 January because there would be a risk that the current financial review framework would be fully maintained and that this would have a budgetary consequence for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u88	In any case, the argument of the budgetary consequence has not reached me, which has not been reflected in my considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u89	Thirteen days ago, Mr Backer told me and others: that will not happen this year. He said that with such persuasive force that a companion said to me: well, Mr. Backer, that is a firm one. But in practice it turns out that if you look at his knees, it turns out to be half a meter smaller. I just want to know, also for the voters of D66, how, when there were no new facts, Mr Backer was 100% sure that it should not go through this year and he was convinced of the arguments, including those of the hearing, that it is now suddenly different in his view. Who did he whistle back from, or what happened? I find it incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u90	I understand your question. I would have been worried if I hadn't been interrupted by Mr Nagel, because he always does. I would certainly have been worried if he hadn't asked. Indeed, we have had an exchange of views with each other. It seems to be a custom to report from committee meetings. Fine. I explained why I started thinking about it and why I finally came to a decision. Since when is it that if a bill is tabled here, we discuss it and you say that you are critical of it, you should not change your mind anymore? Then what are the deliberations for? We have "66" in our party name, but that's the founding date. Mr Nagel has "50" in his party name and it is clear which group he stands for. I stand up for all those involved and I may form my opinion on it, no matter what I've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u91	You have not only "66" in your party name, but also the D of "turn door"!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u92	Unbelievable, Mr President, I do not have to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u93	I will try to put it even more nicely than Mr Nagel. I must say, however, that Mr Backer is perhaps a little short of those present at the committee meeting if he pretends to have come from all kinds of new insights. I think most of the attendees had a different impression that has more to do with "his masters voice," but we will not speculate about that here. I would therefore just like to remind Mr Backer that the toilet in the Sprinter motion was also supported by the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u94	That seems to me to be the best proof that it is not 'his masters voice', but that we are making our own assessment in this Chamber, because I will never support such a motion for the reasons I have just given. For the rest, referring also to that revolving door: then this is an open door.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u95	I still have to do the next thing in my life. It is now regularly interrupted with reference to discussions in committee meetings. Commission meetings are procedural meetings, in which we talk openly with each other about matters where there may still be pawns and clamps and on which you want to ask further questions, after which you finally decide together, whether or not with arguments shared by a majority or a minority, to set something up for plenary. That's the value of a committee meeting. To interpret here all the time what someone meant to say at a committee meeting, there is a danger that you will keep your jaws together at the committee meeting and you will only say sec: I think it is enough for plenary. Let us see openness in committee meetings as a great value in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u96	I would like to thank Mr Thissen for this addition. I couldn't have said it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u97	Mr. Chairman. I shall try to do so, and that does not seem difficult to me to be more specific about the new regulation than Mr Backer. I wanted to interrupt him just now, because his answers didn't convince me. Under the motto of "needed maintenance" and the removal of "some bottlenecks," this bill needs to be rushed by the Senate at the late Monday and Tuesday evenings. The urgency of tightening up the rules governing the financial policy of pension funds and introducing them by 2015 is evidently vital, at any rate greater than, as it now appears, the extended treatment of the Top Incomes Act. I think that is a nasty observation. It's easier to grab the large deformed group of pension participants than the big ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u98	I would like to ask Mr Kok if he would just remind us at what point in time this bill has been dealt with by the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u99	You know that better than I probably do. It's only been a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u100	No, that's not so bad. In committee, we have taken quite some time for the written round of questions. You agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u101	Well, I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u102	The point I'm making is that if you just look at the actual treatment time for this current legislative proposal, the image that you're putting up right now, that it's being rushed through, actually doesn't add up, given the time frame we've taken for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u103	I think I should disagree with you. We've had a very short time for this bill. Expert consultations were held as a matter of urgency by the SP. That was about two weeks before the plenary debate. Once we were able to hold a written round of questions, supplemented by some messy questions. We have had a permanent influx of all kinds of informative pieces from different age groups and from personal documents. So I really can't share your opinion. I am concerned about the urgency of introducing this bill in 2015. And I can't hear you say anything about that. That is the point I want to make in this story. But you're going around it. You're trying to follow another trail sideways. Anyway, that's okay. I'd like to continue my story right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u104	Mr. Postema has one more opportunity to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u105	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. In addition to the fact that I note that this treatment time is apparently not the starting point for the PVV group, but rather the strategic issue of whether the bill should be introduced in 2015, 2016 or later, I note something else, and that is that you are ahead of a discussion that is yet to take place, namely when the WNT 2 will be dealt with here in this house. That is also a contradiction that you are wrong to invoke; you say that we are going through it and that the WNT is not being treated. Both are factually not true or premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u106	I would like to use this link to show the difference in the drafting of the legislative proposals. I will continue my speech. In order not to get too close to the state elections, it is also recalled by the SP and I was not aware of it, but I would like to hear what has been discussed, although I have some indication of political games unfortunately not hesitated. After all, the blow to those involved comes later and the state elections are not for two months. Critical thinkers are put under pressure in advance and the importance of the citizen is not any consideration in this story. However, as a technical explanation, it is argued that postponement would only lead to chaos in pension countries, with the fear of direct reductions under the current FTC and substantial increases in contributions. And indeed, here comes the monkey from the sleeve. As if the financial position has changed dramatically and the pension pots are empty by that date. It is a curious argument in a country with some 1200 billion in pension assets, a country...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You're gonna wonder where it went so suddenly. The answer is quite simple and can be traced back to a coalition that thinks it should rake in over 3 billion purely budgetary. In the absence of a vision, the loss of the collective pension system has been set in motion to an excess of disaster and in reverse order. With Witteveen 1 and 2, quite recently, all the tax-allowed construction has been draconically reduced. After a lengthy consultation, there is now a new financial review framework for everything, as an intermediate model of everything and nothing. We have heard it: nominal, real, intermediate model. It's not going anywhere. This will end with a festive "wide social dialogue on the future of our pension system" next year or at least what is left of it after all the above-mentioned demolition work. The main note will still require the necessary creativity from the Secretary of State. In the absence of enthusiasm at the orientation stage behind us, the dialogue in question has already turned into living-room discussions with the Secretary of State, who, moreover, does not feel that pensions are still 'a Mercedes, albeit less attribute'. The voice, it may look familiar to you. Yes, Mr President, no doubt, but then a Mercedes with limited to no engine power and completely blocked after this round. And after the dialogue, undoubtedly there is a muddy Trabantje, which can only be reversed, to supplement the metaphor. With this nftk, the design of our pension system is already heavily affected in advance. My group objects to this as a matter of principle. Note by the way: it is striking that, after all the Witteveen laws, there was a reduction in the amount of the premium, which was the threat of the statement of reasons, but rather an increase in the amount of the premium. With this nftk there will not be this effect of premium reduction either. The fact that the ABP, the largest pension fund, was the only one to reduce the premium for 2015, is under political pressure and purely optical, partly due to the omission of the existing 3% recovery premium. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. The government is the largest contributor and a substantial premium increase would, of course, be very detrimental. I understand that this has now become quite an incentive. Let's get back to the alleged urgency. The current pension system would be unsustainable, with the reason for low levels of coverage/coverage, rising deficits, threatening interventions in the form of large discounts, higher premiums and, in any case, the emptiness of the pension grape by those who actually filled it. Factfree politicians! Any analysis about the disadvantages of the current ftk is missing. That also the image of self-enrichment and duping of "young people" is downright suggestive. Setting up generations against each other seems to have been consciously made part of the game. For the sake of convenience, it has been said before, and that is what you will have to do when you are about as the last speaker, namely that in times of crisis, since 2008, the current securities and buffers have responded adequately and the funds have virtually recovered without difficulty. That's unlike the banks that sometimes hang on to the I.V. It's just how you look at it. Since then, the total capital invested has increased from 750 billion in the dip phase in 2008 to around 1300 billion this year and continues to grow. I would add that the average return is about 7%. Verily not nothing. Why, therefore, the need to restore buffers under the pretext of contributing to the financial capacity to index pensions? Isn't there enough cash? My group believes that there is a solution here to another relevant problem, and that is the extremely low interest rate; a direct consequence of Mr Draghi's free QE money policy in a soulless attempt to boost the Euro-economy. It is a counterproductive policy with unnecessary cover for pension funds as a false result. The fact that this cabinet feels called upon to abuse this artificial low momentum is no more or less than a piece of opportunity policy. If we consider the present nftk on seemingly technical merits, we can see the following. At first glance, this nftk seems limited where it de facto opts for nominal security and not for a more conditional contract with indexing guidance. The ambivalence of the idea has been to build in more certainty on the one hand not to get into directly large, undesirable discounts too quickly and, on the other hand, to pretend an ambition to index which is already almost illusory by means of an extremely complex delay system. This choice of a nominal framework combined with all tax build-up reductions under Witteveen implies no less than that the pension ambition has been drastically reduced. The final pension income and purchasing power of all groups is significantly reduced. In guaranteeing these nominal claims, the cabinet lost its way and completely lost its way. Security is stacked on security and its impact on the financial health of pension funds is correspondingly high. The price for all these unnecessarily stacked securities comes entirely at the expense of the participants, active and retired. Putting the system on hold actually throws the child away with the bath water. The technique prevails over any content. If we look at all these built-in false securities, we see the following image: 1. There is already a very prudent valuation of liabilities at risk-free interest rates. This risk-free interest rate is adjusted, which, on the one hand, substantially reduces the current level of coverage. On the other hand, the required level of coverage increases by an average of 5%. The result is that under the new rules the reserve deficit increases significantly, whether we look at the 12-month average policy coverage rate or the actual coverage rate. A recovery plan is therefore even faster than it is now in sight with all the resulting discount consequences, while any form of indexation disappears even further beyond the horizon. In short: with a lower built start coverage rate in the new system and higher buffer requirements recovery to the required coverage will take a very long time. In particular, a recovery plan aimed at achieving the required coverage rate of 130% should be drawn up each year. Moreover, can the Secretary of State indicate why a risk-free discount rate based on the yield of government bonds should be chosen at all? 2. The invented discount system of smearing seems better than it is. A lower start coverage is already a big built-in disadvantage. And despite being allowed to spread discounts over a ten-year rolling period, the chances of annual relatively small discounts are high. And if a coverage deficit below 105% lasts for more than five years, which is not unimaginable, direct discount will still take place. That can even be shortened above a 105% coverage level is already quite bizarre. 3. The introduction of a new stricter, lower UFR to appreciate long-term liabilities results in greater volatility of accounting interest rates and also does not benefit stability. UFR is nothing but a simple interest rate vision for the distant future and an unnecessary additional safety valve that further tightens the liabilities and thus brings indexing even further out of sight. It is still incomprehensible that pension funds should use a lower and more unstable UFR than insurers, who also have a firmer commitment. Why is the European UFR not being updated? Has it been thought that an ever-changing UFR debt instrument, in which we talk about about about three issues, forces us to change the investment policy with the resulting costs for the pension fund? 4. Special is the discrepancy in accounting interest used for determining the liabilities and for determining the premium. The premium is based on the expected return higher than the risk-free interest rate. A strange discrepancy, which brings this muffled premium below cost-covering level, for the benefit of active participants and certainly for the benefit of the government as the largest contributor. The premium instrument is thus disabled as a parameter to contribute to recovery. Can the State Secretary justify why the actual premium has been below the cost-covering premium for a long time? 5. The proposed indexation rules completely close the system. Indexation is virtually impossible in a bar in which coverage can only be indexed from 110% and only the part of the buffer above 110% may be included. That is a very strong threshold. And can there be indexed, then inhibits the requirement of resistant indexing the degree of indexing greatly. A few examples: for 110% coverage, the indexing is 0%, for 120% it is 1% and for 130% it is only 2%. How generous do you want the system? If regular indexing is almost impossible, this certainly applies to the catching up of missed indexing in the past. For this even the limit applies from 135% and then in very small steps of a fifth part. I think that is a very cheap hand-off to the small three to support this bill. What a concession! Moreover, most of the funds are already suffering from significant indexing disadvantages and nominal discounts. So far our comments on the technicalities of this wretched whole. My question is perhaps a little premature, namely whether the Secretary of State shares our analysis. I don't think so, but I'd like to hear an answer. My group also has reservations about all CPB transfers. My group understands that the Secretary of State is keen to use this office manager of the cabinet to obtain the very desired quality mark of accuracy. The term "generational balance" must do wonders and demonstrate that it is not so bad and that no one really gets worse. In this respect, there is a need to adapt to this kind of calculations, which are also manufactured under high pressure with the help of a very small circle of house advisers. It should be made clear that this does not in any case benefit the judgment. No one will benefit from fog except perhaps this cabinet. Recalculability is debatable. An independent assessment would be very necessary. The main conclusion is that, in its assumptions, the CPB is based, for ease of reference, on one representative fictitious fund, whereas in reality there is a great diversity in investment results, size and composition. According to the CPB, the overall generation effects would be small, i.e. for the one example fund with a coverage rate of about 110%. How real is that? My group concludes that the new ftk does not develop generationally neutral, that it depends on the financial position of each fund, that the negative effect is at least 5% and rather 10% for the public population, that all participants are declining and that de facto only young people who are not yet participating or who are still to be born could theoretically benefit from the higher buffering, but that in all likelihood will never experience after this system has been dismantled. Making statements by the CPB on this narrow basis does not give confidence in the accuracy of the results. In particular, the adjustment of the risk-free premium has not been taken into account; an advantage for the younger generations. Handling low risk-free interest rates automatically leads to a deterioration of the indexation option. In addition, the CPB does not address the story of the cost-covering premium. The concept of "generational balance" is also not clearly defined. Furthermore, it is completely unclear whether the UFR change effect has been correctly processed by the CPB. To take the "WC Duck" judgment of the Secretary of State for granted, we go too far. On the counter effects of the massive risk hedge of a falling interest rate due to the nominal thermometer, I will not elaborate for long. Evident is that this is not only costly but also has deep generation effects and, especially in the event of a sharp increase in interest rates, further undermines purchasing power. I should also like to mention the ECHR review here because of the time. It's all been said about it. Finally, the freedom of fund management to act at its own discretion has been removed from this proposal. On the dashboard of the Trabantje, which I mentioned, the premium button has been fixed and the index button removed, while the investment policy button has only two modes. Speaking of the confidence expressed in the funds themselves, I find it remarkable that special teams of the Nederlandsche Bank visit the funds to do research on the spot. I would like to conclude with a final assessment of this bill. That's not a good thing. My group wants to be very clear about that. In an unsubstantiated opinion on the sustainability of our pension system, this cabinet is in a misplaced attempt to secure the scheme completely close. Security is stacked on security; the discount system and indexing staffling completely lock the system. Due to the low start coverage positions, the recovery time to a high level of coverage combined with high buffer requirements will take an extremely long time. The risk of a continuous discount period with low discounts every year is very high. In addition, it may be assumed with some certainty that the phenomenon of indexing will be a thing of the past; the option of catching up indexing has really become a joke. In this context, a few facts about indexation: the average indexing lag has been measured from 2005 onwards around 9%; rising to 13%. In price developments, the loss is much higher, i.e. 15%. Add to this the forthcoming unindexed period and the purchasing power loss will easily reach 30% by 2030. Basically, the core value of a pension fund is thrown overboard, i.e. the ambition of maintaining purchasing power. Implicitly, this basic principle is abandoned in this instrumental law. It is also forgotten that the group of pensioners no longer has the horizon and the freedom of action in choices to continue to catch up and to catch up in the future, as opposed to today's young people or the elderly who will hopefully be going through times of economic boom and will be able to do so. And as far as the active participants are concerned, this group too will only feel increasing loss of indexing, after the build-up has already been severely reduced. No one wins at this new ftk. But yes, once you have caught the active participants with a much lower structure and without any real reduction in the premium, then this is the time to show solidarity to the older participants by putting them on the zero line for years, to the point of eternality. That purchasing power is essential for economic recovery does not fit into this tunnel can. This cabinet obviously does not realize that it is breaking down such a collective and solidarity system, or it is a deliberate attempt to do so. The door has been opened to a further ambition erosion. The planned dialogue is expected to do the rest. A principle discussion on intrinsic core values of a pension scheme has already been torpedoed in advance by this instrumental bill. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether this is meant to be a 'political of value'. And how does she judge, I quote, that is clear, 'the lack of trust of people in the belief that politics can mean anything to them'? So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would almost say that it is five to twelve for this bill, but that moment has passed. Let us take a very serious look at this law. On the one hand, I am here with pleasure and regret, because our colleague Mrs Liesbeth Kneppers cannot be here today because of an eye surgery. She has prepared the procedure for this bill. My group is grateful to her that we have all been able to prepare ourselves in detail and to take its expert advice. I will try to put forward the opinion, the concerns, the questions and the views of the group in a careful and critical manner, after which we hope and expect the Secretary of State to provide convincing answers. After a few preliminary remarks, I would like to raise the following issues. Strategic investment policy, the UFR, the generational impact and communication to participants and pensioners. The outcome of the survey carried out by the Gold Sword Commission in 2010 was threefold: people do not want a risky pension and therefore a certain pension. People want a high expected benefit and as low a contribution as possible. However, risk, ambition and cost, are linked. The rising life expectancy, which was much faster than expected but also much longer than expected, puts the sustainability of the Dutch pension system under pressure from the low capital market rate, the frequency and depth of financial shocks and uncertain investment income. In recent years, it became increasingly clear that pensions are also subject to risks and that guarantees and full security do not exist. And people don't like uncertainty. The draft law has therefore put a lot of emotions into motion, and that is understandable. Pensions affect a lot of people, not only those who are retired, but also the workers, the participants and the sleepers. It is mainly the elderly who have moved. I would like to stress that it is not just pensioners who pay the bill. That impression, at least with me, threatened to arise quite often over the past few weeks. Not only the pensioners are disappointed, but also the participants. Eventually, everyone pays the bill. Employers and employees opted in the pension agreements of 2010 and 2011 for a pension with the absolute security released..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Pension contracts should then be adapted as well as the financial review framework. My group regrets that there has not been a logical sequence of discussions about the pension dialogue, which should lead to the adjustment of the pension contract, and then to the new system. I have also raised this in the written preparation to which the Government's response is that waiting for the outcome of the pension dialogue would be too late. The revision of the ftk is cut into the category of major maintenance. The legislative proposal is therefore still based on the existing pension contract. This is a benefit agreement, as it is now regulated by the Pension Act, complemented by ambition to index. This bill is therefore an intermediate step, and new legislation must follow. The State Secretary indicated in her planning letter in December that he would send a guidance letter on the improvement of the premium agreements with and without collective risk sharing to the Lower House. My group hopes that the government will enable pension funds to come up with a fundamental solution and an innovative approach, away from the benefit agreements and also away from the premium agreements, because thinking from this distinction imposes unnecessary restrictions on pension funds. Does the government agree with this and will it promise that this cabinet period will be taken further and will not wait for another cabinet? That could be a nice handout. I come to the strategic investment policy. To maintain purchasing power, pension funds must be managed from the point of view of real value. This requires a clear view of investment policy, a clear view of the relationship between risk and return and often a choice between investing in bonds, shares, cash values, real estate, project finance, alternative investments, commodity's etc. In general, it is recognised that investment in government bonds is very safe, low risk and highly suited to achieving a nominal pension. Shares and real estate are more risky, but usually yield more returns. Indexes shall be financed from the return on capital. The choice of forms and means of investment is up to the funds. They have the expertise and within certain frameworks they can make the right choices and define in their investment policy. Pension funds that invest at higher risk should also hold a higher buffer than pension funds that do not. However, pension funds are very limited in their strategic investment policies in the new ftk. In the further note following the report from the House of Representatives, we read: "Under the new ftk, it remains important to prevent funds from increasing their risk profile purely to avoid tedious short-term measures"; gamble for resurrection. At the same time, the rules are now so restrictive that funds that want to adjust their strategic investment policies due to long-term policy choices or external circumstances should not be allowed to do so as long as their coverage is below the required equity. This too is an undesirable situation, as it can hinder an optimally structured strategic investment policy. The cabinet is therefore still considering a solution to this dilemma and will come back to this later on in the discussion of the legislative proposal." Subsequently, in a letter dated 14 October 2014, the Secretary of State indicated that pension funds that do not have a coverage deficit in 2015 will be given the opportunity once to raise the risk profile. Funds that are in funding deficit in 2015 will be given that space once if they come out of funding deficit at a later date. But why is that just a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity? The new ftk clearly indicates the risk margin that funds are allowed to use, namely that the policy coverage rate should exceed the required own funds within 10 years at the latest. Within this risk margin, pension funds should be able to adjust their risk profile more often, for example when adjusting the yield parameters or when risk premiums have become particularly attractive due to market developments. This promotes a more optimal implementation of investment policies and thus creates more potential for the funds to recover. In doing so, the risks shall be limited by the risk margin referred to above. In any case, in the opinion of my group, there are external circumstances which should allow a fund to adjust its investment policy. What about the situation where a fund merges or changes the population? Why should a fund not make its investment policy more risky at certain objective moments? We would like a commitment from the Secretary of State on this point. I'm here to talk about the generational effect. In response to questions from the CDA, the Centraal Planbureau has made a new note Generation and premium effects adjustment pension rules 2015. The conclusion is that for an average fund the effects of the proposed adjustments to the new CSF are limited on balance. Older people are less likely to get substantial discounts, but also less likely to get quick indexing or even catch-up indexing. It was already known. My group has two questions about this. First of all... What is an average fund? In my group's view, this fund does not exist. The generic calculations of the Central Planning Bureau differ according to fund. In the written round, my group has already noted that pension funds seem to suffer without difficulty from the problems of a limited number of funds. However, they must also apply stricter indexation rules and higher buffer requirements. Can the Secretary of State indicate why she's operating so generically? Second. Do we even know exactly what the generation effects are? Is it socially sensible to emphasize the generational effects, whatever they may be? One generation shouldn't stand up to another. This is not only about solidarity between age groups, but also about solidarity between high- and low-paid people. Isn't there a threat of creating an atmosphere that risks no longer need to be shared together? This would put the ax at the root of our elsewhere so famous pension system, while it should be sustainable and sustainable, for now, but also for the future, for the present and for future pensioners. After all, today's young people are also entitled to a good pension in due course. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I would like to be brief about the UFR, because it has been mentioned several times this evening. In our opinion, the introduction of a new UFR as of 1 January 2015 leads to instability in the pension system as a result of the impact on the level of coverage. Moreover, pension funds are forced to incur twice the cost of changing hedges of interest rate risk in the short term. We urge the Secretary of State to maintain the postponement of the new UFR and the UFR applicable for 2014 until the investigation promised by the Secretary of State to the House of Representatives is completed, so that an update can be made at once. The VVD calls for the committee to be made a joint committee and to include some independent foreign experts, also in view of the relationship with European regulations. Part of today's dissatisfaction, which we have been able to observe because of the many responses, is due to unclear expectations people have about their pension. The pension funds, but also we, the politicians, should not run away from it in order to show people what real expectations are. It's been missing that for the last decade. On the other hand, the subject is so complicated that it will not be easy to determine how best communication can take place. An article in Het Financieele Dagblad last Saturday under the title "Pension: we can't make it more fun" is illustrative in that respect. We are therefore curious to see how the Pension Communication Bill, which is now in the House of Representatives, will solve this. That goes for the future. My group would like to know from the Secretary of State how, if this bill for the new Ftk is adopted, it believes that the consequences for participants and pensioners should be made clear. How do you explain to pensioners why, on the capital side, in the premium calculation, a higher return is taken into account than in the valuation of liabilities, where risk-free interest is included? This is a subject on which we have had many letters and e-mails, partly under the influence of the views of the elderly organisations. Should we not ask funds to communicate in detail about this and at least include in their annual report how this will work out and explain the muted, cost-covering premium? Madam President. The VVD Group welcomes the answer to its questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Beckers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-5.u109	I'm suspending the sitting for a break until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning.
