ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Despite many parties' request to be informed by 10 p.m. last night, we were informed by the Cabinet at 10.07 p.m. this morning. The cabinet actually says that it does not do much to vote away the bill which includes Article 13, the pgb and a ban on vertical integration. I'm rather surprised at that. In my view, emergency legislation for the personal budget is really necessary. The health insurance companies say the healthcare agreements are going down. Since we are so minimally informed about the consequences of aligning the bill in the First Chamber, I think it would be wise to have a debate on this with the Minister now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Request for support for holding a debate with the VWS Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	The CDA Group supports this request. This skinny note actually leaves 50,000 people with a pgb in uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	The PVV Group supports holding a debate today, because there is a lot at stake. Healthcare insurers have already threatened that the healthcare agreements are no longer in place. It seems to me that we need to have a debate on this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	We support this request for a debate. There is great unrest among pgb holders about what this means for their care from 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	We wholeheartedly support this request. We certainly cannot leave the pgb holders in the cold, but it seems that the minister is doing so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	The pgb is worth a lot to us. I have a lot of questions about the Minister's letter. My group needs to put these questions in a written procedure so that we can put them to the Minister. We want another letter. I can very well imagine that there will be a debate on this at some point, but I think it is too early to hold a debate now. I still have too many questions. I know there's talk going on, too. This afternoon, for example, the health insurance companies will be talking to each other. I would like to give that process another chance and wait for what comes out of it before we decide whether or not we want to have a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	We do not now support the holding of a debate. We'd like a letter from the cabinet by 10:00 tomorrow. We have three important questions. How is the personalised budget process now regulated by the Health Insurance Act? There's a lack of clarity about that, so we'd like to be clear about that process. We don't want people getting hurt. We're talking about 50,000 people. Neighborhood care will be completed on 1 January 2015. We want to be clear about that from the Minister. There is also a lack of clarity as to the way in which the health insurers are listed. So we would like to hear whether they accept the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	The SGP Group also does not need a debate at the moment. We are further informed about the consequences of the discussion on the choice of doctors. The most important thing for the people in the coming period, which concerns them directly, is the question of how the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act is going, now that the bill has not been passed. The government has clearly stated that it is intended that this should continue. We still have a few questions about this. Is that what the health insurance companies are like in there? Do they conform to this? Are people informed in good time about the consequences this will have for them? I agree with what Mrs Bergkamp of the D66 Group said, namely that we would like to receive a letter on this matter before 10.00 a.m. tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	Clock's ticking. People are entitled to clarity and that is why we support the request for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	No support for a debate. Fortunately, in the letter we received, the pgb will be there next year in the Health Insurance Act. It also states that replacement legislation is necessary and that it will soon come to the Chamber. That's good, too. As far as the VVD is concerned, there does not necessarily need to be a letter, but I hear that wish from other parties. If that letter can be on the main lines, as requested by the SGP and D66, that letter may be there in the morning. Then we will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	No support for the debate. We can imagine that there is a need for a further letter following the discussion that the health insurance companies will have this afternoon. We would like a letter to address the three main questions that Mrs Bergkamp has just raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mrs Leijten, you do not have the support of the majority of the Chamber for holding a debate. The majority did ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	I find it rather striking that three or actually five parties are debating each other, but do not want to have a debate in the Chamber. On television we see everyone going into and out of the Tower, but here in the Chamber no hobby or calf should be given. I will tell you why I want the debate now. This emergency legislation for the pgb is necessary, because we cannot do anything now to interfere with the rates for the personalised budget. I thought it was a chamber-wide wish to anchor the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. We already know that the health insurance companies dive below the rates. We also know that no one will offer higher rates, because then you get all the pgb-holders and then you run a risk as a health insurance company. I find it really impossible for the door of the Tower to be knocked down, but that no debate can take place here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Let's not fool each other. There are clearly five parties here who have made an appointment: we draw the curtains and after a letter has come, we say we want a letter. That's the point. A letter was requested yesterday. If those Members wished to have a number of questions in them, they should have put those questions. I therefore appeal to those five parties, Mr D66, the Christian Union, the SGP and the other two coalition parties, to agree to a debate. Let me make one thing clear: no later than tomorrow, the Chamber must have debated whether there will be a solution for all those people by 1 January. If that does not happen, the responsibility for these five parties and the coalition is too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	I support Mr Buma in that, but I would like to say in particular that there is currently a great chaos in the cabinet about rejecting that bill. I do not think it is possible for three parties - some of the group chairmen concerned - to have even spoken to this microphone yesterday at the Tower. The group chairmen of the SGP, the Christian Union and D66 visited Mr Rutte in the Tower. That means the rest of the Chamber is lagging behind. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister, through you, to send a letter to the Chamber before 2 p.m. this afternoon indicating what was discussed there with the fellow group chairmen of those three parties. I want that letter. For the rest, I support any request for a rapid debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	I wholeheartedly support the request. There are two things. What my group has proposed through Mrs Leijten must, of course, be done as quickly as possible. The questions that the Christian Union has, of course, could have been asked yesterday or now. Then that letter could be there at 5:00. On the second point: Mr Wilders is, of course, quite right. I would therefore like to make a preliminary announcement of the possibility of an additional arrangement at 5 p.m. If that letter doesn't contain anything or a lot, I want a debate with the Prime Minister. After all, there is a lot more going on here than a law being voted down for a while. There really is a crisis atmosphere. I would like to be able to talk to the Prime Minister about this, possibly, and I do not want to talk about this only to those five parties in the Tower.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	How great must the chaos and uncertainty be before we have a debate in this Chamber on people who are affected at the heart of their existence and who are uncertain about it and about a gap in the budget, in which Minister Schippers talks about the amount of 1 billion? When do we have the right to have a debate here with this Minister on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	One thing is clear: the rejection of the bill means that the personal budget as of 1 January is not enshrined in the Health Insurance Act. In fact, that regrets the whole Chamber. We can see that. This was also apparent from the motion of the Upper House and this is also apparent in the Lower House. It seems to me also to the people who are affected by this, that there is no fog about it, and that is why that letter is coming tomorrow morning. Let's get rid of all the other political games until there's more clarity on how to proceed. In fact, a large part of this Chamber says: fine, that it has been rejected, we do not need to hear any more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	I think this is a personal fact. The fact that I want to have a debate here with the Prime Minister about the chaos caused by the cabinet itself is anything but a political game, but the harsh reality in which the Netherlands has been plunged. I'm not used to something like that from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	I support the argument of the SGP. At the moment, it is important that the people who have a personal budget, that those 50,000 people have security and clarity. That is why we have asked additional questions. We also want them to be properly answered and we also want to know how the process continues. We also want to give the cabinet time to come up with a good substantive letter. That is the background to the supplementary questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mrs Bergkamp has raised a number of basic questions. I thought that was fine with questions. It is precisely because of the importance of the people about whom this is about, the people who depend on care with a pgb, that I think it is important that we deal with this carefully and that we also give the Cabinet time to answer these questions in substance. The consultation with the health insurance companies will be held this afternoon. So let's take our time. Perhaps we can then have that debate tomorrow, but I think it is really too early, precisely because of the importance of the people we are debating here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	It is not only important that the Minister should be able to respond carefully to the questions we have; it is also important that we as a Chamber should be able to hold the debate before the recess and have sufficient time for it. So my proposal, which I hope all Members will be able to agree, is to have a letter before 5 p.m., so that we can still have a debate tomorrow if that letter raises questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	I would like to make the following comment. The government itself has chosen to place the anchoring of the personal budget in this law, with the risk that we have now run. Then we can look away as a Chamber and say on Twitter, for example, that pgb'ers are the victims and at the same time shun the debate here, but I think we should just have that debate here. The emergency bill needs to be put in place. We know we can do this. If we can enforce that, we can also show that we have a lot of differences in the choice of doctors, but that we have no differences in the choice of doctors. I would like to say to Mr van der Staaij that we are not playing a political game. For the rest, I think there are two requests: a letter from the Prime Minister and a letter from the Minister and an arrangement of work this afternoon. Then let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	I also conclude for a moment that two letters have been requested, one to the Prime Minister and one to the Minister, and that the majority of the Chamber does not expect that letter to the Minister until 10 a.m. tomorrow morning, while the Chamber wants the Prime Minister's letter to be sent by 2 p.m. this afternoon. I will forward the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet. I have also heard that a request has been made for an additional arrangement of work this afternoon at 5 p.m.; at least we will take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	I have nothing to do with your conclusion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	That is allowed in the Acts; I will not delete it when it comes in. My fear is that tomorrow we will receive a letter and then five parties will say: thank you for the letter, a debate is not necessary. There has been a debate on fewer crises. I would therefore like to announce that when that letter arrives at 5 p.m., I cannot rule out the possibility of asking for a vote on the debate before the recess if the coalition still refuses to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	Of course, you always have that opportunity. Thank you very much for this announcement. This has put an end to this arrangement of work.
