ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. "Watch out! The Dutch throw fireworks on the streets, in gardens, mailboxes and waste containers, whether group or not. Fireworks are thrown at pedestrians, cyclists, cars and animals. And especially in crowded areas, there may be increasing crime." This text comes from the American embassy, which thinks it should warn American citizens who live in the Netherlands about the way in which we are celebrating our anniversary. Other countries think that's weird. Now I am very much in favour of weird things like that, but at the moment when the safety of citizens and children is in danger, we have to get behind our ears. The fireworks tradition is starting to get out of hand. The Party for Animals has been pointing this out for a number of years and is now supported by VVD-coryfeeën as Mayor Van Aartsen here in The Hague who thinks the tradition has been derailed. This year, too, things are starting to get out of hand. Fireworks have been thrown under a stroller and another puppy has exploded, but the cabinet does not seem to want to understand that the habit of handing out ammunition to civilians is dangerous. Military people also say that they get extensive training to deal with such explosives, but that with old and new everyone can simply walk around with them. We need to get rid of that. Because of the pressure, the cabinet has agreed to change the tradition by tightening the rules. From now on, on New Year's Day, fireworks can only be fired from 6 p.m. onwards. However, there appears to be insufficient capacity to maintain it. How's that? Municipalities ring the bell. They assumed that this would be arrested together with the Ministry of Security and Justice. However, the Minister does not seem to be giving at home. I would like to hear an explanation on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for her questions. We have chosen, in very good consultation with the municipalities in our country, to change the working hours. They're now from 6:00 to 2:00 in the morning. There is great agreement on this point between the municipalities, the Secretary of State of I and M and me. However, in our country enforcement is done by local authority, by the triangle of mayor, public prosecutor and police. I have not heard any complaints about this in the consultations we have had. I also have great confidence that this measure will lead to an improvement in the celebration of the New Year which we consider so dear in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	There seem to be two realities. We also read that letter at the time: the rules are tightened in the sense that it is no longer possible to fire fireworks on New Year's Day from 10:00 in the morning but only from 18:00 in the evening. That seems to be a cautious step in recognising that it is dangerous all the time. The Chamber has been informed that the Ministry of Security and Justice is taking this together with the municipalities. We now understand from the VNG that municipalities feel abandoned because they thought that sufficient money would be made available by the Ministry of Security and Justice. Those are the signals that have reached us. There seems to be insufficient budget to effectively enforce the rules and there seems to have been insufficient consultation with the Ministry on the willingness of the Ministry to contribute to this. I ask the Minister once again: is the signal we received from the Dutch municipalities not correct? I would like to hear an explanation of what the Ministry has done to ensure that the new rules are actually enforced and people know what the new rules are.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	Once again, thank you to Mrs Ouwehand for clarifying her question. Local authority maintains, not us. We have no role to play in this. We do have a role to play in drawing up the rules. The prime responsibility for this lies with the Secretary of State. I told you how it came about. It is an initiative of the municipalities, in particular the G-4. I read many more nuanced reports in the newspaper today, including about mayors who are in favour of improving the situation. They are indeed using the regulations that are now in place, including fireworks-free zones. I think it is also clear that the balance is made locally. I have a lot of faith in this. There's no relationship with my department in that regard. We do not need to make an extra euro available for this. No request has come to us for this either. I support local authority in their enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	Local authority will be pleased to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	I very much hope so. I hope they're listening, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	Minister! Mrs Ouwehand spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	I am very sorry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	Still, there seems to have been some miscommunication. It is the VNG, not the first to tell the national administration that it is extremely strange that the enforcement of a national measure, such as the shortening of the turnoff period, should be paid by the municipality itself. A spokesperson said that this would be taken together, but Minister Opstelten is now failing. There hasn't even been a national campaign. How are people supposed to know something's changed? Are these statements correct and are there really any misunderstandings? Or is the VNG right and would the Ministry come across to work together on enforcement and communication and has the Minister just made a mistake here?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	No, one more time, there's no misunderstanding. It is simply a question of applying the rules as we have been doing for years in a row. However, the rules have changed slightly at the request of the municipalities. There has been no request to me to provide additional capacity for this. We simply have the police capacity in our country, the boas and other local authority. We're not interfering. I'm gonna say that again. There is no misunderstanding about this. I shall now turn to the second point. With a campaign, you should never start too early. You don't have to start it until the decisions about the campaign have been taken. The Secretary of State of I and M will then write to all municipalities again and support a campaign for fireworks glasses. Some mayors have already set an example for this. I have no fear whatsoever that anyone in our country will not know that from this year onwards the fireworks can only be turned off from 18.00 hours. I repeat: this year the fireworks can only be turned off from 6 p.m. on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	The viewers to Politics24 may know that now. Isn't it particularly wise to make sure from the Empire that everyone knows this? The Minister knows it, we know it now in this room and the viewers. The rest of the Netherlands should know this too. My party does not think it is right to introduce a new measure on a subject which is supposed to be a festive one and to fine the people without telling them. I call on the Minister to ensure a proper information campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	I have indicated a number of measures which the Secretary of State will identify. She will send a letter to all municipalities about the change of the fireworks decision. It also mentions the new cutting-off times in the national campaigns on fireworks and heavy and illegal fireworks. I and M shall also issue a press release simultaneously with the entry into force of the decision. There will also be a message on the website of the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. It's gonna come out all the time from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs Van Tongeren, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u14	I don't think most teenage boys who're gonna light this fireworks are gonna consult the crime prevention website on a daily basis. I therefore call again for a decent national campaign. But do I also understand the Minister that no extra money is being allocated by the Empire, no extra effort, no extra capacity, and that both the information and the enforcement of the fence is being targeted at the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u15	I have said the necessary things about information. He'll do the Secretary of State for I and M. Enforcement is not a matter for the Empire in this country, and you are a great advocate of it yourself, but of local authority. I would like to emphasise that once again. Local authority has also stressed that it is going to change the cutting times. We have had good discussions, we have given each other our hands and we have said: this is how we are going to do it. That will now be the measures from 31 December, 6 p.m. The heavy illegal fireworks are a responsibility of customs together with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Inspection Environment and Transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u16	I am standing here because this is also a very important point for my group. It has been mentioned by previous speakers, but the Christian Union also considers it very important that people are well informed about the new measures put forward by the government. I'm not convinced yet by the Minister's answer. He says: we're going to inform the municipalities, the information is going to be on a crime prevention website and there's going to be a campaign on fireworks. That's all good. I won't say anything about that. But how will my neighbor, my neighbor, know that the new cutting times have changed? What is the Minister's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u17	This is done by the measures and much more. The national campaign on fireworks and heavy and illegal fireworks will also include the change in times. Everyone is aware that you should not start in October about firing fireworks. That's what you have to do when it comes to it. Good campaigners know that they should never be too early, but they should start at the right time. The Secretary of State will certainly do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u18	I do not hear the Minister say that there is going to be a campaign specifically for informing people about the new cutting times. It's about fireworks. Nice too, but that wasn't the question. I want to know from the minister if he's going to check. Then what will be his moment of success or his failure when we see the figures later on 1 January? Has the Minister set out benchmarks for this? How many people knew? How many people have kept to it? How'd it go with the enforcement? Does the minister have any goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u19	I'm gonna say again that it's being taken into account in the national campaigns. That is what is happening in its entirety. You're not doing a campaign for this and a campaign for that, when it's all about firing fireworks. You're gonna do that in one go. Then no one will miss it. The moment of measurement lies in the hands of you and of me and of the whole of the Netherlands, of the citizens. We gotta make it a party. I hope that, among other things, these measures will help to make things better than last year. We'll know that on January 1st. By the way, we are used to evaluating every New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mrs Ouwehand, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u21	Sure. It's been the same every year now. I would like the Minister to promise that, before it is old and new, he will let the Chamber know what criteria he has for an evaluation. Last year we saw the Belgian news. There'd only been seven cars on fire. There were 8,400 incidents in the Netherlands. Then we see the Minister of Security and Justice on television saying that violence against aid workers is unacceptable, and the year after that it is exactly the same again. What reflection can we expect from this cabinet? May we perhaps get it from the cabinet for upcoming old and new, so that we can see after old and new whether this policy actually brings the goals closer, namely a nice old and new without wounded and without violence against aid workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u22	I hope so with Mrs Ouwehand. I don't need to indicate targets in advance. Targets belong to the local government, to the mayors and the local police. That's the point. I know that the mayors in the cities and their triangle partners are good for that. They've taken the measures considered. There are 41 municipalities that have created fireworks-free zones. They will have weighed that well, taking into account the enforcement aspects. So I'm confident we're gonna do a little better than next year. We'll know January 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you for your answers. You may stay for a while, because the next question will also be put to you.
