ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	The vote is a bit out of whack, but I'd like to ask everyone to sit down. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their first contribution last night. It is an important subject. It is a debate that I have been looking forward to. We talked about the master plan in three phases. Then electronic detention at the front was killed, as Mr Van der Steur also said in his contribution. The bill on electronic detention at the back is now before us. The bill is about more than that, as some of the Members have mentioned. It is also about abolishing detention phase and a number of other matters. The most important thing, I think, is the introduction of electronic detention and the abolition of penitentiary programmes. The bill is part of the re-examination by the Cabinet of the way in which custodial sentences are carried out. Let me say that it is also in order to achieve a austerity objective. First of all, I have a large number of general comments. Let me say a few words about the pending procedure, on which Mr Schouw has asked for something. Several members asked questions about the contribution to the recurrent target, the relationship to conditional release, the meaningful daily spending, the monitoring, the target groups concerned, the finances and capacity. I shall conclude with a few other questions. I've been trying to divide it into a few blocks, Mr. Chairman. I know that you and your colleagues are always very fond of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	It's a pleasure for you, and I appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	I'll start with the general part. How are we going to implement this? We do this by changing the course of detention and allowing the stay outside the prison only under electronic supervision and under probation supervision. The degree of non-committality currently contained in the penitentiary programme should be abolished. In the government's view, many forms of leave have become too self-evident and do not have a specific objective of reintegration and in which the personal behaviour and responsibility of detainees still play a too limited role. In our view, this does not fit in with a controlled return to society, which a large number of Members have also discussed in the first term. Society has an interest in a controlled return of detainees, which is aimed at preventing recurrence. A good preparation of prisoners for their return to society requires first and foremost the commitment of those inmates themselves. The cabinet therefore also wants to place more emphasis on the personal responsibility of the detainees for their conduct, some of the members have also spoken about this; it is about promoting and demolishing prisoners and the motivation of prisoners. Inmates of good will can earn extra facilities with good behavior and hard work, both inside and outside the prison. Incorrigibles, which of course we have, do not. That is what we are going to do. They are not eligible for additional facilities that can be earned with good behaviour. They cannot, in the first instance, be eligible for external freedoms. A number of Members raised the question of whether I should give up those people. Do I say, "Find out until the moment the cell doors open?" Not that. I will go into this in detail later on in the sub-topics. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Kooiman have explicitly asked me to do so. So I will go into it in detail. The prisoner himself holds the key to a successful return to free society. Inmates who wish to but cannot, will be extra supported by the Judicial Institutions Service. With behavior and efforts during the detention period, the inmate must show that he is willing to invest in himself. In this case, he will also be eligible for the plus programme: wider possibilities for resocialisation and external freedoms in the form of participation in electronic detention. A number of members have asked about electronic detention. He's got a double goal. On the one hand, we are opting for an execution mode that allows safe and restrictive execution of custodial sentences. On the other hand, electronic detention should also contribute to necessary cuts. I won't deny it; it just is. Moreover, some of the parties present here in the Chamber had already recognised this when the Spring Agreement was concluded, because that agreement increased the austerity of prisons and electronic detention to 34 million. Yesterday, in the first term, there was a strong criticism of the bill. I've been a little surprised by that criticism. After all, wasn't it Minister Hirsch Ballin who submitted a legislative proposal to the Council of State in 2010? Apparently, some people in this room have forgotten that. Again, were it not also the then groups of the CDA, GroenLinks, the Christian Union, D66 and the VVD who signed that Spring Agreement in 2012, which included the 34 million in savings with electronic detention and the austerity of the prison regime? I was also surprised by the criticism of Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Van Tongeren. They said that there is no visionary austerity without a re-socialisation objective, with all the risks involved, such as the increase of recidivism. However, as Mr Marcouch and Mr Van der Steur rightly said, promoting and demolishing and using electronic detention is precisely that work on changing behaviour, which the SP and GroenLinks groups always consider to be extremely important. In addition, when staying outside the prison there is work, training or behavioural interventions, under supervision and under the supervision of the parole board. I thought this would appeal to the GroenLinks and SP groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	I was thinking about that lawyer. When he has a weak case, he thinks: you know what, I'm gonna throw on top of it, blame everyone and forget to go seriously into the criticism. This is more of a remark, a cry of hearts, but then I've lost it too. My question is about the money. The Secretary of State is going to treat this as a final point, but he has already mentioned the amount twice in his introduction. Is that amount poured into concrete? And is that amount leading to the substantive considerations that can be made in electronic detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	I assume that Mr Schouw is talking about the amount of 16 million that had to be achieved, about the amount of savings linked to the introduction of this law. We talked about that in the master plan. It was a much higher amount at first. Mr Schouw knows that too. That amount was then "softened," brought down. At that time too, when discussing the master plan in three phases, I said that a certain amount of savings had to be made. Indeed, I have just mentioned an amount. I didn't do that to say that we have a weak case, like the lawyer who has a weak case and goes straight into the attack. I did so as a ruler who was a bit surprised by yesterday's comment. I was not surprised that there are groups that do not feel warm about this bill. That's what I expected. However, I was surprised that there was criticism from political groups who could not remember that they had ever endorsed a cut through electronic detention. That was only two and a half years ago. So it's not cast in concrete, but it's got to bring in 16 million, yeah. I'll just give Mr Schouw an answer. Let me remind him of that. I have heard many fundamental objections, including from groups who have been very happy to write this in the Spring Agreement for 34 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Of course, it's always about the way you carry it out and set it up. This Secretary of State understands that like no other, so I... well, he gets to choose his own words; I don't object to that. Only, if the amount is poured into concrete, can't we talk about the effect with the Secretary of State? So I really want to know, otherwise we're kind of wasting our time here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	We are never wasting our time, because the parliamentary groups have indicated what they think. Then it is the right of the cabinet to comment on that. So his time is never wasted on Mr Schouw, if he is interested in the debate on this important subject. You're never wasting your time, but aside from that. At least I am not wasting my time here, and I hope that Members will not agree either, because it is an important subject. At least that is how I listened to the Chamber yesterday. Has it been poured into concrete? However, in the sense that I heard Mr Schouwen say yesterday in his speech that electronic detention can only start from the moment of conditional release, and that his group does not really see much room to apply electronic detention before the time of conditional release. Yeah, if you find a system like that, it could be a system that works. I am not at all opposed to linking electronic detention, for example, to conditional release after conditional release. However, it is a bit of a mistake that we now have a penitentiary programme that began eighteen months before the date of conditional release and that for a number of offences it is now twelve months before the date of conditional release and I also indicated during the discussion on the master plan that this period is necessary to achieve some reduction. If you only start from the moment of conditional release with the introduction of electronic detention, as Mr Schouw said yesterday in his contribution, surprising to me, you will not achieve any cuts. Zero. You realize zero savings with that. In fact, it costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	It's always nice if someone remembers what other people have said very well, but I think it's funny to read back what Secretary of State Bitch said about electronic detention. According to the VVD, it was too sad for words. That's what the Secretary of State said back then. Another: stop dreaming and land on the real world; stop this policy! And that's how it's gonna go on for a while. I find it fascinating that he has forgotten that, but I am particularly concerned about the following. Once upon a time, this Secretary of State was a real crimefighter, but it is so disappointing that at the moment he is nothing more than an accountant, and also a bad one. An accountant who actually says, "I'm going to take all kinds of measures now. I think it is important for people to have a meaningful day's spending and go to work and get training and participate in behavioural interventions. I love all that, but I'm not gonna do that anymore. I'm just whispering about the fence to the municipalities and they can do it." And when the Council of State asks what it will cost the municipalities, he says: yes, I don't really know. And then the Secretary of State joins the CDA and he says, "You've signed up for a sum." But then the Secretary of State also forgot our counter-budget and the amendments we tabled to reverse the draconian cuts of this Secretary of State. I'm particularly curious as to why an ever so good crimefighter is now such a bad accountant, who just dumps it over the fence and says to the congregations: go and do the work that I don't want to do anymore, then I realized my cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	I remember everything I said, not as Secretary of State, but as MP in the opposition. At that time I had the pleasure of sometimes crossing swords with some of the present Members of Parliament, who then belonged to the government groups. I remember exactly. The answer to the question "can the Secretary of State remember?" So it's a yes. I remember exactly. Am I a bad accountant? Maybe I should have left it at crimefights, but I didn't. I became Secretary of State. So I also have the, I think justified, mission to make sure that the housekeeping booklet is complete as well. Have I been surprised at the contribution of the CDA Group? Yes, because I was listening with interest to Mr Oskam yesterday, I always do, but it was really a bit of a story of: we're in opposition, we're on a vacation with responsibility and figure it out, cabinet; we've forgotten everything we've proposed in the past. You can have that as your point of view. It is also a perfectly justified position, but I am a little surprised. The VVD Group and the PvdA Group are called upon and they take responsibility. I have looked again at the CDA Minister Hirsch Ballin's bill and therefore wonder what has changed within the CDA Group in four years. I haven't forgotten what I said, but I do wonder if the CDA has forgotten everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	No, we remember everything perfectly. That is why we are so enthusiastic about electronic detention, but not even at half the penalty. We can no longer explain to the people of the Netherlands that people are already freed at two thirds of the sentence, and that is unconditional. The Secretary of State just wants to release the most dangerous people at half their sentence. Furthermore, it is a problem that the accounts are incorrect. If the Secretary of State were just a crimefighter, we would have had fun! We shall come back to it in a moment that it will not be safer either. In particular, it is a problem that the Council of State says that you cannot make such a decision of principle because of a few pennies. The Secretary of State does, but it doesn't add up. That's the problem. How is the Secretary of State going to get that 16 million at all if he just dumps all this in the municipalities over the fence and doesn't even want to explain to the Chamber what costs the municipalities will have to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	I'm gonna go into the financials in detail later. Now I am still working on the introductory remarks. Once again, the CDA Group raised a fundamental objection yesterday. Turns out it's all about the money at the CDA group. That's fine. In any case, we cannot say that in the past the CDA Group had a fundamental objection to this type of proposal; there were no such objections. Yesterday, however, I did hear objections and that was new to me. It's okay. Anyone can change their point of view. I'll take notice of that, sitting in box K. However, this surprised me, certainly looking at our agreements in the Spring Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	The Lentek chord has already passed a few times. Let me just say for the sake of completeness that we did not participate in this report. The introduction of the Secretary of State surprises me. It seems to me that the most important thing is to cut 16 million and not so much the instrument of electronic detention. In our input we were mainly looking for the way you can make the whole system better. Of course there are financial components to that. I also understand that these are important. But what is the Secretary of State really about? Is it only about finance or also about electronic detention as an instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	It's both of them. In this sense, I was surprised by the input of the SGP Group. I am going to go into this in detail later, but I am already saying that the input has surprised me a little. After all, we now have a system of phasing out detention. On behalf of the CDA Group, Mr Oskam asked for two arithmetical examples of a prison sentence of eight and ten years. Let us now talk about a prison sentence of nine years, because it is easier to do the math. I understood the input of the SGP Group yesterday in such a way that it would be terrible if someone with a vi-date in the sixth year were to release someone who would have served two thirds of the nine-year sentence with electronic detention one year earlier. Apparently, the SGP Group has forgotten that we have had a system of penitentiary programmes for 15 years, in which people already have the right to be released after four and a half years. These people have been on the streets for four and a half years without any supervision or electronic detention and we do not know where they are. Apparently, for 15 years, there has been an increase in the number of people who have been irritated by the SGP Group, but who have never commented on it. Last night, for the first time, there was commentary and people hated the fact that such a person was released in the fifth year. I was somewhat surprised by that. That's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	That surprises me, because a motion has been tabled to extend those two thirds to one, as far as we are concerned. A punishment must also be a punishment. Part of it is re-socialization and reintegration, and that is excellent, because that must also be done. However, the question is how. Our point is that we might be able to see electronic detention as a good instrument, but that electronic detention should not be based on those two thirds, but on those two thirds. That is why I repeat my question as to whether the Secretary of State sec is concerned with the pennies, then we know where we stand or whether he is also concerned with electronic detention as an effective instrument for doing something. Then we can have a discussion with each other. I understand that the financial consequences of this are annoying at the present time, but these are two separate discussions for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	No, it's both my concern. I am concerned about the principles and I am concerned about the austerity. It's up to the Chamber to decide what's first. It's both my concern. There is something that surprised me in the input of the SGP Group. Last night a point was made that electronic detention took place in the fifth year, while we now know penitentiary programmes and detention phasering that begin after four and a half years. In the calculation example requested by Mr Oskam, we have been in a situation for 15 years that, after four and a half years, if he has served half of his sentence, someone is eligible for 18 months of detention. After that, the parole will begin. Last night I heard that the SGP actually went way too far, when I have never heard that party over the past 15 years about that detention phase. I ask Mr Dijkgraaf what is happening. Is the SGP a matter of principle and has the party, in the past, wrongly never been concerned about the 18-month detention phase, prior to that conditional release?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	If the Secretary of State goes to the members to inform them why they have come to a certain opinion, it will be real night work. I suggest that Mr Dijkgraaf simply asks a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	Moreover, the Chamber controls the government and not the other way around, but well, they are very relevant questions. I am surprised that the Secretary of State forgets, for example, a motion by Mr Van der Staaij which brings in such elements. We've brought that in several times. We just want a longer effective punishment. I hope that we can simply have a discussion about the money and whether an instrument is effective or not. I hear from the Secretary of State that he thinks both things are important. I think that is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	It's about the principles, the effective operation and the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	I just saw a VVD movie in which this Secretary of State is doing a judo pitch. Now I've always learned in judo that you have to move with the powers. What surprises me is that this Secretary of State has decided this evening to address almost all the groups in the vein of 'you don't remember what you said yourself'. He expressed his great surprise, but I would advise him to move a little more with the groups or at least add up to a majority in the Second and First Chambers. My group has an eye for electronic detention, but she has always said that a judge must be involved. Is the Secretary of State open to a model in which the judge is also given a role in awarding electronic detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	I checked just because I was expecting this question. What about the Spring Agreement? What were the parties thinking when it came to electronic detention? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also signed that agreement. This was about electronic detention, precisely in order to achieve that austerity, on which the cabinet can actually exercise influence. If you are dependent on a judicial decision, it could happen that the judge does not see room for electronic detention at the back for 80% of the cases. Then we will not achieve our austerity in the distance. I am not very opposed to a judge who finds something about electronic detention at the back, but that is not the original plan that has ever come up in a legislative proposal. The idea of electronic detention is also that fewer people are in prison and more people have electronic detention, combined with supervision and work instruction. If you want fewer people in the cell, not €248 per day, but with electronic detention €78, you should be able to influence that process. If you cannot influence the process, then we are all sitting here talking about a relatively dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	I think the Secretary of State falls into his own sword by addressing all Members of Parliament in an earlier position. If he wants to take us with him, he will have to listen to the arguments and look for a majority for this bill. GroenLinks said at the time that there should be a judge, and GroenLinks says so. The problem with the Secretary of State is that the VVD keeps saying that it needs to be punished harder and harder, which does not combine with the GroenLinks vision of preparing people for a return to society as best as possible. An electronic anklet can be a good part of that. So it's either-or. Or the Secretary of State is telling everyone here tonight that they see it wrong and have previously agreed to something else, which they were not aware of. Or we are all trying to debate and find a place for this. So let me ask you again: is it not possible for this State Secretary to be given a directing role or is this State Secretary prepared to consider how a judge could be given a role in electronic detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	Let me first answer all the questions raised by Members. After three minutes of debate, let me not say what the cabinet's position is on this matter. Mrs. Van Tongeren quite rightly points out that I have to look for majorities. This does not have to be done in this Chamber; I must of course look for majorities here, but as I have heard the contributions of the political groups, there is a majority in this Chamber for this proposal. However, there is no majority in the Chamber on the other side. That is a fair observation, and I do see that problem. So I have to convince this Chamber, and I must hope that I will convince the MPs across the street as well. However, if inconsistencies are pointed out on the part of this Chamber, the cabinet must respond to them. I wasn't fired from that responsibility. A debate doesn't just mean lying on your back and looking for majorities. A debate also means exchanging views. That's how I take it. It's part of judo, too. You're not gonna lie on the mat right now. You try to make the pitch and then move a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	Could you show me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	I'd like to show you that, Mr. Chairman. I think it's a party to do that to Mrs Van Tongeren, but we don't have the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	I have a very large floor at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	I've been jingling for years. I'd be happy to throw this Secretary of State on the floor once.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	That sounds like a challenge!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	To my mind, that's happened a few times. But we're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	I would very much like to move on to your first real substance block, the "forehang" block. Are you done with the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm really just getting started. You allow a lot of interruptions. Rightly so; we have a good debate. But it takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	The Secretary of State made it seem a little like in the system we now know people go out unguided. Why does the Secretary of State want to put that image so badly when it just isn't? Look at the recidivism figures provided by the Justice Department itself. The recidivism rate in prison is 36%. As there are more freedoms, you get less recidivism. In the bbi it is 27%, in electronic detention 22%. That's already low, you think. But with the facilities that the Secretary of State now wants to close and the penitentiary program with which he stops, it's around 10%. That's weird, isn't it? We want to see less recidivism. Yet it stops exactly what generates the best figures. In doing so, the Secretary of State will create the image as if we were to leave all those people unguided out and we had no control over them. I think we're doing very well. We have very low rates of relapse. The Secretary of State doesn't want to see that. No, he'd like to put out the picture that electronic detention is better than what we're doing right now. However, the recidivism figures show something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	I know, however, that the long-term recurrent figures, which Mr van der Steur rightly referred to last night, are rising. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that very well. Those figures are up to 75%. So if you've been in prison, it's not going to be that successful at all. Long-term success is not so great for people who have been in the bbi and the zbbi. You can do a bit of trickery with repeated figures, but in the end it is a question of who we will get back over a period of ten to fifteen years. Not only have I drawn attention to the fact that we are not very successful in this. During this cabinet period we have not been so successful. There has been a slight reduction of some percentage over a number of years. Long-term, however, the TBS system is a much better system than the prison system. We all know that. As far as people who end up in the TBs are concerned, we are very successful. That doesn't apply to the prison system. You might want to cut that up and see it apart, but you have to see the prison system in its entirety, of course. Not everyone is of course eligible for placement in a bbi or a zbbi. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that too; I do not have to explain that to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	That is exactly why we stumbled when this Secretary of State also shut down TBs. The strange thing is that we get the recidivism figures from the Ministry itself. These figures show that as people have more freedoms, the relapse decreases. The nice thing is that the Secretary of State said last time that this is because we select those people so well; it is a special group that is well motivated. Exactly! Then don't throw it away now! Don't flush it through the well, but make sure you keep this group standing. After all, these penitentiary programmes and that final phase of detention phaseing prove to be successful. But no, the Secretary of State wants electronic detention and therefore a higher repeat rate, as shown by the figures we have received from the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	I have listened to Mrs Van Toorenburg and I do not think I agree with her. I note, however, that we are promoting and demolishing what we are connecting to each other, and with electronic detention we are working on changing behaviour. I also note that outside prison there is always work, training and behavioral interventions. In this context, I would also refer to the letter sent to the Chamber by the three parole organizations last week. These organisations have confidence in the electronic detention bill, as it lays the basis for ultimately giving hands and feet to behavior change. Figures on behavioural change interventions show that this is not yet working optimally. So we will have to make a change. The multiannual relapse rates are between 63 and 75. We are talking about multiannual recidivism, so we are looking at a longer period of time. We will therefore have to consider whether we can find a different form than the current phase of detention in order to achieve better results. I also understand that staying outside the prison with electronic detention costs less than regular detention. Even with electronic detention with a meaningful daily use as we want to introduce it now, so everything about it, supervision and supervision by probation, you still lose much less money. The question is therefore whether the austerity objective determines the design of electronic detention. And yes, I think it's about the moment when the influx into electronic detention should be possible. An important question, which was raised yesterday by the CDA Group, is when you have to allow that influx into electronic detention. Do you have to do that like this with detention phase, so 18 or 12 months before parole? Or should you do so only at the time of conditional release, as Mr Schouw and others raised?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	I am standing here because Madeleine van Toorenburg from the CDA has asked a fantastic question to which Secretary of State Teeven has not answered. So I'm just gonna ask that question one more time. The relapse rates at the ZBIs, the highly secure facilities, are extremely low. Excuse me, Zbbis are very limited security facilities, thank you to Mrs Van Toorenburg for noticing this. The recidivism rate for the ZBIs is 15 while for electronic detention it is 22. However, the Secretary of State now intends to introduce electronic detention. Why don't you answer that for once? Why does the Secretary of State close the ZBIs?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	For two reasons. First of all... I think that with electronic detention prior to conditional release, we have a system that allows us to influence the detainee's behavior better than we are doing at the moment with the BBIs and the ZBIs, also in view of the multi-annual recidivism. Second. The austerity target is reached earlier when you introduce electronic detention with a number of accessories. That's considerably cheaper than housing in a bbi or a zbbi.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	"I think": that's exactly where the crux is. Because the numbers don't lie about it. We know the ZBBIs are working. That's what the Secretary of State's own figures show. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State closes down the ZBIs and introduces something he thinks might work, but we already know that after two years the relapse rates are higher. That's what the Secretary of State does, just to cut a few million dollars. And this while we know that if you delay parole any longer, prisoners will have to sit longer. This is also in the bill. This is going to cost more, so it is still doubtful whether the austerity option will be reached at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	We think that's a good way to do it. We have also widely shared this with each other in the master plan. Let us be clear that in a world in which the cabinet would have more money electronic detention could be integrated into conditional release. I agree with Mr Schouw, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Bisschop. The first phase of the conditional release period would also be a period of electronic detention. At least that is how I understood Mr Schouw yesterday and that is how I read his proposals. However, I do not have that much money, and there will not be any. So I have to look for ways to save expensive detention capacity. With electronic detention that can enter, I say explicitly 'can', because the inmate must earn it after having received half of the sentence imposed, expensive detention capacity will be saved. That is precisely where the centre of gravity of the cuts lies. Mr Oskam asked questions yesterday about his calculation examples in his first term. I don't assume eight and ten years, but choose nine years. That is a slightly clearer calculation example, precisely between the two examples of Mr Oskam. The inmate with nine years in prison is eligible under the current system after four and a half years for placement in a restricted secure facility with monthly weekend leave. In the current situation, he may also enter a very limited security facility with weekly weekend leave. If five years of the sentence has been served, the person concerned shall be eligible in the current situation for general leave or for participation in a penitentiary programme of up to one year if he is not staying in a bbi or a zbbi. In the case of a penitentiary program in the current situation, the person concerned resides outside the penitentiary facility and is a limited part of the time, often a third, under electronic supervision. This is not an electronic monitoring which includes work and guidance, but in that sense it is a bare penitentiary programme at the moment. After six years of punishment, the person concerned is eligible for conditional release, unless there are grounds for doing so. With the introduction of this bill, the penitentiary leave and the penitentiary program disappear. An inmate with a nine-year sentence may be eligible for electronic detention after five years of imprisonment, which is even more so than in the old situation, because after four and a half years you may already be eligible for another regime. That's always up to a year before the date of parole. I think I have also answered the question put by Mrs Helder in her first term. In that calculation example, with a penalty of nine years, you have up to twelve months of electronic detention prior to the date of vi. Unlike in detention phase, the influx into electronic detention is not automatic, as the inmate must earn it by good behavior. Participation in electronic detention is also not at all non-binding as opposed to the current phase of detention, which is non-binding. In addition, you can make other choices. The participant in electronic detention resides in society, but is bound by far-reaching restrictions on his freedom of movement, is subject to electronic supervision and is also subject to electronic supervision. We have already shared this with each other; Mr Marcouch and Mr Van der Steur asked for it under supervision and under the supervision of the probation. Electronic detention will allow for work on behavioural change and will be combined as much as possible with meaningful activities of the person concerned in the form of work, training, participation in behavioural interventions and other meaningful forms of daily spending. This could also be voluntary work for the general good, such as the maintenance of monuments and that sort of thing. Participation in electronic detention offers opportunities for the person concerned. However, if he does not seize it, his participation will be terminated and he will return to prison. This also makes the stay outside the facility part of the detention and reintegration plan. This is not only non-binding; it also refers to a focus on changing behaviour and the taking of personal responsibility by inmates.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	Is this the end of the block with the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	My proposal is to finish this before asking questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	As a result, the legislative proposal can also make a good contribution to the reduction of recidivism. Yesterday, all the spokesmen indicated that they wanted me to guarantee that electronic detention could contribute to the reduction of recidivism. As far as I am concerned, there was sometimes an almost mythical effect on the existing phase of detention. The cabinet does not see convincing evidence that the implementation of detention phase-out is making a substantial contribution in the longer term to the reduction of recidivism, once again, in the longer term. The detention phase in its present form has been in place for a long time, while the recidivism of ex-convicts has been unacceptable all along. That was also the opinion of a large number of political groups. Only over the last five years has the recidivism been somewhat declining and, in my opinion, it is because of the personal approach taken by this cabinet and previous cabinets and by addressing a detainee on his own responsibility for successful reintegration. This is now one of the main pillars of the government's policy of sanctions. The current method of phasing out detention is therefore, in my opinion, a dead end if you look at the long term, but there will be no change in the efforts in the field of reintegration. We will continue to invest in troublesome customers and non-customers, and proven effective interventions to reduce relapse will be maintained. However, we will look even more closely than before at which behavioural interventions should be maintained. To conclude, I would like to point out that in the past I had strong doubts about the implementation of electronic detention. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already mentioned this. As it can now be completed and designed, I also support it. It is at the end of the sentence; after the expiry of two thirds of the sentence period it is, in the opinion of the Cabinet, a useful alternative to imprisonment in prison. It can also be a good tool for gradual, safe and guided return to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	The Secretary of State says again what he thinks is going to happen. In 2008, he thought, on the basis of a report from the Sanction Application Inspection, that the risk of recurrence in people with electronic detention is higher than in people who have just been detained. He says it's about the passage at the bottom of page 23. The CDA is generally in agreement with this VVD Secretary of State when it comes to making the Netherlands safer. However, if we share the view that even the phase of detention can improve, why does he create the image as if it were a much better one than the other? Why don't we see if we can put that together? People in a half-open facility don't just walk out. There's fences around it. If they behave properly, they can take leave. They're being controlled for drugs. They're being checked for where they're going and they're being checked to see if they've been there. If they didn't do it right, they just won't get leave. If they prove that for a very long time, they're going into the next phase. Do not let the Secretary of State present the picture that people are released earlier at the moment, in society rather than with these plans, because that is not the case. Can we see how we can put that together? The SP has made a good proposal, which maintains phase-out and looks at how we can do something about electronic detention, so that we may make society safer with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	That's what I started with in my answer. That could be a very workable model, if it were not for substantial savings. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's We shared this with each other in the discussion of the master plan. I have already said that this means that you have to exchange detention days for electronic detention with a good lead to work and study and a way to get back into society. I would also like to look for a solution, but there has to be savings somewhere. If you do not want to close more establishments, you should see if you can in any way fill in the other work. This is also important for the work-to-work principle. I don't see how I can cut back if I leave everything as it is. Mr Schouw's proposal goes even further. He says that we should only start working with electronic detention from the moment of conditional release. I'm not gonna cut anything, but I'm gonna have to put money on it. That's the other side of the story. I am not saying that Mr Schouw is making bad proposals, but they do assume room in the budget, and the current budget does not offer that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	But some things you just can't do and this is one of those. There is no way that you can still put large posters in the municipal elections that the VVD does not cut back on security and that more punishment and more attention will be paid to victims. I don't know exactly what the slogan was like. We cannot tell each other that we send people home with an anklet after half the penalty period, because we do not have the courage to find other ways to cover the costs. The CDA Group will not support this proposal. It's very simple. I really think we should come up with a system that will make it safer. Perhaps we should improve the phase of detention with electronic detention. That whole battery of fine plans that prison directors had planned to cut back, when the Secretary of State hadn't said he was going to cut even more, the Secretary of State breaks down. It's not gonna be safer. That is why we cannot support this proposal. Can the Secretary of State really make an effort to see how we can get together?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mrs Van Toorenburg should not pretend that we are not letting the people out sooner. Now it is also the case with the detention phase that people return to society earlier. We've been doing that for a long time, but it doesn't deliver optimal results. Mrs Van Toorenburg must be realistic in this. I just outlined that we've been doing this for a long time. If we still have multi-annual relapse rates between 63 and 75, you have to think about how to work more successfully. It's one thing and another. We need to improve the system and increase safety. We're not that successful in prison. That's the way it is. That shows the facts and the hard figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	It's still a little bit of magic with numbers. His own figures show that the ZBBIs have a much lower recurrence, but that aside. I have a very good proposal to which Mrs Van Toorenburg also referred. We could keep the detention phase, but also see if we can complement it with electronic detention. With that, I do not completely dismiss the bill and meet the proposal of the prison directors and the group works councils to introduce night detention with electronic detention as austerity. At the time, this was a hand-out by the prison directors and the works councils to make the destruction plan of the prison system a little less difficult. Now we make a good proposal, and the Secretary of State shoots it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	I am not shooting anything at all, because we are still at the beginning of tonight's exchange of views. The cabinet has not yet expressed any intention on the part of the Chamber. We're not firing anything. I only note that the proposal does not allow me to achieve the cuts that the cabinet considers desirable. We calculated it and shared it with each other as a result of the master plan. It has to come from the length or width. We have said that we are completing the master plan and that we are not going to close more institutions. That's what I promised the Chamber, so I'll stick to it. However, we have a constantly falling number of prisoners. Mrs Kooiman asked another question about this. She thought I should take back the whole story about more personnel than prisoners. I've been looking at the numbers again, and it's true. There's been a continuous decline in prisoners relative to personnel. We're only about 1,700 prisoners away from the moment there are fewer prisoners than guards and guards, while you also need other people. So we have a different situation and the expectation is that we will have fewer and fewer prisoners in the coming years. In this sense, expectations of the master plan have become even worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	It is good that the Secretary of State is trying to challenge me, indicating that he counted the head office for those figures for convenience. However, let me stick to the point where I started my interruption, namely my proposal. The Secretary of State says he doesn't shoot this by definition. Then I expect him to take a good look at my proposal and pass it on. I have tabled another amendment, namely not to restrict conditional release, so that people are not stuck for unnecessarily long. That will also lead to savings. I'm just thinking along. So I think Secretary of State can embrace my proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	I'll comment on them all in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	After this wave of interruptions, let us try to help the Secretary of State. There really is money to be found, even within his ministry. I would like to mention two quotes from the General Court of Auditors. In 2007 we spent €300 per day per young person on treatment at youth tbs, in 2012 it had risen to €563 per day. That's 1.2 million per young person for six years of treatment. According to another quote, no less than 80% of the young people who were released from treatment in 2000 came back into contact with the police within ten years. Then you draw the conclusion, and that's what experts have done... that no one knows if youth-tbs works. If you know it's not gonna work, try and find some money there. It costs 1.2 million per young person for six years of treatment that you don't know is working, while you're trying to raking in 16 million with electronic detention, which really doesn't work better for society's security. Does the Secretary of State want to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	I have to deal with the situation that, at the moment, there are fewer prison sentences and fewer measures imposed on young people, as well as on adults, by judges. At the moment, I am also dealing with the new situation of under-employment in the judicial youth establishments. That is one of the reasons why a number of juvenile judicial institutions have been closed down in the master plan, even to the great sorrow of some members of the parliamentary groups. At the moment there is much more underemployment in judicial youth establishments. It is already the case that fewer prison sentences are imposed on young people, as well as on adults. That could have all kinds of causes. There are many reasons for this. There is an autonomous reduction of 30% in crime in all the Member States of the European Union, including the Netherlands. Judges impose fewer prison sentences for certain crimes, including juveniles. On the so-called ZSM table, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also doing more outside the courts. As a result, the parole board is making a greater use of community service, for example, which puts the budget of the parole board under pressure on that point. You can see that less jail time is imposed. I will therefore have to make savings in this area and possibly move on to new measures in relation to young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	This will allow for a little less money to be raised than we thought, but that is without prejudice to the huge increase in the cost of day-to-day treatment, when we know that it does not work. The fact that it is imposed less is without prejudice to the fact that the costs have become much higher. There is perhaps something to get there, even if it is less than we have just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	But with young people, you always try to take a step further. That is also a wish of the majority of the Chamber. You don't want to give up already in a very early phase, in the beginning of someone's career that you don't want. There is a need to treat young people, sometimes even more so than adults, and not just to lock them up. I believe that this has been the wish of a majority in the Chamber for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	The first block has clarified a lot. The conclusion may be that we are doing this because of the money. A saving must be found. In order to achieve that saving, the Secretary of State must be able to turn the buttons to bring 800 people a year under electronic detention. Does the Secretary of State now rule out the possibility that the savings can be higher than this 16 million because apparently there is another bill coming out of some kind of Breukelen consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	We shared with each other during the last general consultation that there are still a number of cuts coming. I also said during that general consultation that I do not want to break the master plan that we discussed with each other, so we are not now looking for the closure of more establishments and the rejection of more establishments, with even more people who need to be accompanied from work to work, but that we are looking at how we can implement these cuts in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	Does the Secretary of State agree with my group that the current bill makes it possible for the State Secretary to even make it very easy for him to turn certain buttons so that more money can be generated from the organisation? Now 800 people are assumed, but that could also be 1,000 or 2,000. Then we'll save even more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	No, I don't think this is possible. The border is at 800. By changing some inflow criteria, we could increase the number, but we are also dealing with a multiannual estimate by the Ministry of Justice, the so-called PMJ estimate. This shows that the decline in the number of prisoners will continue in the coming years. We do not yet have the minimum number of 9 500. This number is expected to continue in the coming years. This means that the pool of people from which we can draw for the imposition of electronic detention is also considerably smaller. So I see no way of actually imposing electronic detention on more people than the 800 now mentioned. Ms Helder, Mr Van der Steur and Mr Schouw asked whether the detailed conditions for the application of electronic detention should be laid down in a General Administrative Measure or in the law itself, and whether an AMvB should not at least be pre-established in the Chamber. I would like to point out that it is not unusual in the system of the current Penitentiary Principles Act that further conditions are laid down in a General Measure of Management. This is already the case, for example, with the penitentiary programme, which is part of the detention phase. This model has also been followed for the design of the current law. In my opinion, the law should not be burdened with this, at least that is the position that we have always held together, with detailed rules on the application and execution of electronic detention. I do not foresee that I will have to change the AMvB in terms of the number of excluded categories of detainees. For all categories of detainees now excluded from electronic detention in the concept of the General Measure of Governance, good substantive reasons are given on the basis of which they cannot participate in electronic detention. By the way, I say to Mr Schouw that I have no objection to providing for a suspension procedure, if that is necessary. Furthermore, the extent to which electronic detention contributes to the achievement of the recurrent target has been questioned. The strategy we follow is a combination of three things: deterrent, incapacitation and re-socialization. In other words, do not dare to repeat, cannot repeat and do not want to repeat. In my view, these are the three things that must be met if we want to be successful. By following a personal approach and actually controlling what someone does during the time he is outside the facility, it becomes clear which points a prisoner should work on during his detention in order to maximise the chances of a successful return. The prisoner will be screened upon entry. The Action Lines are set out in a detention and reintegration plan. The prisoner is also assigned a mentor. If necessary, he will receive additional support for return activities. An inmate will also be more addressed on his own responsibility. The good guidance during the period of electronic detention is very important for the successful return to society. This period, as well as the period of regular detention, should be used to the maximum for resocialisation. We have been asked what we can think of in return activities. Thought can be given to the learning of social skills, work instruction, debt restructuring, encouraging self-reliance and increasing self-discipline. The same applies, moreover, to the use of outpatient forensic care. That was also discussed in the exchange of documents. I believe that Mr Bishop of the SGP Group spoke about this yesterday, as did Mr Van der Steur. It was then about combating drug and alcohol addiction. Behavioral interventions can also be used. For all these activities, as with regular detention, there is a need for careful diagnosis. This is about the contribution that could actually be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	On this point, we fully agree with the Secretary of State, which I would almost like to emphasise. It is, however, remarkable that the Council of State says that all those things that the Secretary of State now mentions are already in those penitentiary programmes that are the responsibility of people to make some of them, that motivation, that it is not addicted. So why stop doing that when it's all in there and pretending you'd take more account of motivation now? Isn't that the best thing you've done with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	No, we didn't settle that fantasticly, because the penitentiary programs are now based on 18 or 12 months and the influx of penitentiary programs is to a large extent determined by the time to go. So that determines to a large extent whether someone enters a penitentiary program. In that penitentiary program, just as dependent on whether you are in the bbi or the zbbi, so monthly or weekly leave is also possible without checking out what you are doing outside at that time. So that is a completely uncontrolled leave situation. Furthermore, at the moment inside that facility, it is not checked whether someone is eligible for placement in a bbi or a zbbi. Then the question is whether you show good behavior is, of course, not everything. We are now proposing a system of promotion and degradation. This allows you to do so during the period within the p.i. better assess whether an inmate is sufficiently self-reliant and whether the inmate has shown sufficient development. That is better organised in the model that we are now in favour of than in the model that we currently have within the penitentiary program. There is more freedom in this, both in terms of the influx and in terms of the progress of the engagements. So we are taking them out by abolishing this phase of detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	I am really sorry that the Secretary of State has this picture. I have been a prison director for ten years and have worked for many years with a closed, half-open and open set-up of penitentiary programs. That was no different than watching: is someone motivated, has he behaved well, has he ever used drugs, goes to work, wants to participate in a program, is he going to take all kinds of courses? Those are the criteria, but what you often stumbled upon was that at the time someone was using or that someone didn't feel like participating in anything, you had to send a huge piece of paper to the Justice Department to get that someone back in another phase. Then go fix it! You can make sure that you can only phase through when people are motivated, when you're on top of it. Fantastic establishments do that. Don't throw that away!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	We're not so far apart, I'm almost starting to believe. But what separates us is the cold abolition of phase-in detention and the cold introduction of electronic detention and not the search for a warm model that hangs in between. But we are not yet at the end of the debate, so let's see where we can go after I explain everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	Very briefly, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	Then I am glad that Mrs Van Toorenburg is happy. Then we'll all be a little happy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	What a party, but now we are. I have heard the Secretary of State say: I am not going to change the AMvB where it concerns the category of detainees eligible for electronic detention. This means that you will not change the category of prisoners not eligible for electronic detention. So it remains as it stands in the legislative proposal. I would like to quote from the Acts a quote from Mr Van der Steur: No electronic detention for perpetrators of violent and sexual crimes and for perpetrators of crimes in which victims are to be regretted and survivors. Mr Van der Steur's question was that the Secretary of State intends to include these conditions in an AMvB? However, if you read the explanatory statement, prisoners convicted of serious violent crimes will be eligible for electronic detention, as they are not excluded. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State does not meet the VVD in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	I am going to answer all these questions, but let us be clear: in this system we have linked the promotion and degradation. So we're also looking at the behavior of someone in the hospital. So we're also looking at how someone is doing. I would point out that even now there are people who can be placed in a bbi or a zbbi eighteen months before committing a life crime. Even now, the situation is no different than that it could become later. Only, the only difference is that it now depends on the time limit preceding the vi and that it will soon depend on the assessment of someone within the p.i. walls.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	But it's still all possible. Maybe it gets a little less bad or a little less good, depending on how you want to look at it and which side of the spectrum you're on. Honestly, I don't like the answer to this again. I am therefore very curious whether the next block, for which it would be eligible, will perhaps be a little better. So I'm not happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	I cannot follow Mrs Helder's story at all on this point. I don't understand what she means. We get a situation where we control and screen people better and don't let it depend on the deadline. What we do not do, however, is abolish detention phase, let nothing come back and just let people sit around until the door opens and then stop looking at them. We don't. I believe that this is a link that still exists today between the government and the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	Now we're getting to a point I've been interested in for a while. The Secretary of State says we're not just gonna let someone sit around until the doors open and this person gets completely unprepared in society. Then can the Secretary of State outline the criminal career of a difficult customer, a no-gooder, for example someone with a low IQ or an aggression problem coming in? The first step is he says he doesn't want to share a cell, he goes into solitary and it goes on like this. In the system of promotion and degradation, this person will never be promoted, and so, if I understand correctly, never get guidance for his problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'll come back to it in great detail. There is no doubt whatsoever that this group of people who show bad behavior will be left unsatisfied at all, those guardians or fellow inmates who are unmotivated, I shall be speaking out for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	If the Secretary of State does so, could it be considered that not everything is the responsibility of the person? It's hard to do something about a low-level IQ. You may have chosen an addiction once, but if you're in that problem, you're gonna have to have help with that. As I hear the Secretary of State right now, it's all his own fault, big bump. So perhaps that can also be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	Sure, sure. I shall go into this in detail in a moment, because many questions have been asked about it. I know that you, Mr. Chairman, would like us to work in cubes. That is why I come first to the question of the relationship with conditional release. A lot of words were devoted to that last night. Why should we not allow electronic detention to take place at the time of conditional release or even later? That was noted by the SGP Group last night. As I said, participation in electronic detention is not a right for all prisoners, but it must be earned. So for that fifth year, you can earn that, but it's not a right. With good behavior and by efforts during the detention period, what took place in the four preceding years on the basis of that calculation example of nine years? The prisoner must show that he is also willing to invest in himself. Then he's eligible for ED, and otherwise he's not. So he can return to society sooner. The participation in electronic detention thus offers the person concerned opportunities, but if he does not seize them, then without the intervention of the judge he must also raise a question about this..... back to prison....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Apart from the exceptions provided for in Article 15d, conditional release shall apply to all detainees, at least if the sentence is of a certain duration. In a number of cases, conditional release may be postponed or may not continue at all, for example if the person concerned has behaved badly in detention or is extremely limited in his or her commitment to preparing for return to society and as a result his or her conditional release cannot be regulated and regulated by conditions. Then the question arises: why is it so important that persons who have been detained for a long time should be released with conditions and supervision? This question also raised Mrs Van Tongeren. Experience has shown that prisoners who return to society without supervision and supervision are, in any case, committing criminal offences more often, I say to Mrs Helder. In the context of the vi, we can monitor whether ex-cons can behave freely. With the conditional release, everyone is eligible "unless." So it's a "yes, unless" arrangement. I know that the SGP Group felt differently in 2008. However, we now have a "yes, unless" arrangement. It came into the law in 2008. A vi-regulation thus offers the person concerned opportunities, but if he does not seize them, he must return to prison with the intervention of the judge............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the moment, I find it undesirable to go back to a system in which prisoners are not subject to parole, except for a few exceptions. I didn't hear a majority of the Chamber say that last night either. If the exceptions are strictly formulated in such a system, then the situation that Mrs Van Tongeren is right to draw attention to will arise. In that case, many prisoners will not be released until the sentence has been served in full. Then you can no longer impose any conditions at all and then no probation supervision is possible at all, except in very exceptional cases. However, following the debate on the release of Volkert van der G. at the explicit request of the VVD Group, I undertook to investigate this matter with the WODC. That's what we're doing. Experience has shown that prisoners returning to society without supervision and supervision are more likely to commit criminal offences. That is the case anyway. In my opinion, therefore, the abandonment of conditional release for many prisoners is not good for preventing the recurrence of the crime. That is also the position of the cabinet. The question that precedes it is whether in the year preceding the trial, we should specifically discuss the possibility of electronic detention. I would like to say the following to Mr Dijkgraaf. "No vi, unless', i.e. a "no, unless' scheme, also has significant financial consequences due to the increased seizure of detention capacity. Then you have to keep a lot more people in cells, at €248 per day. This could only be avoided by adjusting the length of prison sentences to be imposed by the judge downwards. That could be a system with which you correct that. Such an effect on the measurement of penalties is also extremely undesirable. So I do not want to interfere with the main thrust of the conditional release scheme. I would add, however, that it must be possible to postpone or refrain from conditional release if the person concerned is not involved or has a very limited commitment to preparing for the return to society. These are other criteria, as I say to Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Kooiman, than those we apply to the application of ED. In addition, you must have a positive impact. In the case of conditional release, there is another criterion, which really is different. I believe that, in the light of the comments made by Mrs Van Tongeren, I am now trying to reach out to the Green Left Group in any case to the regulation that she envisages. Furthermore, I did not hear the SGP Group speak last night about the large amount of money that is being put on the funds if you are going to organise it differently and so leave people longer than the time of conditional release. Yesterday, Mrs Helder asked me why the government considered the accumulation of conditions acceptable, but not in the event of a conditional conviction and conditional release. In that regard, it considered that there was a discrepancy. The conditional conviction and the conditional release could involve the simultaneous running of different probation periods and different conditions. That is what we wanted to avoid when the new VI scheme was put in place in 2008. Electronic detention and conditional release do not involve such a similar coincidence. There is continuity: first a period of electronic detention of up to 12 months and then the period of conditional release. I think it is important that the phase of electronic detention and the phase of conditional release are well aligned. This may mean that the conditions attached to electronic detention are fulfilled during the VI period. That is what I am saying to Mr Dijkgraaf. So you could attach conditions to electronic detention, and allow it to continue to motivate people, so that you can lead them to work and study. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Institutions, both of whom have a separate responsibility for electronic detention and the Public Prosecutor's Office for conditional release, will have to coordinate this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	Is this the end of a block?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	Sure. That was about parole and electronic detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	I thank the Secretary of State for that explanation. The question raised by the PVV Group was mainly prompted by the following. When is the last phase of detention now? From then on, you would be calculating for entering electronic detention. That's why I asked that question. In the past, it has been said that we should not stack conditions. Now I hear that these conditions are not the same and can therefore possibly go together, which means that the end of the prison sentence is really only the last part, and not half of two thirds. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	In the calculation example of nine years, the first moment of electronic detention is in the fifth year. Then someone's been inside for four years. Such electronic detention shall be subject to conditions. We must keep to certain things and bear witness to self-reliance. For example, work or voluntary spending of time must be dealt with. It may be that this continuation takes place during the conditional release period, i.e. during the conditional release period, which then starts at the end of the sixth year and continues for three years until the nine years are full. That is not to stack conditions; that is, in fact, to allow the conditions to continue on a temporary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	After the start of this debate, I am glad that the memory is back: as early as 2008 it was 'no, if' and here it was 'yes, unless'. The Secretary of State is right to say that it costs money. We are well aware of this, which is why we are always adding money to our electoral programmes, which the Secretary of State did not mind at all at the time. Probably not at this time either, but that has to be realized. That brings me to the next question. I taste a bit through the Secretary of State's speech: I would like to, but I just don't have the money. It costs money, and the Secretary of State has just been instructed to make cuts. The Secretary of State says that it can go into effect after two thirds, but yes, it costs money and doesn't make any money.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	That is a correct observation. That is what Mr Schouw said in his contribution to the first term. If you don't allow electronic detention until the date of the conditional release and you start checking someone, you'll let someone in Mr. Oskam's calculation example sit in intramural for six years first. Then he's in jail. Only in the seventh year, at the time of conditional release, do you actually do a little more on top of the current situation. You then keep 'electronic supervision' in the period of conditional release, because that is what this is called in that context. That happens now and then, but not always. Sometimes it happens with penalties imposed on addicts. That does not, however, include this bill. This bill contains something that the SGP Group has never been so concerned about until last night, namely that the penitentiary programmes are being abolished. The non-committality of the moment of entry is determined by the time that passes before the conditional release. There is now something binding about this, namely electronic detention. That's why I was a little surprised. My eyes are getting sharper now. The examples of last night's SGP Group and Mr Schouw cost money and therefore do not yield money.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	I invite the Secretary of State to say that it is not only possible, but that he would want to. That is what I hear in the words of the Secretary of State. Then you would also have a nice build-up: six years just intramural and a transition with electronic detention. He says, however, that this cannot be done because he does not have the money for it. He must therefore do something else and let this go from those two thirds, because otherwise it will not yield any money.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	I shall now return to the small-scale debate with Mrs Van Toorenburg. She has just brought out the good things about what she sees as a detention phase. It may indeed be important to look at the people during the period they are inside. There are people who behave well and want to make more efforts than others. You could see if at the end of the fifth year you can do something with those people in the calculation example of nine years. So this can be very sensible and then the knife cuts on both sides. People who behave well in the institution and want to make something of their lives can then go outside in the sixth year with electronic detention. To people who don't want to do that at all, Mrs Van Tongeren asked about those people, you say they should just sit for the sixth year. In the seventh year of parole, you're gonna look at what you're gonna do to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	As I said in my first term, the SP is not in favour of restricting conditional release. Because you lock people up behind a door for longer. It is precisely the unmotivated bad guys who will not be released at all, which means that you won't have a stick behind the door as soon as they return to society. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	I am not doing that in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	The law states that the conditional release may be postponed or omitted altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	It already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	That seems to me to be an unwise decision with a view to re-socialization and the fight against repeated violence. In any case, I think it would be useful for the Secretary of State to explain or calculate how much it will cost the State. If you lock people up longer, put them behind the door longer, it'll only cost a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	Who am I to say that there is a mistake in thinking here? However, I do not think something is right in this line of thinking. The people we give a chance to with electronic detention in the sixth year are those who have shown good behavior in the institution. So they want it. They want to move forward with their lives. At least this is demonstrated by the behaviour within the facility. They certainly do not show any bad behaviour; let me put it first. If people show that they are functioning properly during electronic detention, they will not be subject to conditional release at all. If people have played well "played well," I shall have that wording used once in the first five years of intramural detention, in the establishment, and on the basis of which they are eligible for electronic detention in the sixth year, is it logical that in the seventh year, when they are released on a conditional basis, you should have consequences for them if they are completely out of control during electronic detention? So we are doing exactly what the groups of the SGP and the VVD have pointed out, because in such cases we will be turning our backs in the seventh year. Those people were given a chance. As Mr Marcouch said, we are giving these people a chance. Those people go out in the sixth year and have the opportunity to study, to work or to work for the common good if there is no paid work available. If these people don't take the chance outside, the government will have consequences for conditional release. That seems to me to be a logical idea from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	Yeah, but that's not what we're talking about. We are talking about limiting that conditional release, including for unmotivated people. I want a stick behind the door for the moment it goes wrong. That's all I care about. With the introduction of the possibility to keep people locked up longer, there are consequences for the finances. I ask a very simple question: how much extra is this going to cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	Then we need to know exactly what we are talking about. We have people who are not eligible for electronic detention because they do not behave in any way. They remain the full period in the p.i. Sit down. In the calculation example of nine years they are in for six years. Then we'll have the parole. These people have nothing to do with the rule that the bill creates the opportunity for. After all, they haven't had an ED. They've been inside for six years. So nothing changes for them. They only have to do with the existing rules on conditional release. Then we have a group of people who do it all very well. This rule doesn't bother them either. The people who suffer from what Mrs Kooiman is referring to are the people who have had the chance of ED, but who in the sixth year, when they are outside, make a mess of it for all kinds of reasons. In the seventh year we will say: this has consequences for conditional release. We do not do this in an existing penitentiary program. There, people can do all kinds of things in the sixth year without having consequences for conditional release. You've got to make a big deal out of it if you don't want to go out in the seventh year. That is what we are changing in this bill. So it only affects a very limited group of prisoners. It only affects people who get ED and who in the sixth year, outside, do nothing and do nothing that we thought they would in the five previous years. So it's about the people who consciously choose to make a mess of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	For the people at home: ED is electronic detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'm trying again to figure out what's going on for the first four or five years. According to the proposal, you have to earn your privileges. What happens to people who come in and just aren't able to make anything yet? The Secretary of State assumes that everyone can make a conscious choice, including people with an addiction, an aggression problem or a low IQ. In my contribution, I have given the figures of people with mental problems. How do we deal with this in the new system for the first three or four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	Of course, we already have people staying in the penitentiary psychiatric centers (ppcs). We treat these people when they're intramural. We will not leave these people to their fate. If you have unwanted behavior in the five years preceding the sixth year, it does not mean that it can never be right again. Sometimes someone first shows unwanted behavior and later, after a correction, it works fine. It's not like we give up people who do something wrong once. We are certainly trying to get people in the institution on the right track. We want to ensure that they show behavior that benefits. We're just gonna keep doing that. People with psychiatric problems are in the PCs right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	That's certainly not 60% of the prisoners. The reports say that 60% have a psychological problem and not necessarily a psychiatric one. Right now, people can work. Until recently, there was just a day program. That's all coming out. In the worst case scenario, people can spend the last four years in prison for 22 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	No, people who want to work can work in our proposals. People who cannot work, but want to, must be helped as best we can. And then there's people who don't want to work. They no longer have the right to work. The people who come to work now and then sit with their arms over each other, while they are very well able to do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	We have just heard Mrs Van Toorenburg. She's got experience with this. Why should this promotion and degradation be introduced if we are already doing it? If nothing changes, it doesn't need to be entered, so something changes. This Secretary of State needs to make a cut. If everyone is helped just as hard, how will they be cut? What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u97	It is what Mrs Van Tongeren says: it is en-en. Within the institution we are dealing with people. That leads to good behavior or unwelcome behavior. In addition, there are people who are difficult to change because they have mental and/or psychiatric problems. Following time, this leads to ED or not; in some people it does and in others it does not. Eventually, it may or may not lead to conditional release. In the current system, it will almost always lead to conditional release. At least that is the case in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u98	I suggest we go to block five.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u99	Members have asked questions about meaningful daily spending. Mr Van der Steur and Mr Marcouch asked what I meant by that. This actually meets the demands of the Van der Steur/Marcouch motion, Mr Van der Steur asked. Shouldn't the proposal be that you should have any meaningful work at all, around 40 hours a week? I would like to summarize Mr Van der Steur's questions. The aim is to maximise the use of the period of electronic detention for successful return to society. It is also very important that I agree with Mr Van der Steur and Mr Marcouch that prisoners also have a useful daily use during electronic detention. This is why sensible daily spending is all about reintegration and, as I say in the direction of Mr van der Steur, about recurrence reduction. Senseful daily spending consists of paid labour, but it can also be unpaid labour. It may also be training, or study or participation in a behavioral intervention or outpatient or non-ambulant forensic care. It could be all of that. In particular, this also concerns unpaid work, because it may well be that we cannot get everyone paid to work. Then we must look at unpaid labour. From the personal approach, the work fits as best as possible with the knowledge and experience of the person undergoing electronic detention, so that after ED he can continue that work outside at the time of conditional release. That is exactly what Mr Marcouch asked for in his speech. The aim is that someone who has electronic detention works 40 hours a week and/or has a meaningful daily use. Where this is not possible, a minimum of 26 hours is required for the meaningful daily use. For all participants in electronic detention, a programme shall be drawn up with clear agreements on where the person concerned is staying and on which he or she participates and not participates. In this way we try to make it as meaningful as possible. The starting point is that the prisoner is primarily involved and responsible for finding a job. Mr Marcouch asked for that. If the inmate is making efforts, this can also be done from the point of view of the p.i. If, however, it is not possible to find a job, an opportunity which we do provide, DJI can facilitate it. There are very good examples from the BBIs and the ZBIs in this area; it is right that Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for this attention. We use the network, knowledge and experience of the Penitentiary Trajectory Centres, where these things are already being done. We will also use this in the design of ED. The objective in introducing ED is indeed the use of labour and meaningful daily use. If there is now no suitable work available for an ED-set and no reintegration can be offered by the municipality, a meaningful daily use will be facilitated by DJI. This can also be useful in general terms. I have already been in contact with the Minister of Education, among others. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked what the day program of an inmate with ED looks like. She asked about "a week out of an ED'er's life"; she put it last night. From Monday to Friday he is engaged in work, training and treatment or a combination of these activities, at least 26 hours and where possible more but never less. If he has a benefit, he may also be required to pursue activities of the municipality in the context of the job application obligation. During those hours, including the necessary travel time, he can then leave the house. In addition, he can spend two hours outdoors for other things. That can be his mental care, but it can also be about other, personal matters. The underlying roster is known to the emergency room. It can be changed every 14 days. That can also happen because the prisoner needs it. In the context of supervision at home and in the office there is also contact with the probation and regular monitoring of the use of alcohol and drugs takes place. On weekends and on days of non-work, for example in connection with irregular work, only the two hours of free time mentioned above are mentioned. During the day, the person who has electronic detention must ensure that the anklet is and remains charged and that the power supply remains intact. This also belongs to the responsibilities of an ED'er. So this is what a week in an ED'er's life looks like. I'm here to talk about surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u100	At the end of the sixth block there is first room for questions. First of all, Mr Van der Steur would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u101	I explicitly asked the Secretary of State to fill in the concept of "senseful daily spending." I am largely reassured that it is not the case that we are opting for electronic detention for all kinds of reasons and that it is only a day's spending to put people to work and thus justify electronic detention. I would like to be assured by the Secretary of State that if, at the very end of the journey, there is a search for reintegration programmes for at least 26 hours, these are programmes that are recognizable to society as equivalent to work or training and appropriate to the starting point of control and supervision. Is that how the Secretary of State sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u102	The answer is yes. An example is that people are doing work on the Defence Line of Amsterdam. This is now taking place within the framework of the PTCs. There are prisoners who have been placed in a ZBBI or a BBI and who have been working there for a very long time. For these people the big difference will be that they get an anklet and that we also know what they do in the evenings and weekends. Such work in the context of monument care is an example of work of general benefit. For example, buildings or public greenery can be maintained. Such work, which can also be imposed by the municipalities, can be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u103	This is therefore an example of work for the general good. However, I would like to go back to the situation in which a reintegration programme is to be followed. The Secretary of State just said that it would take up to 26 hours a week. Doesn't it make sense to do that job in the general interest besides that, so you get to 40 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u104	That could very well be the case. However, it is also possible that people may not be able to do what immediately, from the first moment, but with some guidance at some point, to do so for a period of up to twelve months. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already given an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u105	Just to lighten things up a little bit, I've got this weird thing. But it's the practice, so I'm gonna bring it in anyway. Soon a lot of inmates will go with electronic detention. They'll be wearing an anklet. A lot of women will then come to work in the catering industry or the tourist industry. So what's a mega problem is that uniforms are mandatory there. The Secretary of State may be laughing at this, but it's just a problem. Those girls need to wear tight skirts with a nice jacket and tights. Of course, that cannot be done with electronic detention and an anklet. This is a serious problem. Can we meet now to take a serious look at this? If we are going to let a huge group go out to vulnerable professions where not everyone can work with jeans somewhere on the moors, there must be something to settle, so that these women can actually get a job. It may be a banal problem, but it is the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u106	I'm not laughing at it at all; I'm getting into it very seriously. This question is in line with the question raised by Mr Segers in his first term of office, namely whether women with children can also find themselves on the path of electronic detention. So it's not a crazy exchange of views at all. These are all implementation problems, which we certainly need to look closely at. I don't have the answer ready right now, I'm telling you that honestly. But I'm not laughing it off either, because I think it's something you should take with you. It is entirely in line with what Mr Segers said in his first term. If you want women with children to be more easily and previously eligible for electronic detention, you obviously have to solve these problems. Otherwise, you can't get these women to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u107	It seems like a nice job for TNO to come up with something better than one of those things on your ankles.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yeah. Maybe you have a nice bracelet, too. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u109	We just got a week out of an ED'er's life. In my contribution, I stressed the importance of a social shell of, for example, volunteers around such a person. It is of course crucial that a volunteer comes along or that there are other people who take the ED'er by hand and try to lead the right path.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u110	I'm gonna go into it extensively. Mrs Kooiman asked where the dropout rate of 12% EDs came from. This percentage is based on current experience with the penitentiary programmes. In 2012, 12% of the participants in a penitentiary program were returned to a penitentiary facility because they did not comply with the conditions. In the context of electronic detention, we have budgeted the same dropout rate. We do not know exactly, of course, but we do have some indication because electronic monitoring is also used within penitentiary programmes. We have assumed the dropout rate of 12 that you should put back in a penitentiary facility. Mr Van der Steur and Mr Schouw have asked whether there is any assurance that electronic detention is possible only in the case of work or training and with strict controls on alcohol, drugs and violations of conditions. In other words, can the Secretary of State guarantee lick-on-piece in the event of violation of the conditions? The prisoner's programme is, of course, marked by meaningful daily spending. This means that the punitive nature of the measure must also be taken into account. During the entire period of electronic detention there will be electronic surveillance, free time outside the home can be filled in as it sees fit and the use of alcohol and drugs is not allowed. I was just talking about the dropout rate. The starting point is that electronic detention is terminated if the person concerned does not comply with the conditions. That can only be different if there are sufficiently serious arguments not to do so. You could imagine it is also in line with the expectation that, in the case of less serious offences, you will be satisfied with a warning and in other cases not. This is already happening, including in the case of addiction rehabilitation. However, it is never permissible for a person with electronic detention not to comply with the agreements. If he doesn't keep his end of the bargain, that's what he needs to be addressed to. It is only a question of whether we should always respond with the end of electronic detention. So you will have to introduce modalities in that. It is possible that a person may not be at home too late or leave the property at a time that is not allowed. If electronic detention has continued for a period of 10 months without problems, you can of course consider whether the electronic detention for those last two months still needs to be continued, if necessary under stricter conditions. I would like to leave that to the professionalism of those who will be responsible for it. This is also the subject of concrete agreements between the Judicial Institutions and the parole board. The use of alcohol or drugs can, of course, be seen as a recurrent risk. If the parole board thinks so, it can indicate that in the opinion; it is doing so now. DJI may then decide to extra check and also check for use. In the case of alcohol or drugs, the message to the person concerned will have to be crystal clear. Use is not considered during the period of electronic detention. It will be monitored and there will be consequences for use. Eventually we end up with a dropout rate of 12. Mr Van der Steur asked how control of the use of alcohol and drugs takes place in a very concrete way. The verification of compliance with conditions shall be carried out. Signals of imminent violations shall be monitored. Reclassifying supervision consists of both control and guidance. The ED'er is encouraged and motivated to comply with those conditions. Each supervision therefore has a number of basic activities: face-to-face contact between the supervisor and the ED'er, control of housing, meaningful daily spending, unannounced control of drug and alcohol consumption at least once every four weeks and perhaps more at signals, monitoring in case of illness and checking with the informal network of the ED'er. The further implementation of the supervision is tailor-made and the intensity of course also depends on the risk of recidivism among the individual who is being imposed on electronic detention. Mr Marcouch asked about the variants of electronic detention, light, middle and expanded, with increasing supervision. The probation will be entrusted with supervision and supervision and has had three levels of supervision for years. With electronic detention, we will join those three levels. Mr Bishop asked how it could be avoided that a person who is picking up his old criminal network during electronic detention and how this could be monitored. There are many means of communication and you can't always completely prevent someone from contacting his old network when he's at home with the anklet. However, the data subject may be prohibited from contacting certain persons when undergoing electronic detention. If EDs maintain contacts in breach of the conditions, this will result in the ED being terminated. Of course, it is essential that these criminal contacts be known by name and by name. Sometimes that's the case, but sometimes it's not. With the probation surveillance we have experience with keeping the finger on the wrist. We will do the same in this situation. So much for this chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u111	The first candidate is Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u112	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for explaining this point. The reason why I have so explicitly asked how the return from the ED situation to the cell is going to work is that during a recent community service visit it has shown to me that it still has a lot of feet in the earth before a task sentence finally returns to prison. The district attorney must be involved, but of course he is not always available. It can take days and sometimes weeks for someone to resume community service. This is an example for which the VVD has often called attention, as this undermines society's confidence in community service. Now we are creating a new phenomenon: electronic detention. The last thing the VVD group wants is for it to go the same way and for it to take days or weeks. This really has to be a lick-on-piece policy: if you don't keep your appointments on one day, you'll be back in jail the next day. That is the only way in which we believe there will be social support. The environment of the ED'er also sees that this kind of behavior is not accepted. Can the Secretary of State still reassure me on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u113	The essential difference between community service and electronic detention is that, in the latter case, a deprivation of liberty has been imposed by the judge, thus enabling the administration of electronic detention in the context of reintegration. So the judge's ruling is deprivation of liberty. Then you do something other than deprivation of liberty, namely electronic detention. In community service, there is no question of a custodial sentence. The judge has imposed community service as a main sentence and, if returned to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Public Prosecutor will have to bring an action for enforcement. We didn't choose the officer model when returning the community service, we chose the judge model. This means that the Public Prosecutor must first bring an action for enforcement before the court, after which the lick-on-piece policy can really get a face. We have discussed this extensively in the past. The problems of community service are twofold. Sometimes the probation returns and she's told by the D.A. that she needs to try again. Sometimes the D.A. gets a callback from the parole board, which means the judge says the parole board has to try again. That is fundamentally different from this punishment. There's a prison sentence here. The Board shall decide to apply electronic detention in the final stage of conditional release. There is a title for a custodial sentence and it relives when someone violates the conditions for electronic detention. It is also easier in this situation to bring someone back to prison without the intervention of the judge. In community service, this is a fundamentally different situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u114	I would very much like to discuss community service at another time and at another place with the Secretary of State. Our group believes that this is a very peculiar consequence of the system we have chosen. It also undermines trust in community service. I understand the point that the Secretary of State makes and I understand the difference, but how do we guarantee that it's going fast and that it's really lick-on-piece? Do something wrong this morning, in jail tonight. According to the VVD Group, this is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u115	That was discussed in the master plan. I have said that the implementation of electronic detention gives DJI a very important responsibility. It's not something just the parole board's gonna do. A number of Members have asked whether there is time for parole and whether the pressure on financial resources is already too high in the case of parole. DJI gets an important job in control. As part of the lick-on-piece policy, someone has to go back to the facility very quickly. You need to see if you can give the Transport and Support Service a boa status so that they can actually make the arrest in case of resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u116	It is a very valid point for the sequence of phasing. If someone does something that can't be done, what should be rigged before you can bring someone in? My question is about the beautiful letter we received from Reclassing Netherlands, Addiction Reclamation and the Salvation Army. The Secretary of State is right to say that he has a great deal of faith in the probation. That's where the key is, he says, and that's where the whole surveillance is hung. If the Secretary of State has so much appreciation and respect for parole that he hangs everything on it, why doesn't he listen to it when she says you have to keep the short re-integration leave on? The probation thinks that it is an important step-by-step approach to ultimately returning to society. Does the Secretary of State wish to discuss with the parole board the question of how to take this form?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u117	No, we're still looking for the most ideal model. What should the reintegration leave include and what should and should not be included? Whether an inmate should wear an anklet or not is also a discussion point when he gets leave. I'm quite willing to discuss that. It is not the case, by the way, that only probation has an important role to play. DJI is also given an important role in the execution of electronic detention. I'll come back to that later. As part of the master plan, it is very important that people from DJI get to work in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u118	All right, but very sharply: I understand that the Secretary of State embraces the request for parole to establish or maintain a form of reintegration leave. He's gonna see how he can fill out the leave with goals, like looking for a job and doing job interviews, so people can just focus on that outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u119	You can also say that in the phase of electronic detention you have 12 months to apply. This is in line with the objectives we are pursuing with electronic detention. What Mrs Van Toorenburg says about it is perfectly clear to me. I'm definitely going to talk to the parole board about it, because it's an aspect that we have to consider. Apart reintegration leave without electronic detention outside the period of electronic detention is, as far as I am concerned, a different story. Within 18 months there will be no room. In any case, it is a maximum of 12 months prior to the date of conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u120	I have another question to clarify in connection with a comment by Mr van der Steur on the lick-on-piece policy if you have been imposed on electronic detention. Mr Van der Steur said that it should be over immediately if you screw up or go over the line. How does that relate to the non-conditional release of detainees? Is it true that after one mistake one has to serve the whole sentence? How strict is that, how much space is in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u121	I think you should look at it on a case-by-case basis. Someone who is in electronic detention and commits a minor offence, you give a warning. You're gonna have to tear down the ED right away? Not in my view, because if you're gonna do that, you're gonna put the horse behind the cart. Of course, it depends on the offence when you break off the electronic detention. What could be the reason to break off the electronic detention? Let me give you an obvious example, which I believe Mr Segers can also agree with. If someone commits a serious criminal offence during electronic detention, I am not talking about speeding, but about committing a crime, which may already be a circumstance not to grant the vi, but to postpone or postpone it. It may also be that someone does not commit a criminal offence, but keeps up with all kinds of people from his old network, with whom he should not be in contact, so that his behaviour does not show why he has signed up for the ED and therefore does not comply with the conditions. That could be a reason to break down the ED. However, it could also be a reason to say to the inmate: you have ED, we have agreed a number of things, you have violated the conditions of the ED and that may be a reason why the vi starts later or is even adjusted. That is what Mrs Kooiman explicitly asked me about. You have to apply it in proportion, not put the horse behind the cart. If you spend ten months leading someone back to society and then he commits a minor offense, you destroy by breaking down the ED and not granting everything you've built up the months before. So you have to look at the extent of the offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u122	I thank the Secretary of State for this clarification. It makes it clear that you have to apply this very proportionally. I have one final enlightening question. Are the conditions for conditional release comparable to the conditions for electronic detention or are they more stringent in the latter case?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u123	In the latter case, they are much stricter. This was also reflected in my exchange of views with Mrs Van Toorenburg. As I said to Mrs Kooiman half an hour ago: if you screw up your ED to an important extent and you don't keep to the agreements made, while at ED the bar is lower, that may mean that the vi starts later. In the calculation example of nine years it is possible that you will spend five years in the p.i. Behaved fine, but never renounced your criminal intentions, while you signed a contract for ED in the sixth year. You can spend nine months there and then suddenly sit in the middle of a group that's pulling in 1,000 kilos of heroin. If someone hasn't been convicted yet, that could be a circumstance to take a serious look at that conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u124	Following on from Mr Segers' question, which comes down to the question of when to screw up your ED, the Secretary of State very often says that it can be this or that. This gives me the impression that there are no objective criteria at present. Is that right? And how do you prevent arbitrariness, whereby one for the same crime is dealt with more heavily than the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr Schouw has a point there. I said this a little earlier in the evening during the discussion of the AMvB. Neither with the penitentiary program, can you describe the behavior you do not want with ED in a General Measure of Management. That shouldn't be random. It must be clear and foreseeable what can lead to the breakdown of ED and what behavior has any effect. You have behavior that leads to aborting ED and going back to a facility and you have behavior that leads to aborting ED, going back to a facility and not qualifying for conditional release in the seventh year. Those are two different modalities. These will be described in this AMvB, which I am very prepared to put forward, as I promised Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u126	So the cabinet agrees with my group's position, namely the need to avoid and perhaps even exclude as much arbitrariness as possible on this point, by immediately indicating clear, objective criteria for losing your electronic detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u127	Yes. There is always customization in applying ED and also in breaking down ED, but you do have to act pronely proportionately. So that has to be known in advance. For example, there are examples from the system of promotion and degradation that I have sent the Chamber. In that we have indicated what good behavior is and what behavior is that within the p.i. is rejected or is even bad behavior. I agree with Mr Schouw that you need to make this known in advance, especially when it comes to breaking down ED and even further affecting vi. I come to many questions from Mr Segers, Mr Marcouch and others. Mr Segers has asked me why electronic detention cannot be applied to female prisoners with children in any way. This will prevent children from going to foster care and reduce detention damage to children. Can I make agreements on this and make funds available for it, possibly in cooperation with youth care and foster care? Within electronic detention there is room for providing customization. I do not intend to allow this scheme to apply standard electronic detention to women. There may always be circumstances where you shouldn't do it, not even with inmate women with children. However, when assessing suitability for participation in ED, the personal circumstances of those involved will have to be taken into account. A number of selection criteria already apply to female prisoners with children. You are already dealing with the nature, gravity and background of the crime committed, with the behaviour of the inmate, with the danger of the recidivism of this prisoner, with the interests of victims or relatives, who are increasingly being tested, even at the request of the majority of the Chamber, and with the degree of uncertainty about the dates of release. This is the case, for example, in the case of non-religious prisoners. We are dealing here with a difficult problem to tackle. If people are not irrevocably convicted, when are we going to allow them to benefit from electronic detention? This is extremely complicated for this target group. Sometimes there are good reasons for allowing them to be eligible for electronic detention, while there is still no clarity as to the level of the sentence to be imposed. In addition to the 26-hour schedule for the target group referred to by Mr Segers, there must be a sensible daily use which also leaves room for care for the children. Of course, as much as possible should be prevented from harming children as a result of the detention of one of the parents. That is in fact entirely in line with the policy we are already pursuing for female detainees within the establishment. During detention there are also special parent-child days and for mothers there is the intervention Better Start. Mr Marcouch asked whether all addicts or only the serious cases would be excluded from participation in electronic detention. Only persons with such a serious addiction problem can be seriously questioned as to whether they can comply at all with agreements and deal with the freedom of electronic detention are eligible for ED. This is in line with what addiction rehabilitation is already doing in the area of electronic surveillance. We are not saying that addicts are never eligible for electronic surveillance, but some of them have such an addiction that no agreement can be reached with them at all. Mr Van der Steur and Mr Bishop asked me yesterday how it is ensured that perpetrators of violent and violent crimes are not eligible for ED. How is the interests of victims and survivors properly taken into account? Mrs Van Tongeren also referred to this. This is taken into account by DJI when deciding whether a prisoner is allowed to participate in electronic detention and then also in the completion of electronic detention. During the ED, a ban on contact or territory may be imposed in view of the interests of victims. In that case, it will be considered how the prisoner adheres to it. Inmates with a higher risk profile for victims and survivors are not eligible for ED anyway. However, I would like to make it quite clear to Mr van der Steur and Mrs Helder that prisoners who have committed a serious crime are not categorically excluded from the electronic detention scheme. Long-term punishments in the final phase of their detention also have an interest in returning to society in a responsible and controlled manner. The framework for this is conditional release, all the way to the end, but I do not want to exclude the possibility of electronic detention for long-term re-socialisation, who have shown good behavior during their detention and who are also capable of returning to society. The condition must be that the risk profile does not oppose the imposition of electronic detention. We must clearly define this group. We will do the same, as Mr Schouw asked, in the General Measure of Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u128	Was this the block of target groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u129	No, we're not done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u130	Then we'll go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mrs Kooiman has asked me whether we should keep a closer eye on the ticking time bomb instead of rewarding the good detainee. I've already made it clear that good prisoners aren't always good prisoners. There are also very good inmates who exhibit adapted behavior for a long time. The ticking time bomb is also not always a visible ticking time bomb within a p.i. This too is somewhat complicated. In developing the system of promotion and degradation within the facility, extra care has been given to the position of inmates with a disorder, including addiction or poor development. To Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Van Tongeren I say that these prisoners do not need to score positive on all aspects of good behavior in order to qualify for promotion. However, these prisoners must show a willingness to improve. Inmates who cannot show the required behavior due to an intellectual disability or serious illness can go to the PC department and there they get the care that eventually.... if there are no counterindications, as the law already mentions... can lead to conditional release. I have already addressed the question of Mrs Van Tongeren or less motivated detainees and prisoners with mental problems do not need any more support. Mr Marcouch has asked me specifically whether intellectually limited people are also eligible for ED and, if not, whether they need specific attention and how they are then supervised. Slightly intellectually limited persons are not excluded from participation in electronic detention. However, the slightly intellectually limited form a broad group, some of which can remain more or less independent or belong in a care program, in combination with a guided form of housing. This can be done very well through ED, provided that someone adheres to the conditions. This group, like the other potential participants in ED, is assessed according to the nature, gravity and background of the crime, the behaviour, the danger, the interests of victims and survivors and the degree of uncertainty about the date of release. However, they do not have to meet all the criteria. You might well imagine that within that group of light intellectually limited, people do not meet one or more things, but still qualify for ED. We can see that. Finally, Mr Segers' question as to what re-socialization options are offered to target groups not eligible for ED and why no tailor-made package is offered. There remains a differentiated system whereby prisoners can work towards reintegration, including within the p.i. For inmates who are not eligible for the plus programme due to their behaviour, there is still an activity programme and the basic programme. This basic programme is now being developed by DJI, which is based on a programme of activities enabling a prisoner to participate in activities for 43 hours a week. This corresponds to the size of the current work programme, which, moreover, goes well beyond the minimum legal standard of 18 hours per week. A detention and reintegration plan shall be drawn up for each inmate and provided for aftercare. The basic programme is also based on work and, through motivated treatment and short interventions, attempts are made to motivate prisoners to change. So much for this point. I now come to finance and capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u132	But before that, there are still a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u133	We are working together to ensure that people who have committed serious sexual offences are given lifelong supervision, including electronic surveillance. Can the Secretary of State explain exactly what the difference is when he says that these serious sex offenders do not get electronic detention, while we are just looking at how we can ensure that they are given lifelong surveillance? Again, the CDA doesn't want them to come out sooner, but if they go out, we'd like them to have an anklet and not go out bald.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u134	Convicted sex offenders in the period of conditional release may be subject to conditions, which may be electronic surveillance. That possibility is already there. The problem is the sex offenders who fall outside the period of conditional release, because they can no longer be subject to conditions. We have seen a number of examples lately. The system of the law does not now provide for conditions to be imposed. Then we want to impose this measure for a maximum period of five years, which can be renewed each time by the courts. Within that measure, therefore, that is substantially different from converting the sentence into electronic detention............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the law on lifelong surveillance for sex offenders and serious crimes of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u135	I have listened carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State to my questions about the categories of detainees eligible for electronic detention. My first question is whether I can see that this debate will not take place until there is an AMvB in the Chamber. Then we can talk about these categories. My second question, about which I had an extensive exchange of views with a number of colleagues in an interrupting debate, is how we involve victims or possible relatives in the decision and implementation of electronic detention and the conditions surrounding it. This is very important for the VVD Group. I understand from the Secretary of State that, in exceptional cases, an inmate for a serious violent crime in which victims are to be regretted is still eligible for electronic detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u136	In those cases, I have said that we do not categorically exclude it, with which I have said that it is not necessarily the case that someone is eligible for it, it is not going to be in a different way than we are already giving effect to the conditional release. This means that we sometimes have victim research or next of kin research, that we sometimes run the information through the officer or through the Detention Development Information Point, and that in some situations we provide care after the end of the conditional release period. That will have to be done sooner. In Mr Oskam's calculation example of nine years, information for survivors should not be given in the transition from the sixth to the seventh year, but prior to the period of electronic detention. There is a similar situation that victims and next of kin may encounter the perpetrator on the street. In the case of electronic detention, it is the same as in the case of conditional release. Also then there will be a land ban or ban on contact and what must be associated with it in the vicinity of victims and/or relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u137	The Secretary of State says three times sometimes. If three times combined is sometimes 100%, it is "always" and I fully agree with that. If sometimes plus sometimes plus does not add up to 100%, there is therefore a large category in which that investigation is not conducted, that consultation is not taking place and that there is no consultation with victims or next of kin. That would be a very difficult point for the VVD group. The Secretary of State also knows this, because in the context of the note on victim policy we also discussed this extensively with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u138	I say'sometimes', because there are situations where the right of recovery is now doing its job, victims and/or relatives are in contact with perpetrators of serious crimes and recovery law also has positive consequences. This is because after victim examination it appears that victims and relatives sometimes have no objection to an unsub coming into their vicinity or having contact with them. In fact, the right of recovery sometimes leads to the situation that one prefers contact. It's a small group. You can't say it's an empty letter from the law of reparation. It's becoming more and more effective. That's why I use the word "sometimes." It is not necessarily the case that 100% of the victims and their families do not want any contact with a convicted perpetrator.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mr Van der Steur, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr President, thank you for allowing me a further interruption. Then I understand the Secretary of State. Then it is: always, unless there are good reasons to waive it, for example because of the right of recovery, because people do not need it or because there are other circumstances. As far as we are concerned, it is excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u141	I have already said that the nature and gravity of the crime are extremely important. I have also said that I do not categorically refuse them, but I am not saying that we are going to do this categorically. This is a difficult group, just because you have to take account of next of kin and victim interests. But it is not a categorical no; area and contact bans are not categorical.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u142	The Secretary of State mentioned "promoting and demolishing," which is actually a disguised term for the austerity of the prison regime. I don't understand why the Secretary of State is abolishing the right to work. So unmotivated inmates from the State Secretary no longer have to work in detention. That's crazy. Outside detention, we want people not to sit on the couch with benefits and just go to work, and in detention we say to unmotivated crooks: well, you know what, you can just sit in your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u143	I know Mrs Kooiman as someone who regularly visits penitentiary institutions and speaks regularly to workmasters, as I do. Those workmen told me the following in the last three and a half years. What we, as workmaster in the workroom, have a little brother dead from, are people with a right to work who then enter and then do everything to frustrate that right to work during the period they are in the workroom. Can't you free us from those inmates, dear Secretary of State? Can't you think of an arrangement that will give us people who we can motivate to do something about it?At first they may not feel like it, but they're going to behave a bit in accordance; luckily there are a lot of people who want to work or want to work? Can't you free us from those people with the right to work for whom the only reason to walk around that room is that they don't want to be in jail? This bill frees those workmen a little bit of that kind of inmates. Those are sometimes a bit of the hopeless cases in such a facility. They're just walking around in the workroom to frustrate things.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u144	I also make work visits and I also speak to these talented workers. Actually, I think the Secretary of State is very inadequate with the workmasters. They provide a day-to-day regime, they ensure that the prisoners return to a day-to-day rhythm and that they learn what is working again. I think it's okay if we don't give the prisoners so much fun work at first, which makes them want to do a little more fun work, and that they'll be rewarded if they join us sometime. On that point, I can go with the Secretary of State. However, I am disappointed that the Secretary of State does not want that right to work, to teach them how to work again outside the institution. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u145	I'm trying to convince Mrs. Kooiman again. I think that's a challenge. Let's face it, I think we are in total agreement. Mrs. Kooiman and I both think that the workmen inside the p.i.Doing a great job. They can perfectly motivate 90% or 93%. Some people just want to work more. They want to work for 40 or 50 hours, and then they want some more money for it. Some people don't feel like it at first, but the workers still get them to work. However, there is also 7% that doesn't feel like doing anything at all, which is only there not to have to be in jail. What the hell is wrong with motivating the people who aren't, saying, "Oh, you don't deserve it at all, so you're gonna go to jail?" What is wrong with that? On the contrary, I'd like to help those workmen. I would like to see as many people at work as possible, but I want to restrict the absolute right to work a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u146	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u147	There is an excellent intermediate solution: at least put them on cell, and then work. Then you have an intermediate solution. Then you'll give them the right to work. Then you make sure they can work, that they learn what work is, and you make sure it's not that much fun. However, some people just have more of a kick under their...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u148	Beep!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u149	Still a little while, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna say Mrs. Kooiman doesn't know how it goes. There are also prisoners who do not want to work at all. They don't need it at all either, because they have outside funding and everything they want in there, just so do they. They just don't want to work at all. They say: we are going to serve those six years and, Secretary of State, do not bother us with the right to work, because we do not want any work at all. They say: we do not want to appear in that room either, we simply want to deactivate those six years. Those people are here. I know him. I've come across them, too, and not just on a job visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u150	I give the floor to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u151	Those people actually just want to continue their criminal career. We can't motivate these people very well. Those fantastic workmen can't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr President, I have another point. It could be that Mrs Van Toorenburg...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u154	I've heard it before in this round. If we keep going, it's gonna be night work. Mrs. Van Toorenburg, can you do it at once? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u155	It's very easy to get to work with these guys: they're gonna work in jail, or they're gonna go to solitary. I've done that with enthusiasm for ten years. I'd like the Secretary of State to go through with it. It can't be that they spend six years in a cell, legs in the air, and think that's how they're gonna get through jail. It's working in the workroom or working in your own cell. If not, we have beautiful isolation cells in the prison system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u156	I don't know if the law provides for that possibility. I don't think so right now, and I have to enforce the law. I can't put a guy in solitary because he just wants to serve his sentence in jail. It's gonna be complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u157	It can be very good. People who have been sentenced to prison are currently obliged to work. If they don't, you can take measures. You can punish them, too. That is being done and that is being honored, so go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u158	Well, okay. That's a completely different subject that's not in this bill, but it's interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u159	I will come back to a special target group for which I have asked for attention, namely women with children, and especially young children. The Secretary of State often says "sometimes." He's holding all kinds of beatings around the arm, so I want to know exactly what the chances are that these women will get electronic detention sooner and faster, so you're in front of the whole problem of children who have to go to foster care or child care. Does the principle of "yes, unless" apply? Do I understand the Secretary of State that well? I have also presented the case-Venlo to the Secretary of State in my contribution. It was about financing problems. You have youth care, and you have inmates, and those are separate funding flows. There is one case, Venlo, in which people want to deal with it. There are major problems with these financial flows. Can the Secretary of State take another look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u160	I can answer that with yes, because we need to see what works. Apart from the flow of funding, we need to see if these things can be put together in a fluent way. I think that is the problem that Mr Segers raises. I've heard about that. The first one's a little more complicated. I mentioned the criteria. I said: it is certainly the case that you need to facilitate women with growing children to the maximum. However, the interests of victims and survivors can prevent this, for example in the case of a serious crime. Despite the fact that a woman with a child is in detention, the interests of victims and survivors can still weigh heavily in a specific case. However, it is somewhat wider than "not categorically excluding'. We are all convinced that women with children, including in the case of serious crimes, must look at the interests of children, especially up to the age of four years, in which mother and child are not separated either. The Chamber knows the establishment in the Peel. So I do not think we disagree, but we will have to look at how we are shaping this very concretely.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u161	I do not think we disagree. That might be a little minimalist. I would like to summarize it as: yes, unless there are major interests, for example of victims. If I understand the Secretary of State so well, I think we'll just agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u162	In this debate, I believe, we have divided it so much that we continue to ask the Secretary of State on a different subject. I'll come back to the non-cannons and the non-willers. The Secretary of State says that people with a psychological problem come into a separate institution. I can't believe that, because that's 60% of the prisoners. But my question is: did I hear correctly that the minimum amount of hours for which a prisoner receives a program is 38 hours a week? Is that right? And does that apply to all inmates, or is there, after all, a group that spends most of the day in prison?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u163	I just mentioned those hours. It's 43 hours. The legal minimum number of hours a person has to leave his cell for activities is 18. That is the absolute legal minimum. You can't get under that. That doesn't happen that much. I have also indicated that we will consider, in lightly limited cases, whether we can also implement electronic detention in a different way. That was Mr Marcouch's explicit question. Mrs. Van Tongeren said something else. She was talking about non-willers and non-cannons. At the non-customers, we need to see how we can facilitate them. Sometimes they're the "sad people" in prison. You have "mad people," who are treated in a TBs clinic or in the PBC, but you also have "bad people." We also have them in prisons and you have to carefully filter them out. That's what we're trying to do with the system of promotion and degradation. For the non-cannons there must therefore be more possibilities than for the non-willers. The non-willers are a somewhat complicated category. I just talked to Mrs Kooiman about that. There are also people who just don't want anything. Then it's gonna end sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u164	I am particularly concerned about the impact on society. Let's say you have a non-willer like that. It's stuck all the time. So that could mean 21 hours a day in jail, as I calculated as quickly as I did. And then someone's gonna get out. That may be the choice of that bad person, but for society it is a real disaster if we get something like that. Is it really possible in this system that a person is serving his entire sentence without any leave or supervised leave and without any instruction, course, training or anything else and then gets out, while for a long time he has just been in prison 21 hours a day?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u165	No, I'm not. People are also entitled at the moment to the basic programme of a number of hours. I have just explained that this goes well beyond 18 hours a week. That's what these people have a right to. However, in the system of promotion and degradation, they are not entitled to additional facilities. I already outlined that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u166	At 18 hours a week, I go to jail 21 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u167	That's the legal minimum standard. I have already spoken about the 43 hours for which people are now eligible. That's the basic program.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u168	I suggest we go to the finance block.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr Schouw asked how hard the austerity mission was. What are the chances that the cuts will be higher? We have already had an exchange of views on this subject this evening. I've said a lot about that. With the current insight, the daily price of €77 or €78 entered in the budget is sufficient to give effect to electronic detention in the desired way. The costs are as follows: access to and closure of the anklet, supervision, mediation or organisation of work, follow-up of withdrawals, ICT, logistical support and overhead. All these cases are in that amount. We have already talked about the additional setbacks that have occurred. Mr Schouw referred to this in relation to the Breukelen package. I have already promised during the last general discussion on its implementation that I will inform the Chamber in the June letter on this matter. Mrs Kooiman asked how many ankle straps are distributed on an annual basis on the basis of 800 places. Based on 800 places, 1,750 prisoners will start electronic detention on an annual basis. The expected average duration of the period of wearing an anklet is five and a half months, taking into account all those people. Mr Segers has asked if I can give an insight into the shift in costs. It is a question of costs which are now covered by the prison system and which then shift to the police. At my request, the police carried out a quick scan of the consequences of the introduction of electronic detention. There is no question of an increase in police duties. This is mainly because we want people from DJI to do this in the context of work to work and the master plan. Moreover, in particular, the absence of police advisory duties for occasional leave and regime leave, wherever the police are currently working, does not constitute an increase in duties. Mr Van der Steur asked me how the implementation of this bill relates to the surprising and disappointing decline in the number of detainees in recent months. Indeed, he used the term "disappointing decline." He asked whether the introduction of electronic detention would actually be as necessary as was originally foreseen. To meet the PMJ estimate, I want to stick to the 800 for the 2015 budget. I want to stick to that number at all, because the question is whether this decline is continuing. I can't answer that question right now. As the decline would go on exceptionally and we would be among the 8,000 prisoners, the pool from which to select would be reduced accordingly. That will cause problems in the final selection. Mr Schouw has also asked a question in this connection, which I have already answered. Mr Schouw also asked a question about the numbers. The 800 places are included in the 2014 budget as part of the overall capacity planning in the prison system. This means that the number of 800 is not a minimum, but a target. The numbers can fluctuate, but if the PMJ estimates develop as they are now, that number will be below 800 rather than above. The number is not expected to increase. Mr Schouw asked about the impact analysis. Can it be shared with the Room? What are the consequences of the introduction of electronic detention on the workload? The impact analysis provides an insight into the structural impact of the introduction of electronic detention on the workload of the parties concerned. To this end, we have looked at the size of the target group for electronic detention and the chain process. An overview of the results is available. Work is still under way on the comprehensive report. A concept of this will be presented to the experts concerned. It'll be ready by mid-May. Taking into account the criteria and requirements of ED, a minimum of 500 and a maximum of 800 prisoners will be eligible for ED, based on everything we see now in the PMJ estimates. In the letter I sent to the Chamber on 7 April, the impact analysis also examined the additional workload resulting from the introduction of ED and the abolition of the generally applicable detention phase for probation, Public Prosecutor's Office, Police and CJIB. The reduction in workload due to the abolition of phase-in detention has been deducted from the increase in workload resulting from the introduction of electronic detention. The implications for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police are virtually negligible. The consequences for the CJIB are limited. With this, I have fulfilled an order from the Chamber. I remember when Mr Schouw discussed the master plan several times asking for a calculation of the impact on the services. Mrs. Kooiman has asked what about the cuts in parole. Mr Schouw asked how the finances of probation were secured. Mr Segers has asked me how I can ensure sufficient capacity for parole. Mrs Van Tongeren has asked me whether it is true that there has been a greater appeal to parole. Are the three parole organisations (3RO) capable of doing this? Does the workload increase fit within current capacity? Let us be clear that the expertise of probation is essential for the supervision of the participants in electronic detention in the free society. The probation shall provide advice on the detainees and on whether or not to apply electronic detention on the basis of a risk assessment. In addition, the probation accompanies detained participants in electronic detention. The cost of electronic detention shall take into account the costs of such probation activities. These costs amount to about one third of the total cost of electronic detention. There has been extensive coordination with 3RO on substantive activities, as well as on finance. Apart from all the other discounts, we have, of course, still a discussion on the subject of the organisation, which has indicated that they can carry out the planned activities with electronic detention within the budget. Questions have been asked about aftercare.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u170	What block are we in now?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u171	This is the last question from the finance block. After that, I have some loose questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u172	Then we'll finish the financial block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u173	What does electronic detention mean for aftercare? It is primarily for the participants in electronic detention to make a meaningful daily use of their own. Municipalities can play a supporting role in this. In addition, they may provide assistance if a participant in electronic detention fulfils the conditions laid down for that purpose. If it is not possible to provide for paid work, DJI will help to arrange the time spent. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the costs. On the basis of historical data, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment assumes a total cost of 3.2 million for municipalities, UWV and SVB together. This estimate was made by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Municipalities will be compensated in the usual way in the macro budget. I have already mentioned this amount, because the question of costs was raised earlier during the discussion on the master plan. With this, I'm through the questions about the finances. There are some final questions to be answered that were no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u174	When we debate this issue, we shall come back to the austerity in parole again and again. P.O.D.'s already cut a hell of a lot. There may also be waiting lists again. I've asked you to map this out before. The Secretary of State says that it can all be done within the budget, but his replies in the note to the report state that we still have to talk about the precise implementation of electronic detention and probation. I think that's really weird. I'm getting a little confused about this. What extra tasks does the probation get? Is that possible within the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u175	The probation also has other activities, of course; Mrs Kooiman is right in that. There are indeed far more community sentences imposed by judges than prison sentences. That's no surprise, and I've said it before tonight. That means prisons are empty. We have far too much capacity. Even on the basis of the figures of the master plan for the current PMJ estimates, we still have too much empty cell capacity. I don't impose prison sentences; that's what judges do. Last night, Mrs Helder clearly explained this to me under the motto of the separation of powers. So I am not in favour of the imposition of prison sentences, and what I think of that doesn't really matter. However, the fact is that more community service is being imposed, and that puts pressure on the probation organisation. That is certainly true, quite apart from the question of electronic detention. There will therefore have to be a shift within the scope of sanctions, with prison expenditure, expenditure on juvenile justice and expenditure on probation. You can also look for solutions within the parole booth. That's what I'm working on right now. There are issues at parole that are not as successful as had been expected in recent years. For example, on the subject of behavioral interventions, we are currently only getting preliminary recognition. These interventions have not proved to be sufficiently successful and stable to be definitively implemented. We will therefore also have to look at possibilities within the framework of probation. If we continue to impose fewer prison sentences and more community service sentences in the coming years, this will certainly increase the financial pressure on parole and the money will have to come from somewhere. As it is not being updated at the moment, there has to be a shift. That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u176	I asked this Secretary of State earlier to get a good picture at the expense of the task of parole. The Secretary of State would provide an overview of tasks that the probation would possibly do less. My question is quite simple: can the Secretary of State undertake to include in this letter what the probation at the ED will or will not do?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u177	Not only that; perhaps it is good to include this in the June letter that I had promised in relation to a number of other parts. You might want to see what the parole board doesn't have to do anymore. Are there any things that she is doing now but which she will not have to do anymore, for example because certain actions prove to be ineffective or not proven to be effective? We have the various forms of supervision, supervision, 1, 2 and 3; Members know that. There are now a number of standards for this. Perhaps we should look at whether we need to fill this out in a different way. But if there are fewer prison sentences and more community service sentences, perhaps the consequence is that money from the prison system has to go to parole. In extreme consequence, this could mean that we are not there with the master plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u178	I'm trying to walk the Secretary of State through the numbers. The Secretary of State wants to have an average of 800 people in electronic detention every year. Just now he said that there is a cost shift to the municipalities of 3.2 million. If I try to count that on a note, I won't get anywhere near it. If you have 800 benefits and the people in question still need to be taken to work, I will not end up with that amount if I calculate it. Some people will volunteer, which also involves costs. Furthermore, many other services were also mentioned that the municipalities should take care of, for example when people need care at home. What is the amount of money allocated to municipalities per electronic detainee to take care of the whole package?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u179	As I said, we have, of course, passed this on to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. We have estimated what it costs the municipalities, assuming between 500 and 800 cases. This is not an 800-time benefit, as Mrs Van Tongeren said. It can also be 400 times a benefit and 400 times a job, or 600 times a job and 200 times a benefit. Of course, 800 times a benefit is the least positive starting point. I hope that it is different, that we can lead prisoners to work, that we can actually ensure that they go to paid work. Mrs. Van Tongeren outlined the zero scenario. Anyway... We submitted it to SZW. That's what they figured out. In fact, I mentioned this earlier, during the discussions in June last year. It's not a new amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u180	The fact that the amount has been mentioned earlier does not mean that it is true. With the current rate of unemployment, people who do not get out of prison and who do not even have their skills at work. In my view, therefore, the idea of the Secretary of State that it should be possible to find paid employment for 400 people with an ankleband, so that there is no need for benefits or supplementary benefits, is not based on anything. I think the Secretary of State is shifting a large cost to the municipalities. The calculation is based on 375 prisoners who should only have a bald benefit, but the Secretary of State also states that there are still a lot of accompanying services to be provided by the municipalities. Then there are the 400 prisoners who have to find work at this time. Does the Secretary of State himself employ them at his ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mrs. Van Tongeren is making a math error. She assumes that you have to calculate it structurally from the sixth year to the ninth year. However, it is a question of additional costs, where the situation is different than it is today. The municipalities are now also making costs. At the moment when someone is released on parole and they receive a benefit, there are now also costs for the municipalities, from the seventh year onwards, in the calculation example that we have been using all evening. Anyone who is sentenced to nine years is currently released after six years. He then first follows a penitentiary program, or not, but eventually gets paroled at the beginning of the seventh year. For that person, the municipalities are currently also making costs. That is nothing new; those costs are already there and there will of course be in the seventh year; they will no longer be. It is true that there may be additional costs in the new case. After all, electronic detention takes place a year earlier. We have therefore had these costs calculated. Then you'll come up with the price tag we put on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u182	Is that price tag the maximum? Has there been an agreement with the VNG on this? For example, can housing costs be borne by local authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u183	That's no different than it is now. If a person is now subject to parole, the housing costs are also borne by the local government. That is no different if we introduce electronic detention. The only difference for the municipalities is that people are excluded from electronic detention no more than 12 months earlier. The burden will then be postponed for a year, and they will appear before us. All that Mr Schouw is asking for is already standing practice. This does not change with the introduction of electronic detention. It's not new what's happening. It's already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u184	Those weren't my questions. My questions are as follows. First of all... What arrangements have been made with the UNG on this matter? Has this been discussed separately? Second. Is this a maximum burden for the local government? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that? Third. What about the house charges? After all, a child can do the laundry that will increase residential expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u185	This is based on 800 people receiving electronic detention. So we're talking 800 places of electronic detention in one year. We have asked the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment to calculate what this means in the most unfavourable situation. This is the maximum position we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u186	I note that the Secretary of State has not answered my question on these three points. He wipes his street a bit clean: make the bookkeeping for the country in order, but later place the bill with the municipalities. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u187	I really don't see that. Mr Schouw asks me a specific question and I try to answer it as concretely as possible. We have 800 people eligible for electronic detention. That's what we've been swapping with each other all night. In relation to the master plan has already been asked: what does that mean for municipalities? At that time, all kinds of sums were flown through the hall. I had that checked by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. That came to this amount. With all due respect, I'm trying to answer as best I can. The difference in minds is that the world does not change by introducing electronic detention. However, a number of people may be released a year earlier, up to 12 months earlier. However, in the case of conditional release, these people are also released. One more point, Mr President, because I almost forgot to answer part of Mr Schouw's question. He's got a point about that. I'm talking to the VNG, and we'll include in the draft letter what that gets. I am talking to the VNG but I have also had it calculated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. I have already said that compensation is provided for in this respect through the Community Fund. I also agreed with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u188	You remembered that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u189	I had actually said that a little bit, but I would like to repeat it again with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u190	That amounts to an average of €4,000 for the municipality per person with an electronic anklet. This is for housing, guidance, access to work and benefits, in an environment where there is little work. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how likely it is that these costs will not increase. Or he should give the guarantee that Mr Schouw was talking about, that if the costs are incurred, they will be squeezed in. It is indeed a shift from the cuts in this ministry to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u191	I have already said that we will compensate in the Municipal Fund. I have indicated the expectation of the amount. I am not as pessimistic as Mrs Van Tongeren about the success of work leadership. It would be a very bad result if zero people out of the 800 were eligible for a paid job. Then we would have done very badly with all of us. So you might ask yourself whether people who are now released from parole have the opportunity to find a job. I think that this situation is no different, but I repeat: we are going to talk to the VNG about it. I come to speak on other matters that have been raised. Mrs Kooiman made a comment on the substantively burdensome functions. I said yesterday that I would send a letter to the Chamber on that. I can say the following about this. I have made preparations, together with the Minister for Housing and National Service, in recent weeks to start negotiations with the trade unions on a simpler and more austere SBF arrangement in the short term. We needed extra time to align everything with the ministries of SZW, Finance, Economic Affairs and General Affairs. Of course, they have their own responsibility in this type of scheme. This can also have an effect on other parts of the government. I will ask for agreement from the Council of Ministers for a negotiating mandate for Minister Blok and myself. That's gonna happen tomorrow. As soon as that happens, we're actually gonna negotiate with the unions. There has, of course, been preliminary consultations with the unions. So there is an image of what we are talking about. However, sometimes this depends on 25, 26 or 24 months. So we need to talk about this very carefully. We really hope to get out of there in the next few days and weeks. Mr Segers of the Christian Union and Mr Bishop of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have asked whether the cuts in the daily programme are contrary to the right of access to mental care. We have had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject. Can I guarantee that mental care at all times has access to the inmate, even within the promotion and degradation and also within the electronic detention? An inmate obviously has the right to freely confess and experience his or her religion or belief in life. I also fully recognise the positive influence of mental care on the motivation of inmates. I would like to emphasise that the right to freely confess and experience his or her religion or belief is not part of promotion and degradation, so that does not matter. Participants in electronic detention, who therefore no longer reside in the penitentiary institution, have the freedom to express their religion or belief, for example through church visits, mosque visits or visits to a clergyman. After all, they have two hours to spend a day. I am currently talking to the sending agencies about the role that DJI spiritual caregivers can still play in electronic detention, but I have a positive attitude to get out of there with them. Mr Segers asked if there was enough room in the DEMO institutions. What amount is reserved for this purpose? The prisoner who wishes to participate in electronic detention is primarily responsible for finding a suitable place of residence or residence. If, despite his efforts, he fails to find it, then DJI will help him. There are, of course, excellent possibilities, including with Exodus and the Salvation Army, to make provision for this. The cost of accommodation shall be borne by the prisoner in both cases. After all, he receives income from work or a benefit. Therefore, assuming that there are income from employment or a benefit, the cost of housing has not been taken into account. If there is an indication for assisted living, which could also be mentioned, someone who has electronic detention can of course also be placed in a DEMO house. This is financed from the budget available at DJI for forensic care. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has asked me about the implementation of the motions. The additional amounts are available. I hope to be able to clarify the implementation of the motions at the end of April. It is an increasing series in relation to the DEMO houses: 1 million in 2014, 2 million in 2015 and structuralally 3 million in the following years. Mr Segers and Mr Bishop asked questions about voluntary organisations last night. Can they provide that network and are we going to use it? Mr Bishop asked this also in relation to the implementation of the motion on voluntary organizations. Of the many activities carried out by voluntary organisations for the benefit of detainees, it has been shown that they have a positive impact on prisoners. The extra budget available by the Van der Staaij motion for a resolution for the use of the volunteers has been released. This ensures that more activities can be carried out by voluntary organisations. I will inform you about this at the end of April. The role of voluntary organisations in electronic detention is currently being examined. In this connection, it is obvious to draw on the experience of existing and already existing projects, because they are actually there at the moment. Mr Segers asked whether the duration of electronic detention was not too short to solve the problems of housing or benefits. In response to Mrs Kooiman's questions, I spoke about an average period of five and a half months. That seems to us enough time to find a permanent address, but the prisoner who wants to participate in electronic detention is primarily responsible himself. If he doesn't succeed, DJI will assist him. Mr Segers has also raised a matter of principle; at least I take it a little. Isn't the mentoring of prisoners and electronic offenders a national responsibility? I agree with Mr Segers. Detention and also the supervision of detainees are the responsibility of the government. Moreover, this is not the same in principle as: everything must be done by the government. Of course, this is not the case with parole organisations, although they are financed 100%. This is not changed by the arrival of electronic detention. As far as the counseling by the parole board is concerned, the execution in the sense of return notification and control rests with DJI. That is where cooperation will have to be established. The tasks of the municipality in electronic detention are linked to the return of prisoners to society. This return is actually coming sooner, but it is not a new task for the municipality. Mrs Van Tongeren has asked whether there is no cheaper and lighter in-house variant of electronic detention. She cited the Belgian situation as an example. The light variant that we now know, for example, the zbbi is €150 per day, including the central costs and overhead. That price takes into account the weekend leave of inmates. Without weekend leave, that price would rise. By the €77 we now have for electronic detention, that is a completely different variant. Mr Marcouch has asked me how access to educational institutions is being obtained. He has put a great deal of emphasis on this and we have had an exchange of views on it before. One of the questions is how municipalities get and keep young people to study and work. Young people under the age of 27 are not automatically entitled to assistance. The municipality may therefore require them to return to school to obtain their initial qualification. This will always have to be in line with the route desired by the municipality. On the basis of their behaviour in the Plus Programme, they may be eligible for work linked to a vocational training course. It is important to coordinate with the municipality at an early stage in order to be able to complete the training during electronic detention. Most p.i.'s already have a collaboration with the rocks and that can help to give real meaning to that. In addition, by fine-tuning the measures to be made available to education can help in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u192	I hear from many Yi schools that it is difficult to get young people, who are sometimes also required to study, to go to school. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make cooperation more flexible? It seems to be arranged on paper, but in the reality of the Yi schools it turns out to be very difficult, difficult and sometimes almost impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u193	What will actually help is the time-out facility that we have created with juvenile criminal law. As a result, it is possible to bring young people back to the establishment if they do not follow the instructions outside. Some jjis have experience with that. I am still examining whether I can strengthen the functioning of the measure of posting to education even during the continuous stay within the establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u194	That's fine. That is the side of the young and what the jjis, the jji schools and in this case the p.i.Let's do it. In this case, however, the Jij schools themselves do not want to. This is not about a young person not being motivated. What do you do when an educational institution doesn't want a younger person when the younger person is motivated?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u195	The problem of compulsory acceptance was also raised in the consultation with secondary vocational education on the provision of education. The Ministry of Education and Science no longer sees any problems in this. It has also been discussed with the Education Council and with the external schools. There is now an acceptance obligation for young people to actually be admitted to a school, especially for motivated people. In practice, I still see that young people come to a school, but are not so motivated. For that, we need the time-out scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u196	If the Secretary of State is negotiating with education so intensively now, can he take it with him that schools in the institutions will have the opportunity to teach the children throughout the year? It's not right for schools to close for 13 weeks. In the establishment one sits with one's hands in one's hair, because one has to think of all kinds of activities, while those children are better able to receive lessons for 52 weeks a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u197	This is an old and recognizable problem that I have already discussed with Mrs Van Toorenburg during an earlier cabinet period. Then I was sent out by her to arrange this with the schools. You did that back then. Now, by the way, that doesn't make any difference. I will take it upon myself to look again at the holiday period of thirteen weeks, because I understand that problems have arisen again. That is my commitment to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u198	The Secretary of State said that the guidance is a national responsibility, but that the execution takes place on a decentralised basis. Are there any agreements on this with the Security Houses, the municipalities and other stakeholders? Is the Secretary of State in the run-up to the end of this month going to talk about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u199	With the municipalities, of course. I think it is very good to work out with the VNG what Mr Schouw asked. This has already been discussed. Of course, the Security Houses also play a role in this. I have already said something about the connection with the chain partners tonight. We will have to intensify that connection. I certainly see a role for me to play in shaping this optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u200	Are you through, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u201	I'll see if I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u202	I have a little follow-up question. When will we get a feedback from the consultation with the municipalities? When will the Chamber be able to read more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u203	I'll try to take that with me in the June letter. Then I can also inform the Chamber about the prison system and the parole. I think that is a good time, because then I will have a little more clarity about it. Mr Bishop asked me last night about the 7,000 inmates without GBA registration. He asked if Prison Gate Office could play a role in this. The number of 7,000 concerns the part of the outflow of potential aftercare candidates in 2013, of whom no zip code has been registered in DJI's systems. To be precise, 7,100 out of a total of 35,000 people have flowed out. The group consists, for a relatively small part, of people with a foreign residence or a postal code of the establishment of the residence. For the most part, they are persons without permanent residence or residence. For participation in ED, a fixed and acceptable residence address is a condition. So these people don't fit in with this. An inmate who wishes to participate in electronic detention is himself responsible for finding a suitable place of residence and residence. The facility will allow the prisoner to take action. If it doesn't work out to find a place to stay, DJI will help to fill that in. I think about the Salvation Army and Exodus. Mr Schouw asked about the monitoring and evaluation. That should be done at the end of the examination of a bill. We will monitor the application of electronic detention closely in practice. We'll evaluate it. I'm talking to the WODC about this. It's an excellent thing the WODC has to do. A number of aspects which Mr Schouw mentioned in his question will be taken into account. In any case, it concerns the effects of ED on the relapse. That is additional to the annual report of the WODC. Furthermore, we will monitor the inflow, duration and outflow through DJI. I will consider when the Security and Justice Inspectorate will be involved. If there are deviations in the monitoring, the cause and whether it relates to very specific situations or certain establishments or whether it should be taken into account in general. We will monitor and follow closely. I have not yet heard Mr Schouw speak of a moment. I think two years is a little short. I am thinking more of a period of four to five years in order to evaluate how this is done in practice. I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you. So much for the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u205	I have a request for colleagues. I have heard the first-term debate and the State Secretary's replies, and because of the need I myself have to propose a number of more concrete legislative changes through amendments that will take some time, I would ask colleagues to hold on to the further progress of the debate until this is done. I don't know if the colleagues have the same feelings, but I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u206	First, let me talk about my own feelings. You ask for a postponement and use the word "for a moment." I would point out that tomorrow evening the plenary room will be empty. If you could continue the debate tomorrow evening, it would be very easy, but I admit that this is fast. I understand from the government that this recess bill must be dealt with. That means we have another week. I would also point out that next week we have a number of, not to say 'epic' debates on the agenda, such as the debate on the WMO, with which we may be sweet for one or two days. We must also talk about the Stability Pact. We may have to schedule it on 24 April. That's the day before the recess. That means we still have to vote. Depending on the progress of the treatment of the Wmo, the Stability Pact and what else is on the agenda, it might be possible for us to schedule it on Thursday evening 24 April at 9 p.m., 10 p.m. or 11 p.m. The second deadline must then be kept, and then we must vote. I am building uncertainty on uncertainty: this could mean that we still have to vote at 2:00 or 3:00 a.m. We're all happy to do that, but I want this to be clear. Mr Schouw's proposal is still in place. I read an order debate in which I see that there is a majority in favour of Mr Schouw's proposal. Mr Schouw has an additional comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u207	Tomorrow is not an option, because if we want to do it right, it takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u208	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u209	One option is to do it next week. I make one last remark, which I always made when I was in the First Chamber. This Chamber does not take into account what the Upper Chamber wants, just as the Upper Chamber does not take into account the agenda of this Chamber. This is a purely formal remark. In this sense, we do not have to take any interest in it, but I would like to make an effort to see if it is possible next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u210	It has to be next week, because it has to be for the meireces, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u211	There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u212	I thought the Secretary of State might be able to provide additional information. You can always do that. Then I shall put Mr Schouw's proposal to the vote, at least... Mrs Van Tongeren wants to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u213	An order debate means that someone is suggesting something, to which colleagues respond. You'll find out if there's a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u214	I was just about to see if there's a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u215	If the majority would like a response from the Secretary of State, I think the majority would ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u216	Yes, but the chairman always has the opportunity to just get information. But please respond to Mr Schouw's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u217	I agree with Mr Schouw that if this bill is to pass through the First and Second Chambers, amendments are needed to get it in such a form that this is going to happen. It seems to me that this is not possible now. If this doesn't work out at a decent time next week, I'd rather have a good bill that comes through in a good way than something with steam and boiling water. It is a wish that the treatment should take place before the Mayreces. We try to meet that as a Chamber, but if that doesn't work...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u218	In short, you support Mr Schouw's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u219	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u220	I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u221	I support the proposal, otherwise the proposal will never be embraced by the CDA groups in the First and Second Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u222	I have already finished my amendments, but I can imagine that other groups would like to think carefully about them. As far as we are concerned, treatment does not necessarily have to take place before recess and can be done fine afterwards. We therefore support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u223	You support Mr Schouw's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u224	I support Mr Schouw's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u225	The sooner this bill is off the table, the better it's us. We do not give any support.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u226	If colleagues need to table an amendment to allow the legislative proposal to be adopted by a broad majority in the Chamber, the VVD Group believes that this is a good idea in itself. We would therefore like to accept a postponement. However, we agree that we must continue the debate on this matter by 24 April at the latest. That's my condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u227	That has been noted, but guarantees cannot be given, because it is a problem in terms of agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u228	As far as I am concerned, we are giving the requested space, but on condition that we have the second deadline by 24 April at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u229	There's no guarantee of that. We can only do our best. I note that a very large majority does not wish to continue the debate now. I shall therefore suspend the debate until a time to be determined. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his three-hour speech.
