ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst was sent on the road in November 2012 with a, as it turns out, almost impossible job. A majority of the House then wiped off the bill that would regulate the energy label. At that time, the Minister had to comply in a different way with the additional provisions of the revised European Energy Performance Buildings Directive. The Labour Party was in favour of the bill at the time. She was in favour because it is important that buyers, and later step by step all owners of homes, have a reliable picture of the energy performance of their homes. This is important because energy performance also determines housing costs, and because there is a challenge in low energy performance to save money by introducing insulating measures. Reasons for the majority of the Chamber to vote against the bill were the cost of around €200 per energy label and an anti-Europa sentiment. The Minister presented an alternative plan: the do-it-yourself label. Homeowners receive digitally a global indication that allows them to determine the label for a few tens over the internet. If the label is really important, for example for a mortgage, additional research and additional costs must be made. This creates multiple energy labels. The Minister has given the impression that this do-it-yourself label is reliable and that it can be complied with by the European directive. Yesterday, reports were published in Bouwformatie that Brussels considers the latter unlikely and has strong criticism of Dutch energy policy. The Minister would even deceive Brussels and risk a million-dollar fine. That's a big deal. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Does the Minister know this criticism and how does he judge it? Does the Minister agree with the Labour Party that the Netherlands has now become a frontrunner in the European rearguard, in terms of energy savings, because of the energy label? Does the Minister still think that the DIY label will enable him to comply fully with the EU directive in good time?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Vries' questions concern the implementation of the European Energy Performance Building Directive. It is a directive that obliges all European countries to ensure that an energy label is available, including in the case of purchases and sales of homes. Mr De Vries pointed out that an earlier proposal, made by my predecessors, but defended by me, could not count on a majority in the Chamber and that I have therefore come up with an alternative proposal. That was because of the importance of the case itself....................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Netherlands is in default. I have discussed the alternative proposal twice with the Commissioner responsible, Mr Oettinger. I've informed the Chamber about these conversations. In the conversations I outlined how I wanted to enter the energy label. The European Commission has not given its explicit approval, because it does not give its opinion until the legislation has come into force. From the discussions, however, I have concluded that the procedure we choose does not encounter blockades. However, I do not have real certainty until we have implemented the rules. Mr De Vries' question is whether I am aware of the criticism. In view of the procedure I have followed and the discussions I have had, I have no criticism from Europe that the energy label is contrary to European directives. The final assessment is still to be made, but Europe has had extensive information on our activities. In my opinion, the message that the Netherlands would have ended up as a frontrunner in the rearguard is incorrect. I think that with the energy agreement, which is widely supported in society, we have shown other European countries how to carry out very well and widely supported energy policies. Moreover, four countries have now been brought before the European Court of Justice for failing to comply with this energy directive. The Netherlands has not been brought before the Court. I therefore expect that with the energy label that will become available from 1 January, I will be able to comply with the European directive and, more importantly, that this can also make an important contribution to energy saving in homes. Yeah, I certainly expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	In any case, we disagree on the latter. We consider the route of that DIY label unnecessarily complicated and less sure for tenants and owners, less challenging for taking savings measures and financially very risky vis-à-vis Europe. Brussels has already failed the Netherlands twice. A third time means a fine of almost 100 million. Does the Minister see the disadvantages of the chosen route for the Dutch residential consumer as well? How does the Minister see the fact that private investors will use an inaccurate label in the housing valuation system? And how much does the Minister estimate the risks in the Netherlands getting a million-dollar fine on his pants? That article did not just fall out of the sky. I understand that there are really parts of Europe behind it that indicate that the Netherlands is seriously at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr De Vries first of all asks about the risk of a fine. If I didn't do something, we'd get a fine. The original bill could not count on a majority in the Chamber. The Netherlands must comply with this European directive. That is why I have come up with an alternative proposal, because of the environmental interest, because of the importance of the homeowner, but certainly also in order to avoid that fine. I have already indicated that Europe does not give any certainty in advance, but that I have left a feeling of confidence in the conversations. Mr De Vries also asked whether I think that this would give homeowners an unreliable label. I certainly don't think so. We offer an internet tool, which is also supposed to be used in 2015, with which people themselves at home behind the computer on the basis of an indication that they have received from us. In January, all homeowners will receive a letter with an indicative energy label, adding the renovations or the insulation for their home. They can use it to compose the energy label themselves. They will then also be able to identify which additional investments would be useful. At the time of sale, this energy label can be sent to a label expert. It should be, because there has to be a certified label in case of transfer. Because it can all be done online, we create a much cheaper procedure than it would be if that expert could actually inspect every time. So I avoid that homeowners needlessly end up with high costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	We really disagree. The Labour Party, when the Chamber shot off the bill for a reliable label, spoke to all kinds of people who did those inspections and asked whether the costs of these inspections could not be reduced. At that time it was said that if it happened collectively, costs could be reduced to €40 to €60. The price has already fallen to €80 for individual inspections. Now that price differences have virtually disappeared, doesn't the Minister regret, with the knowledge of today, that he hasn't taken the path of negotiating the price after all? That was one of the main problems the Chamber had with its proposal. I have one last question. Energy performance advisors, who trusted the previous label, also feel disadvantaged. They've filed a claim. Can the Minister inform us of the state of play on that claim?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	With regard to the claim of the energy performance advisors, I say the following. I imagine that a group of people who had prepared for the opportunity to make money using energy labels is disappointed that this cannot be done. That is, of course, the downside of the fact that the Dutch homeowners are not obliged to receive a high bill either. These energy performance advisors are disappointed. They filed a lawsuit against the government. They lost it. They are still open to appeal, but so far the judge has ruled that they did not have a case. I come to the price that will eventually have to be paid. The new law will enter into force on 1 January. The amounts I hear now are around three tens, and that is lower than the amounts Mr De Vries is talking about in the context of the old energy label. The aim of this measure, a cheaper but still solid energy label, seems to succeed there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	I don't see any follow-up questions. Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
