ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. We've had a good general discussion on animal testing. We have discussed several promising developments with the Secretary of State and she has promised to work with them and send a second progress report to the Chamber for the summer. Compliments and thanks for that. First of all, I would like to ask her to make a new assessment of a motion by the PvdD, which has already been tabled but which has been held, namely to indicate concrete objectives. I'm handing over this motion to get her to the Secretary of State. I would like to put this motion to the vote and I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this. On the only difference that we had during the general discussion, I would like to table another motion. In the Netherlands, many more animals are sacrificed for animal testing than in the press releases of the NVWA. When you read the report, you can see that it was almost 1.1 million animals in the past year, but in the news it was only talked about 526,000 animal experiments. That gives a distorted picture and it does not do justice to the Secretary of State's commitment to reducing the number of animals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its press releases on the annual report on animal testing, the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority always only mentions the number of animal experiments and not the total number of animals sacrificed as part of animal testing;]] [[Considering that due to the growing number of animals killed "in stock" in laboratories, mainly due to genetic engineering, the number of experimental animals sacrificed annually in the Netherlands is now around 1.1 million, but that this fact is hardly known, because the government press releases only mention the number of animal experiments, i.e. 526,000 in 2013;]] [[noting that such a distorted picture exists of the use of animals in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that public communication on animal testing includes the total number of animals sacrificed as part of animal testing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32336-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr. Chairman. In general discussions on animal testing, we have also talked about tests on monkeys. We will keep a close eye on its phasing-out, but we are nevertheless satisfied with the Secretary of State's efforts to reduce the number of animal experiments. It is good that the Secretary of State is also open to the opinion of the growing group of scientists who question the usefulness of animal testing and say that it can be 80% to 100% less. I do not have any motions because the Secretary of State has promised to come up with an ambitious agenda for this in order to actually reduce the number of animal experiments. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to include a number of issues. First of all, I would like to draw attention to Van Meer's research into animal testing and biopharmaceuticals. He says they have no added value. These are specific medicines. Scientist Ritskes-Hoitinga has also said that a lot of research should never have passed through the Ethics Committee on Animal Tests, because they do not meet the most basic requirements for scientific research, but that they have got through it anyway. Does the Secretary of State want to investigate how this could be done? Almost 90% of animal testing takes place without anesthesia. Is this really a "no, unless" policy? Is the Secretary of State prepared to include these three specific points in her letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr. Chairman. My favorite Secretary of State, my favorite Chairman and my favorite topic; what more do you want on this beautiful day? So I also have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u5	That is a very logical answer, says the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u6	To make everyone happy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that approximately 1,600 monkeys are kept in the Netherlands for scientific research, of which about 1,500 are at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC) in Rijswijk;]] [[Noting that in 2013 the Graus motion (32336, nr. 18), which called on the Government to carry out the reduction, replacement and refinement of monkey research as a matter of urgency;]] [[noting that the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences (KNAW) issued an opinion one year after the said motion on the usefulness and necessity of using non-human primates as a test animal without identifying specific phasing-out scenarios;]] [[calls on the Government to seek independent advice on possible phasing-out scenarios for the new policy on non-human primates as a test animal so that only strictly necessary research on monkeys will be carried out in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32336-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has recently discussed animal testing extensively in general consultation. As a result, I am standing here, not to put forward motions but to emphasise once again that the Netherlands is miles ahead of Europe in the field of animal welfare. We must give the Secretary of State the space and tranquillity to take steps in the refinement, replacement and reduction. The VVD is convinced that further rules, frameworks and additional assignments will only hinder the Secretary of State on this dossier. First, let us wait for the evaluation of the new Animal Experimentation Act and then see if there is a need for adjustment. In short, we are on the right track. No further adjustment is necessary now. We will therefore not support any efforts to strengthen the current policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u8	Mr. Chairman. Apart from animal welfare rules and so on, my sincere compliments on the Secretary of State's commitment to the incredibly complex but incredibly important issue of animal testing. I also congratulate her on her commitment to the animal welfare summit. These are the words I would very much like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u9	We would never have missed it. Can the Secretary of State answer immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u10	Just give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mr. Chairman. Before I give my opinion on the two motions that have been tabled and the motion that has been revived, I would like to give a few more specific answers to Mr Bashir's questions. It is true what he says: I do intend to achieve ambitious targets again in the coming year in order to reduce the number of animal experiments. This also applies to the number of animals that are kept in stock for possible use in animal experiments, but which, fortunately, are not often used in practice. I will engage with a number of critical scientists and involve them in the search for alternatives and the possibilities for reducing animal testing. In addition, I am looking specifically at the research for biopharmaceuticals. However, we cannot simply impose a ban on biopharmaceutical research, because it is important for the investigation of medicinal products. Sometimes there are legal international obligations that we have to abide by. If it turns out that there are opportunities to find alternatives to this research, too, I will try to set that up internationally. I will try to get it settled internationally so that we can promote the alternative to animal testing. In that sense, I would like to take up the request. So I want to get on with it, but that is an effort obligation, because we are sometimes simply bound by regulation. Mrs Ouwehand has tabled a motion in which she is actually asking for this to be done for the press releases of the NVWA. The annual report contains a passage about how we deal with animal testing in the Netherlands. It indicates the number of animals actually involved in animal testing and the number of animals kept in stock. I think it really goes too far, as I say here too, to let the Chamber decide how to draw up the press releases of the NVWA. The reports are public. There is also definitely a lot of discussion about the animals that are kept in stock. We'll just discuss that here. There's nothing secret about that. We are also working together to see how we can reduce the number of animals. I think that this way of violating the way in which a public service has to produce its press releases goes too far. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u12	One question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u13	How does the Secretary of State assess the fact that in the news cycles the reduction in animal testing last year was over 526,000 animals, but that there is no evidence here that the total number of animals is around 1.1 million? That's too bad. Since 2008, we have tried to raise this issue in the Chamber. Since 2013 we are only really talking about reducing the total number of animals here in The Hague. Doesn't the Secretary of State think it's about the number of animals? It is not a question of administrative and bureaucratic classification.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u14	It's not an administrative classification. It is very much about animals that are or are not used for animal testing. That goes far beyond an administrative classification. We've been working on it since 2013. That's definitely not a secret. Mrs Ouwehand knows my ambitions on this dossier to achieve a trend break in the number of animals kept in stock. That's what I'm communicating about. However, it should not deprive us of the opportunity to communicate positively when we see that the number of animal experiments in the Netherlands has fallen by 10%. I think it goes too far to decide from the Chamber how we can bring public information to humans.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u15	Proceed with the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u16	That is the motion that has already been tabled and which is being held asking for concrete objectives to be included in the second progress report. I said in the debate that I would consider doing so. In this sense, I feel an obligation to consider, in consultation with scientists, whether it is possible to set a target. In this motion, however, Mrs Ouwehand says: you must do it. That may be a subtle difference, but for me it is an important difference. That's why I advise against this motion. However, I do feel this commitment. I promised it to the Chamber, too. I ask Mrs Ouwehand whether it would not be wiser to hold the motion until the debate, in which we also respond to the question whether it is possible to achieve such an objective, to determine whether or not she is satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u17	We're talking about the motion in part No. 80 (33750-XIII), submitted on 7 November 2013. Mrs Ouwehand has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u18	I now have the choice of two things: either I hold the motion or I adjust it slightly so that it is in line with what the Secretary of State wants to do, namely to clarify what objectives could be reasonable in that second progress report. If I changed the motion that way, it would support her policy. So it is not a question of concrete objectives but of making clear what objectives the Secretary of State sees for himself after consulting the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u19	Yes, but in itself I don't need a motion for that, because I've already promised the Chamber. I have said that I want to assess whether it is possible to set specific objectives. That is the wording I would like to stick to. I can't see what that motion's gonna look like. So I'd say you just have to trust that I'm going to do that. If I don't do that well enough, Mrs Ouwehand always finds me first.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u20	The question to Mrs Ouwehand remains what she will do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u21	The coalition partners are yelling, "Keep it up!" The Secretary of State says I don't need a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u22	Well, don't keep us in suspense any longer!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u23	But I filed these a while ago, didn't I? So if the Secretary of State is doing what I ask of her now, then it is because we have been doing so before. I'll think about it. You'll hear it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u24	But for the time being, she's been filed. The motion previously held is therefore before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u25	Let there be no misunderstanding about it, so my advice remains: advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u26	Yes. So this was the motion in part No. 80 (33750-XIII). We're going to the motion on part number one. 38 tabled today by Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u27	That is the motion of the Member Schouw. We have also discussed this in detail. We have established that it would be good to share much more information with the Chamber about exactly what is happening at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre. We have also noted that, at the beginning of next year, we are sending that information to the Chamber and that it will be able to make a very precise assessment as to whether or not it considers it useful. So he was given the transparency that Mr Schouw asked for in that debate. The suggestion that there has been no independent advice is not correct. The Academy is independent. I must therefore ask Mr Schek whether he is not prepared to hold the motion and wait for the debate in the spring, also in view of the change in the debate and what he dragged in there. Otherwise, I must discourage the motion, because I cannot now see what independent advice other than that of the Academy Secretary of State Dekker and yours truly can still invoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u28	I am prepared to do so if the Secretary of State is prepared to repeat here, in this Chamber, what she has said in those other rooms, namely: I am also going to investigate possible phasing-out scenarios. This was also an important commitment from the Secretary of State. If she repeats that commitment here, I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u29	I promised at the time. I'm prepared to repeat that here. At that time I said: 'You can see the consequences of this, and you can decide with me what wisdom is in it.' That was exchanged in the debate. I repeat that here. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u30	At the request of Mr Schouw, I propose his motion (32336), No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u31	I raised three points for the Secretary of State. She went into one of them. Perhaps in the letter she has already promised, she would like to comment on the other two points: the ethics committee and the conduct of animal experiments without anesthesia.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u32	I think that's excellent. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u33	The vote will take place this evening on the motion and perhaps on two motions if Mrs Ouwehand leaves her motion.
