ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. Earlier this afternoon, he was in our midst. "I'm not getting out of here," I hear the Minister now. We're not gonna try that. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're dealing with the Navy Note today. The situation in Greece will also come. I shall return to that situation at the end of my speech. Traditionally, the treatment of the Autumn note is also a time when we look at how much money has remained on the shelf at the various ministries. I am talking about the so-called under-exhaustment. We are not yet at the end of the year, but around this time we can usually estimate fairly where money has not been spent. This year we are talking about EUR 425 million. The whole of the Chamber thinks education is very important. This year, EUR 100 million remain on the table in the Ministry of Education. The annual report over the last two years has shown that it is worth over 200 million. How much of this underexhaustment of the past two years has flowed back to the treasury? How much has been taken to the next financial year through the end-of-year margin? The table in the written replies shows that OCW is structurally in the leading group of ministries with under-exhaustment. What's that all about? I would like to propose to the Chamber that the under-exhaustment of 100 million in the Ministry of Education should be invested in that education this year. I therefore propose that this money should not be returned to the general budget. So we are talking about the same coverage as that used by the government last year. That's $650 million. I'll make it concrete. My group proposes to use the 100 million in primary education. This is what we are talking about. Many primary schools suffer from a shortage of money. There are several reasons for this, but especially shrinkage is a reason. The number of students is falling, reducing income. Schools must therefore fire teachers and increase their classes. Those teachers still have to be paid for some time, which increases the burden on those schools. With $100 million, we can help those schools close the gaps. As a result, they are able to keep teachers and teachers they have recently hired in service. These are the first people to go out in a round of dismissals. These teachers can stay in service in this way, to replace their older colleagues in due course when they retire. I will table an amendment on this. I come to the EU's post-tax of EUR 1.1 billion. That is, of course, a striking point in the Navy's note.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u3	I am trying to understand Mr Merkies' proposal that he just did. There's the year-end margin. You can just figure it out. It'll be 330 million or 340 million. Now Mr Merkies has an amendment to the 2014 budget. What is he proposing in concrete terms? Does he suggest that we do not go on vacation at primary schools next week, to make up that money this year? Normally, there is always the end-of-year margin for education. So you can take money with you to next year. So what exactly is the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u4	The proposal is to make the 100 million that has not yet been spent available to schools. It's a little similar to what happened to that 650 million last year. That money should be made available to schools in the form of an addition to the lumpsum. The schools can continue to pay the salaries of teachers they have just taken up during the period they are dealing with shrinkage. They don't have to fire the schools again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u5	So that money has to be spent on those schools this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u7	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u8	I had come to the EU's post-tax. My colleague, Mr Bashir, has, of course, already talked about this in detail during the debate on this post-tax. He has outlined why my group cannot agree to this. We objected to the fact that other countries apparently have to pay less, because they have their administrative data worse in order. We think it is a little far-reaching that we should be punished for setting a good example. First of all, make sure that these datasets are in order so that we do not have to deal with completely incomparable calculations of the payments to Europe. Also, make sure that Eurostat checks the accuracy and quality of the data provided better first. We have asked for this many times. Developments in Greece follow each other very quickly. I am concerned that once again, under pressure, we must agree to something whose purpose and consequences are unclear. In the general ECOFIN consultation we always conduct before the Minister talks with the other finance ministers in Europe, I did not ask for nothing about the so-called technical extension of the current support programme, which was apparently in the process. This extension was not yet officially on the annotated agenda, but it is clear that agreement was reached on 8 December. There are several things going on, namely the finalisation of the current programme, the fifth tranche, a possible new support programme that should not be called "the elections' and "the elections'. To get some order, I have a lot of questions for the Minister. I've already sent those to his officials, so I'm sure I'll get the answers. Who came up with the technical extension proposal? Is that Greece itself or is that one of the Troika's partners? What exactly is technically about this technical extension? If it is a technical extension, why is it only now? Didn't they know that before? Does this mean that the Greeks can borrow longer, so they will have to pay back later? What is the main reason that this has been chosen? Does it have anything to do with what will happen tomorrow, namely that the Greek Parliament will vote on the successor of the current President? Samaras' surprising announcement that this vote would suddenly take place in the very short term came a few hours after the euro group was together. Was it also a surprise for the Minister or was this discussed with the other finance ministers of the euro area countries in the consultations? Why were those votes even brought forward? If there was no technical extension and therefore should be negotiated on new aid rather soon, you can imagine that this would not be good for the current Samaras government. It may then have to make commitments to the Troika or to the ESM in the period prior to the election of the President to the Greek Parliament and ultimately in the run-up to the general elections. Does this play a part or is it a coincidence that Samaras' current scheme has been chosen in this way, i.e. a combination of the early vote and the extension of the support programme? A confidant of Samaras said there would be a win-win situation for him: even if he lost, he would still win because the voters will blame Syriaza for the chaos that has arisen. That will assure him of victory in the national elections. According to the Troika, since the previous Eurogroup meeting in November, Greece has made progress on the elements of the Fifth Progress Mission that are still open. Completion of the progress mission is no longer within reach by the end of the year. That is why a technical extension has been proposed. What I am wondering is whether there really is a technical extension or whether this is no longer politically motivated. Can the Minister assure us that this technical extension has nothing to do with the political situation in Greece, with the forthcoming elections and with Syria's potential profit? I am concerned about the democratic process in Greece. What did Juncker mean when he expressed hope for Austrian television that the Greeks would not vote wrong? Can the Minister give me this answer? Who was Juncker talking about when he said he wouldn't want extreme powers to come to power? Is the Minister also wondering this and, if so, what is his response to it? Does the Minister consider it appropriate for the President of the European Commission to give voting advice? Finally, there is still a risk in the democratic field. I can imagine that the small group of parliamentarians that now needs to be crossed is being talked into. How is it ensured that this does not involve unhonorable practices? I have another question about the HFSF, the Greek bank fund. The Troika has proposed to extend the availability of still available resources in the HFSF in parallel with the technical extension of the programme. Can the Minister brief us on what was originally intended? Would available resources actually be released when the support programme was due to expire? I understand that it is up to the EFSF to extend the availability of these HFSF funds. Should the Minister give his consent to this? On the basis of what insight has the Minister come to the conclusion that he would like to spend the money from the EFSF temporary emergency fund a little longer in the Greek banking sector? I have one more question about the new support package that is coming. It seems to be a package in the form of a credit line: the ECCL. The Minister can of course say that this is quite different from a loan and that it is not an aid package, and that is true, but it does create the possibility of a loan. Then the question is how these forms differ from each other, because you can take out a loan with them. Finally. Does the Minister ever think: should we not have done good debt restructuring once in May 2010 than have to come up with money over and over again? Hasn't there been too much wishful thinking about Greece's debt sustainability? Does the Minister consider the current debt, which, according to my latest information, amounts to 177%, to be sustainable? How high must the debt be to be sustainable? What is the Minister's forecast for future Greek debt sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u9	Madam President. In the Financial Reviews three months ago, I drew a comparison between a government that reforms, improves the functioning of the economy and makes the country more competitive, as here in the Netherlands, and governments that do not reform, but fill the gaps with other holes. Those countries are known. In the end, it is the inhabitants of the country themselves who find it difficult to deal with the burden of the governments. In the Netherlands, we are beginning to see results, primarily thanks to the more than 8 million hard-working entrepreneurs and workers, who put their shoulders under it when it was hard and when they also faced a lot of nasty but necessary measures. Secondly, thanks to the Rutte Cabinets, which have been working consistently and in spite of many critics on putting public finances in order, making necessary improvements and working on the future growth and competitiveness of the Netherlands. I really think that this is a greater achievement than leaning only on the lower euro exchange rate and oil prices, as critics now claim with ease. See the countries that are affected by the same phenomena, but where it is less. As much as many people would have liked the measures to have been less drastic, it could not have been otherwise. In the Netherlands too, as in southern Europe, things could have gone differently: necessary innovations for you to extend, even more public funds to lend and thus Keynesian is supposedly going to stimulate the economy. The VVD is glad this didn't happen. It would have been a recipe for many years of constant misery. We see the results now. As in other countries in the EU that have implemented major reforms, economic growth is returning here, and thus the perspective. Last week, the latest forecasts of the Central Planning Bureau and the Netherlands Bank showed that the foundation under our economy is strengthening and the growth forecasts have been slightly revised upwards. It is also evident from the Navy note we are discussing today. There are no major shifts left, which is indicative of the fact that the budget has come into calmer waters after difficult years of balance management. However, we are not yet in budgetary utopia. As far as financial considerations are concerned, I have already advocated that we continue to give careful estimates. We need this caution to ensure that it does not get out of hand again in the future. After all, we have made the government smaller, and the VVD would like to keep it that way. We are heading back in the right direction, but there are some assassins in the budget that we need to keep an eye on. I'll give you three. We already know the first one. It is the euro area and in particular the level of debt and the weakness of some countries in relation to the Stability and Growth Pact. The deficit has been greatly reduced by the current government and will fall even further in the coming years. However, debt levels are still high, so the buffer in emergency situations is not very large at the moment. Think back to the shock test in the Millions Note. The government can't charge for that, because first she had to close the leak in the deficit. We are now on the right track towards a budget surplus. Possibly in abundance I report that the VVD considers this highly necessary. At the same time, it is the reason why the VVD wants a more stringent and not too flexible attitude towards the SGP. We do not want a revival of the euro crisis, if only because our resilience to shocks is precarious. That is why we have been so keen in recent months that France, Italy and now Belgium must be kept to their commitments. I expect the Minister to continue his firm language against these countries next year. The debt levels and the SGP agreements bring me to the second assassin. We have all become spectators of a sad spectacle. I am referring to the strong differences of opinion within the ECB. The President of the Netherlands Bank, Mr Knot, made a very good plea in the Chamber last month, in which he said that low inflation, even if it continues for a long time, does not automatically lead to deflation. He also said that the ECB should take the time to bring about the policy that has been put forward and that QE, quantitative easing, is not a solution to the current problems in the European economy. Yet it is becoming more and more like we are stuck somewhere next year with a form of QE. I call it monetary messiness in our currency union. Monetary policy is being designed independently and we are in full agreement with it. Should this threat arise, it is all the more a matter for the Minister and the politicians to keep the pressure to reform on the euro countries. Buying up government bonds can take the pressure off for countries like France. That must be countered. Speaking of problem countries, I call Greece and the technical extension. In itself, I think it would be wise to extend the Greek programme for two months, but these two months should be used to the full to implement the latest reforms. It is precisely that that depends on good Greek use for a few days by fighting domestic political feuds and making the rest of Europe watch. How does the Minister look at this and how will he and the other ministers of the euro area ensure that Greece takes full advantage of the time to comply with all previous agreements? Finally, I would like to mention a subject that I have raised on a number of occasions, namely the urge to resolve matters with guarantees and guarantees. The fact that a risk no longer stands as a flow of money in the budget but as a guarantee does not mean that the risk is no longer there. Think also of the public finance shock test and the Millions note. Are we supposed to want to solve everything with a guarantee? With the warranty testing framework we have a good test for guarantees. The framework is clear: phasing out where possible. However, we cannot really speak of an explosive reduction in guarantees. In the Autumn note it appears to be 113 million out of more than 200 billion. Many guarantees are legally established and therefore will not be reduced at all. What is the Minister's expectation for the coming years? At the end of the old year we can see over 2014. It is a year in which a great deal has happened to greatly improve the foundation of public finances. Think of major new laws, such as the decentralisation of the Youth Services, the Wlz, the Participation Act, the study advance, the new establishment of the housing corporation system and pensions. The major reforms are all in place. Next year, we will be working on the success of all kinds of reforms that have been implemented. The changes that politics has talked about in recent years must become normal in practice. In the coming year, confidence in the housing market must also be able to continue to grow. Next year, entrepreneurs will have to regain the certainty and confidence that rules and burdens for them will not be different the following year, so that they will dare to hire people again. You can see it's moving in the right direction, but at the same time, too many people are still on the sidelines. With all this policy, we give the Dutch the confidence, peace and space to live their own lives as they wish, to take care of themselves and the people around them and to continue to grow financially out of the crisis in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u10	When's the first interruption coming? Maybe I shouldn't say this. Mr. Chairman. It's autumn. This applies not only to the season in which we are now, but also to the state of Dutch public spending. The deficit will be 2.9% and the debt around 70%. The outlook is moderately bleak or moderate; it is only with which glasses you look at it. The CDA likes to look at it with realistic glasses. The world is on fire. Fortunately, unemployment is falling slightly but is still far too high. The growth of the global economy is disappointing. Especially in Europe, the lights are on orange. It is therefore still important not to slacken up public finances. This is all the more so since, apart from the positive scenarios, which are and will be rightly outlined by the coalition parties, there are also risks of a deepening crisis, given what is currently happening with Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East as well as in the financial markets. Unfortunately, that is a realistic scenario, not a cheerful one. A mixed picture emerges from the 2014 Autumn Note. On average, the Minister of Finance comes out roughly with his figures compared to the figures and the state of the 2015 Millions Note, but they are much better compared to those of the 2014 Millions Note. There are setbacks, which are compensated by windfalls. However, the CDA finds it extraordinary that many of the windfalls and setbacks were created by the Minister himself without the Chamber having anything to say about them. For example, on Prinsjesdag, the government introduced an additional expenditure in 2014 for the reception of asylum seekers, as well as an additional expenditure for emergency aid. Now it turns out that these posts for the vast majority are not issued in 2014 but are moved on to subsequent years, and then suddenly this is presented as a windfall. These windfalls, together with other budgetary windfalls, represent exactly the 1.1 billion needed to meet the post-tax on EU payments as early as 2014 on 30 December. That's a coincidence. There is a kind of French smell of creative accounting around it, and it doesn't like it: in September there are disappointments and so the budget deficit is going up by 0.2%, and less than three months later the failures are again blighting, but the deficit is not getting smaller. Can the Minister indicate in which recess he will be educated by Mr Hans Klok? Anyway, I also have more serious questions. The Room...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u11	Before you continue with more serious questions, I give Mr Nijboer the opportunity to ask you a serious question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u12	We did it, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u13	I look forward to more serious questions and also to a more serious input. A certain suggestion is being made. The budget was discussed in the Chamber in September, and it proved to be disappointing and disappointing. Then there was the follow-up charge of 1.1 billion. It only became known a few weeks ago and everyone was surprised. And then Mr Omtzigt says: in September the cabinet saw that post-tax coming and that's why people are accounting creatively and Hans Klok is in power here. That doesn't make any sense at all, does it? Where does Mr Omtzigt come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u14	The coalition will need a number of magicians and magicians tonight. But apart from that, I said something else, and here's what I said. A number of setbacks were presented in the autumn, in the post assistance and at the post reception asylum seekers, which have not been realistically estimated. That's what I wanted to say. Now they lead to underspending. You put aside almost $500 million for emergency aid, but you can only spend $100 million of it. How is it that this has not been realisticly estimated in the Millions Note? That's my question. In a moment I come to the other posts, such as education and AIVD, where there is also a deviation, but that deviation comes from a different angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u15	Mr Omtzig has just linked the first, the underutilization, to the 1.1 billion, which was still completely unknown at the time. He says that it was all very coincidental and that it all looked like nothing in terms of budgetary policy. Actually, he insinuated that the cabinet would have done it this way. However, I see that Mr Omtzig takes back that insinuation in his answer to my first question. I am delighted about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u16	Already in the spring, the government indicated that it had made a reservation of 600 million for this purpose and that it was subsequently withdrawn. The 1.1 billion may be a surprise, that 600 million was by no means. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u17	Please continue with your speech. "A serious question," that was the last thing you said. I'll see you looking in your lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u18	Yes, but I had also said a number of things from the sequel. This way, it's hard to make firm decisions. We ask the government to seek a different way of budgeting, which makes a realistic estimate of expenditure, especially in these two items. The biggest surprise in this Autumn note is, of course, the follow-up of 1.1 billion. The government would like to transfer these on 30 December. This is an understandable action by the Minister of Finance, because by transferring the post-tax this year, he will create additional room for expenditure next year. There will therefore be a piece of restitution, at least that is our suspicion. Can the government not commit to putting forward proposals for additional expenditure in 2015, other than by making additional cuts in public expenditure? Collaborators will have to go towards reducing the burden and budget deficit next year, because we are 2.9% surprisingly close to 3%. We have had several debates on the post-taxation and we have expressed our displeasure clearly. So far, the Minister has refused to allow a thorough investigation into the way in which the statistics, on which the post-tax is based, have been produced in other countries. In our view, this is an incomprehensible attitude. We would have preferred it if we had first checked the statistics, which will take place in the coming year, and then paid the post-tax. We find it extremely strange that that order has been reversed. I am trying, on the basis of a Member's individual right to ask questions: where is the letter from the Permanent Representation of 17 October in which the additional payment was discussed? Why couldn't it even be given confidentially to the House of Representatives? Where is the European Commission's request for payment of the 1.1 billion? That request appears to have been made on 21 November, but it is not sent to the Chamber either. The only thing sent to the Chamber is a request for payment. We would also have liked to have been able to see the correspondence behind it in the context of the control we are carrying out on the government. This cannot be done within democratic control! We ask the government to wait until we have been able to see the documents and until the statistics have been checked. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. The CDA's displeasure about the post-levy does not relieve us of the duty to look at the windfalls as well. It is good to see that this year's budgetary frameworks show care and social security underspending. Each subsequent piece of the budget cycle over the past year shows a reduction in costs within these frameworks. This is a direction of hope. To what extent are these reductions structural? Will the Minister also reduce the expenditure frameworks to ensure that the reduction in the burden in these frameworks can become structural? One lucky guy isn't the other. In this respect, the expenditure on defence is very remarkable. There's 68 million less invested than budgeted. The CDA would welcome a reduction in spending in many departments. What's going on at the Department of Defense? The world is on fire, we have had to make an extra effort for the MH17, the fires in Ukraine send their ripples this way and yet we are underutilized. It's unbelievable to the CDA that in these times of heavy cuts in Defense, the government cannot spend the reserved budget for Defense. Is the government prepared to ensure that expenditure on defence is up to the level in 2015? Or even higher according to the motion of the SGP? The under-spending on the budget of the Ministry of Education is also a striking point. Mr Merkies already referred to this. Looks like we had to invest blindly in education, a D66 party, but it doesn't come to spending. This isn't the first time. Even at the end of 2013, when the finance minister pulled his wallet and pulled 600 million out of it, schools didn't know what to do with that money. How does the minister suggest that there's money left in this ministry? Should we not first find well-behaved plans for additional expenditure on this important policy area and then spend the money instead of just thinking that we need to throw it? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. The same applies to the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u19	However, I would like to respond to Mr Omtzigt's remarks on education money. In December 2013, we just transferred the money we agreed on in the autumn agreement to the schools for the lumpsum payment to which Mr Merkies just referred. So that was for the financing of the schools themselves, for overdue maintenance or compensation for increased energy schemes. That kind of thing. So that money really went to the schools. The under-exhaustment we are seeing now comes from the rest of the budget. The link that Mr Omtzigt makes is that there is money left that has not gone to the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u20	There is an underexhaustment on education; Mr Merkies already indicated that. I find that somewhat careless in the planning. Education is fairly well planned. On other files, on which I'll be back in a minute, that's different. At the beginning of the year, we know about how many students are in which cohort. This is not the case with floods or animal diseases. In the case of animal diseases, we know that even in December the avian flu may break out, however much we do not want it to. Once again, at the end of the year, we come forward with proposals: will we make some payments to the schools during the last week? What has just been proposed by Mr Merkies, I do not think is a steady policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u21	I agree with that, but my point was that Mr Omtzigt made the suggestion that something had just been thrown away with money that had not been spent. And that's not right. I assume that Mr Omtzig is...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u22	No, if it hasn't been spent, it hasn't been thrown. But it has been said: we're going to spend it. Apparently, there weren't enough plans available at the time to figure out how we're going to spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u23	Please continue. Oh, Mr Merkies, of course, feels challenged. Of course, Mr Merkies, go ahead. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u24	Well, just for the stenogram. Mr Omtzigt said: Mr Merkies' proposals. But I don't think that's what he meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u25	Then perhaps I misunderstood your proposals, because I think you wanted to transfer extra money to the schools in the last week of December in order to spend it. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u26	I wanted, similar to last year, to send that money, which we both believe should not remain on the shelf, to schools that are now dealing with shrinkage and therefore have a problem with new teachers they have just hired and will have to fire again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u27	Well, the plans have been explained, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u28	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u29	Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u30	Mr Nijboer still has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u31	Yeah, about education, because it's so pregnant. Additional funding has been provided for education by the coalition, but also by the three supporting opposition parties. Mr Omtzigt makes the connection that these funds are not being used, but I do not see that at all. I see a 20-million-dollar windfall. There is therefore less expenditure than expected at the performance fair and the travel facility, as less donations have been made than expected. That amounts to 1, 2 or 3 billion, and we have a two-time 20 million windfall. I also see something in the Caribbean of 7 million, and 14 million in housing state museums. That adds up to around 100 million. Can Mr Omtzigt explain his reasoning? I also try to follow the CDA a little bit in budgetary terms, but it takes so much effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u32	That is indeed an under-exhaustment of 100 million. And since the parties wanted to spend this on education, I'm curious how that came about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u33	But I read that to Mr Omtzig. There are all things...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u34	Well, generally...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u35	No, Mr Nijboer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u36	All things are estimated at a budget of more than 30 billion. We have 20 million left at the performance fair and the travel facilities. It was expected that these would be gifts, but apparently people deserved enough, got a job or paid back more than exactly estimated. For example, there are a number of those posts, which add up to 100 million. That has nothing to do with the investments we have agreed on in MBO, in primary education, in teachers or in more schools. So there's no connection at all. That can be read very precisely in the Navy's Note. Mr Omtzigt knows that too, and yet he keeps a whole line of reasoning which does not go far enough. That's special, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u37	It is remarkable that these parties, who so much like to spend extra money on education, find it normal that there is money left in education. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the AIVD. Due to the Jojo policy of the cabinet, the AIVD spends 5.5 million less this year than budgeted. The AIVD anticipated the austerity of the cabinet, but could not anticipate back when it appeared that the austerity was reversed. This austerity has been strongly criticised by several opposition parties, including the CDA, in the treatment of the coalition agreement. So there was just too little staff to spend the budget. This must have a hard negative effect. In secret services it is a bit difficult to check which tasks have not been done. In times of advancing jihadism and under pressure of security in the Netherlands, these are things where you can see that changing the budget too late or from plans leads to real problems where they should not be. Then I come to a point that we cannot avoid: excise duties on fuel. It appears that the government is heading towards a fall of 300 million compared to the estimates of the Millions Note from over a year ago. We have warned about this several times. Will the government finally acknowledge that increasing fuel taxes was not such a good plan? Is the Minister prepared to reverse this, or... the increase not to be implemented in 2015 now that Germany is freezing its excise duty in 2015? The pump holders in the border area will be happy with you and so will the CDA. Last week it was announced that the Dutch State will borrow for over €94.4 billion next year. About half of this is borrowed on the money market. That means a government debt with a loan of up to a year. With historically low interest rates, one might think that the government debt should be fixed for a longer period of time. Then you have security for a longer time and if something happens on the financial markets, the State does not immediately have major financing problems. Does the Minister share this view and is he prepared to consider whether the government can finance public debt a little longer, including through fixed loans instead of derivatives, so that it is a more stable market environment? Then there's one more question I sent in. The First Chamber has just rejected the bill on vertical integration. This should have an impact on next year's budget, in terms of how the care allowance and the level of the care premium are dealt with. Can the government indicate, for the second time in this debate, what impact this has on the budget that we are dealing with at the moment and what impact this has on the health policies that have already been completed? After all, there are people who have concluded a health insurance policy that is now not legally possible. We are very interested in the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u38	You've got 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u39	Then I'll leave it to this last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u40	Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u41	Mr. Chairman. You can't ask much more in 20 seconds, but maybe I'm wrong about that. The Autumn note and the CPB estimate show that the Netherlands is getting better again. Employment is rising, economic growth is rising and the deficit is falling. Some attribute this to purely external factors. Oil prices are low, the euro exchange rate is favourable to exports and the world economy is attracting. That's all true, but according to the PvdA that's not just the explanation. Cabinet policy, together with support from other parties, has laid the foundations for that economic recovery. It took some courage to restore public finances, to reform the housing market, to make the labour market fairer and to restructure the financial sector. This has provided the basis for a healthy economic recovery, the projected decline in unemployment and the creation of additional jobs. The security that has finally been created, after 10 to 20 years, by clarifying the mortgage interest deduction contributes to the revival of the housing market. With the new labour market law, there is more certainty for people with flexible contracts. The approach ofzzp-constructions that push out jobs provides more security for people. There is also the approach of the financial sector that is once again serving society. Anyone who thinks that just sitting still, keeping tabs and wet is the right political and economic foundation to get out of this crisis, as some political parties claim, is wrong. On the other hand, some think it would be wise to make additional cuts now, to do even more, to reform even harder and to stir up the unrest, such as shortening the WW to a year, to increase its own risk to €500 and to ask for its own contribution to domestic aid. Anyone who thinks that this will lead to a stronger economy is not right either, according to the PvdA. What is needed is for the cabinet to keep course and implement the laws that have been passed. The laws have been passed here and in the Upper House most of them, but the real work starts at the time of implementation. Although unemployment is falling and employment is rising, unemployment is still too high. Fighting these remains top priority for the Labour Party. In addition to structural measures for the labour market, care, the financial sector and the housing market, the PvdA Group has requested an incentive package. We also see that it works. I mention the start-up loan in relation to the housing market, the grant exemption, the VAT reduction for construction and pension funds that invest more in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, the PvdA Group continues to urge the cabinet to work on the stimulus package. It is said and committed by pension funds that they invest more, but the question is how much it will be and whether this can go even further than what has been promised. The under-utilisation of SME lending, which we have already discussed in the budgetary process, is a thorn in the eye of the PvdA Group. The same applies to investment in renewable energy. This budget must be used as much as possible; this has also been made available for it. What also helps is that purchasing power is increasing, with slightly more than foreseen in the autumn. This increase could become even greater if companies that have the room for it also increase wages in the sectors where this can be done. This increase could also increase if the limitation of pension contributions resulting from the new financial review framework is actually put in people's pockets. We have agreed on nine safeguards, which have also been shared with the Chamber. I ask the Minister whether that money actually ends up in the people's wallet. After all, it is their premium money and it would also help the economy. I have three final points. The first concerns the financial sector and interventions. We see that interventions have been limited by more than half in recent years. It was over 80 billion and it is now 40 billion less, and in the coming period the interventions will decrease even further. I refer to the rejection of ABN AMRO and insurers. The PvdA Group attaches importance to a protection structure for ABN AMRO; we have also tabled a motion on this together with the CDA, in which the Minister is asked to look at different variants. The PvdA Group also asks about the implementation of the Nijboer/Koolmees motion. Another important part of the financial sector is to make banks healthy and increase buffers and leverage ratio. We have tabled a motion on prudent dividend policy in state participations to raise leverage ratio. How's that relationship planned for next year? My second point concerns Greece. The PvdA Group supports the two-month extension but asks the Minister to exert maximum pressure on at least two agreements. The first concerns the reform of tax collection; people and businesses should simply pay taxes there as they should and as they do in every European country. The second concerns the fight against corruption. In Greece, corruption is a permanent and structural problem that requires all attention and effort. My third point concerns Russia. We are in a situation where the roubles are falling sharply, interest rates are already above 17% and oil prices are under pressure. I ask the Minister what consequences are foreseen for the European economy and the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u42	Mr. Chairman. Time for another sound. It was nothing and it's not gonna work. Next year won't be much better than this year. If the economy is already attracting a bit, it is thanks to the low euro, low inflation and low oil prices. So not thanks to this cabinet, but rather despite it, because this cabinet is doing everything it can to curb the economic recovery with more cuts in the coming years of 12.5 billion and more burdens of 2 billion. Because what does the cabinet have in store for us next year? Taxes go up again by 1.6 billion: on labour, on tap water, on energy, on driving, on waste and on real estate. The ozb, the home forfait; everything goes up. Excise duties will continue to rise again next year, as well as the care premium and the risk involved. The rents continue to rise and the retirement age continues to rise. As a blow to the head, 6 million people receive a tax tax. Everything is going up, while this is precisely the time to lower taxes, so that people have more to spend. That could strengthen the upward trend. But no, the cabinet holds on to its course and squeezes the economy further. It has done what Brussels asked him to do, and with that it has actually been ruled out; mission accomplished. Brussels asked the cabinet to bring the deficit below 3%. It has done so, by 2.9%, but the result is that the economy has shrunk by 2.5% over the last two years, that we now have 627,000 unemployed and that we are 23,000 bankruptcies richer. Brussels has asked for reform of the labour market. Indeed, this cabinet has deformed the labour market. People get fired massively. Never before have so many people been on welfare; never! 425.000 people are in welfare and 419.000 people are in WW. More than 830,000 people are dependent on benefits. The cabinet promises jobs, but all we see is layoffs. The 600 million sector plans have not so far created jobs, according to research. For next year, it looks bleak. Whoever has followed the news, I hope that my colleagues will know that there will be a wave of redundancies in the coming year: 2,800 jobs at ING, 1,000 jobs at ABN, 750 jobs at SNS, 580 jobs at KPN, 1,200 jobs at SBM Offshore, 320 jobs at Philips and 600 jobs at Brink's. At KLM, at BAM, at Ahold, at Wegener; everywhere people are fired in the coming year. I am not even talking about the 50,000 people who are at risk of losing their jobs in health care. The expectation is that in the middle of next year there will be a further wave of redundancies, because this will make firing people cheaper and easier, thanks to the cabinet. So, Minister, where are these jobs? I see nothing but redundancies so far and in the future. At the request of Brussels, the long-term care will be dealt with again next year, or in fact largely abolished. The cabinet throws everything over the fence of the municipalities and insurers. That's how this care gets undressed. The Netherlands as a whole will have a cut of 2.3 billion next year. The whole of the Netherlands therefore holds its heart, including Secretary of State Van Rijn. One thing is certain: many billions of savings are being made and many thousands of people will lose their jobs. Care for our elders will never be the same again. At the dictation of Brussels, the housing market was also restored. As a result, prices have fallen by more than 20%. 1.5 million people are now underwater. What does the Cabinet do? The cabinet is doing everything it can to nip the fragile recovery of the housing market in the bud by further tightening the mortgage rules next year. How stupid can you be? The LTV goes down, the LTI goes up, the start-up subsidy is abolished, the mortgage interest deduction goes down, the grant exemption is reduced and the NHG limit is lowered; all cases where the early recovery of the housing market falls back. Brussels also demanded that pensions be addressed. Well, we knew that. The age of AOW was increased, the structure was reduced and the indexing was made more difficult. With a record of 1.2 trillion in cash, we've never been so poor. The powder vapours of this degradation policy are slowly increasing. The Dutch citizens hang half murw beaten in the ropes and see stars, but the cabinet sees bright spots. Then there's the post-tax. On paper, our economy has apparently grown by 45 billion thanks to statisticians. This means that we will get a post-tax from Brussels, a fine because we did so well, of 1.1 billion. This minister for the PVV is incomprehensiblely eager to transfer this amount. He won't pay it next September; he'll pay it before the end of the year. In 2014, the Netherlands will pay a record amount of 8.5 billion euros to Brussels. In other words, that EU membership costs a family in the Netherlands more than €1,100 per year. That money could normally have been spent in the Netherlands, but now flows to Poland for noise shields for cows, Spain, Portugal or to airports where no plane is landing, as we read today. Then there's the emergency aid jar. Mr Omtzigt already mentioned it: it is indeed magic with figures if you budget 570 million in the Million Note for emergency aid in the knowledge that in December you can book a windfall of 470 million. You knew in advance that you could never spend that amount in 2014. The question is why it happened. The money for this emergency aid, or €670 per family, could also have been spent in the Netherlands. Then there's the asylum seekers. 740 million is now available for freshman care. While care for the elderly is being broken down, the red carpet is explained for asylum seekers. Almost 800 million are being released to accommodate this group; no wonder holiday parks and nursing homes are being transformed into asylum centres. This asylum scheme costs every family €100 per year, just for the first year of care. That money could have been spent differently. And then there is the excise duty. There is a setback of 300 million, as Mr Omtzigt said. However, the cabinet stoically clings to the excise duty, even in 2015. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has the highest petrol price in Europe. The revenue from excise duty leaks away to our neighbouring countries, but the cabinet is looking away. The border regions pay the price. Research carried out by BOVAG shows that 8,200 jobs are lost because of these increases in excise duties and that they therefore do not give the Treasury anything but half a billion costs. And then, as a blow to the flames, the tobacco tax will be increased again. After a substantial increase in excise duty of €0.35 per package last year, a further €0.009 will now be added. In the border regions, the difference between Germany and Belgium is already more than €1. Now it's gonna be €1,09. The question to this minister is whether he has already received a bunch of flowers from Belgium and Germany. Because with €0.30 difference for a litre of gasoline and more than €1 on a pack of cigarettes, it is of course very easy to make money for the Germans and the Belgians. After years of surrendering, purchasing power will increase slightly next year, but that's ten-tone work. Consumption is expected to attract something and unemployment is declining slightly, but this is due to oil prices and inflation. And let's not cheer too soon. We saw consumer confidence decrease again in the last month, house sales will fall back next year due to stricter mortgage rules and consumption is still at the 2005 level after three years. So we are rather in a period of stagnation. The way up is still far to be found and very uncertain by all external factors. The PVV therefore finds it incomprehensible that the cabinet is no longer doing anything to support the economic recovery. This is the time to reduce the burden and increase purchasing power, because if oil prices rise again, the economy in the Netherlands will collapse again like a plum pudding. This cabinet is still on the brakes, while the Netherlands is longing for relief and economic recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u43	Mr. Chairman. It is time for a different sound, because I would like to begin today with a compliment to the Minister of Finance. The 2014 budget looks better towards the end of the year than when we started. We started with a deficit of 3.3%; that is now 2.9%. It is moving slowly and we are far from there, but the picture also looks a lot better for many years. There are no great surprises in the Navy's note, apart from the European Union's post-taxation. In fact, the Navy's note is quite clear. Slowly, the budget is moving in the right direction. On the 2014 budget, I have only a few specific questions. That is why I would particularly like to look ahead in this debate. We see that things are getting better. The economy is growing faster than estimated, companies are hiring more and more people, fewer and fewer companies are going bankrupt, consumer confidence is increasing, and so I can continue. However, the fact that things are moving in the right direction does not mean that things are going well. The ice of the economy is still too thin to skate on. There are still many problems that block further growth. First of all, in Europe. The new European Commission has presented its package for growth and jobs. D66 supports Juncker's so-called triangle: sound public finances, continuing structural reforms and detaching investment. Meanwhile, France and Germany hold each other in a hold. France wants Germany to invest and Germany wants France to reform. A political stalemate. The ECB has so far bought time. With his unconventional policy, Draghi ensured calm markets and low interest rates. However, the ECB's trickbox does not offer any structural solutions. Inciting the money press to buy up government bonds may indeed offer more time, but I do not think that that is wise at all. It's time for action. Just last week, Fitch reduced the credit rating of France one more step. The markets are putting pressure on Greece again. That is where the support programme has stalled and there will be new elections. This remains a risk to the euro area. If all Member States commit themselves to the 3% rule and reform France and Italy, Germany can indeed have the reins celebrated and with additional investment drive the European economy. Wouldn't that be a deal that's really moving Europe forward? In this context, I would also like to hear about the plans of the four Presidents. The Minister for Finance, in his capacity as President of the Eurogroup, together with Mr Draghi, Mr Tusk and Mr Juncker, writes a report aimed at giving political guidance to the Juncker Commission. My question is, what is the situation with this? Does the new growth deal launched by the Minister in Washington in October really bring that growth closer? Can we expect any urgency? Does that report include concrete actions, such as opening up the market in Europe or opening up the protected professions? We welcome a response to this point. In the Netherlands, too, the cabinet can do more to create new growth. The problem is clearly on the table: 600,000 people are still unemployed. Employers pay twice as much as what employees get in their bank accounts. Labour is far too expensive and people do not have enough left. Companies with a lot of staff are moving away. Last week, we saw an example of this in Drenthe: Philips in Emmen closes because of too high wage costs, which cost 240 people their jobs, while the work in Drenthe really is not going to be picked up. New growth is urgently needed. That is why the cabinet must continue to reform. I would like to highlight three issues today: pensions, the labour market and the tax system. Our pension system needs to be brought up to date quickly, otherwise there is a risk that we will be left with a hollowed-out collective system, or will be forced to save against the cliffs. We need to move towards a pension system with more room for individual choices, which fits in with a labour market where people switch jobs more often. The government must also look closely at the labour market. The labour market is now an uneven playing field forzzp'ers and employees. For employees, the employer pays not only salary, but also contributions for unemployment, pension and incapacity for work. Zzp'ers will take care of this themselves. Ifzzp'ers have less extensive insurance or less savings, they are indeed cheaper. In sectors with a high level of competition, there is a risk of a downward spiral. D66 wants to prevent people who do want to insure themselves from being able to do so. In order to prepare for the labour market of the future, we must adapt our system. The third reform to be put high on the agenda concerns the tax system. If it's D66, the tax on labour is going down fast. Work has to pay so people have more to spend. For companies, it has to be attractive to hire people again. At the VVD Congress a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister announced another tax cut. He said that proposals would be put forward in the coalition to eventually reduce taxes. I thought that was ironic. I looked back at that speech on YouTube. You hear the congress applaud very enthusiastically, but then you wonder if all those VVDs know that the VVD in the Lower House is always voting against proposals to bring the tax reduction closer. The Minister of Finance is now looking up; I will give him my text later, so that he can read what I said. I'm not giving up hope. The Prime Minister's statements have made me curious. When is this tax cut going to happen? Can the Minister give us a hint of the veil? The cabinet is working on all these future files. The pension dialogue is under way, policy research intozzp'ers, ibo, is ongoing and tax reform is being prepared. There's talk and there's thought, but that's not a delay tactic, is it? VVD and PvdA disagree on these issues. I would be so sorry if the reforms of this cabinet were smothered in the inability to overcome those contradictions. Time is running out on these issues; I see Mr Groot nodding. I have a number of specific questions about the Navy's note, first of all about the investments made by the Defence Department. The Ministry of Defence has not used a quarter of its investment budget. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has already referred to this. An amount of 200 million has not been spent. The reason given is "complaints in the acquisition chain'. In other words, the Defense Department doesn't have enough people to spend the money properly. Many parties in this Chamber indeed have the desire to spend more money on Defence, but should the Minister of Defence not first put her own organisation in order so that she can also spend that money meaningfully? I also have a question about the revenue from fines and settlements in the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. This year we saw a couple of big hitters. The Rabobank paid up to 70 million for the affair with Libor and SBM Offshore paid 192 million to settle a corruption case. In any case, my group has doubts about settling this kind of big deal, but I also wonder whether it is not strange that this money can be used to close gaps in the budget of Security and Justice. After all, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also paid out of that budget. I want to avoid even the appearance that it would be appropriate to cover a setback at the DA's office. Can the revenue from fines and transactions, if they exceed a certain level, for example if they exceed 5 million, as well as the revenue from these large settlements not flow better to the general funds rather than directly to the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice? My final question concerns the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There, subsidies from the Energy Agreement for Energy Innovation will only be paid in 2015. There is also a delay in the Rotterdam Storage and Capture Demonstration Project (ROAD). My question is whether this budget, as agreed, will be extended to 2015. Or should the current expenditure come from the 2015 budget itself? That's it, Mr. Chairman. I've stayed well within the time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-19.u44	I am very grateful for that. Thank you for your contribution. This brings to an end the first term of office. Members may have been informed that an additional arrangement of work has been requested. I've granted this application. Following on from this arrangement of work, I would like to suspend an hour before dinner break. Then we resume the debate on the Navy's note.
