ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	I understand that Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst wishes to speak and give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. The PVV insists on its request for an interplay, because the PVV will use every democratic means to prevent the transfer of 1.1 billion to Brussels. We also believe that the Minister should be accountable to this Chamber. In addition, the Chamber has not been fully informed. The underlying documents, such as the letter from the Permanent Representation in Brussels on 17 October and the account which exploded unexpectedly on 21 October at the door of the Minister of Finance, have not been made public. These are not made public even after frequent pressure from the House of Representatives. We believe that for the proper functioning of the Chamber, these documents should be released. It must not be the case that the citizen is good enough to pay, but not good enough to be informed. We are therefore pressing for this interplay to be maintained. We would like a clarification on this matter. It must not be the case that we are simply transferring 1.1 billion to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	The President shall adopt the agenda. That is what she does, as far as we are concerned, in wisdom. Nevertheless, I would like to make a comment. On the occasion of the interview request, the Ministry of Finance sent us today an official memo contesting the urgency of the interplay. The argument is also raised that the budgetary law of the First Chamber is not infringed. Nevertheless, the SP Group supports this interplay request because this issue concerns the budgetary law of the First Chamber. We therefore believe that the potential interpreter should have the opportunity to put forward its arguments on budgetary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	Of course, my group supports any request made by a group here to obtain information from the government. That is also possible in this form. We are unable to see what the urgency is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	The previous interplay took place in 2012. It was requested by Mr Nagel and was about pensions. We have no argument to say that the PVV's request for interpretation could not be met. The PVV talks about a payment before the end of the year. That's a certain urgency. The cabinet says that this is not the case, but I think it is for the assessment of all parties themselves. The rest of the evening I am totally available for the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	I didn't quite hear that last one. You said you were available?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	I'll be available for the rest of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	My group supports the request for a discussion of the PVV. Today we have taken note of the memo from the Minister of Finance. He argues that the case would not be urgent. It seems to me that this Chamber itself decides what is urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	The D66 Group will naturally support or accept a request for an interplay from a colleague of another group. However, we do not see the urgency. The issue has been raised in the General Financial Reviews. Mr Van Strien has asked questions about this. They've been answered. It was known that there would be paid. There was only a discussion about net or gross. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no new fact. I don't see any urgency either. If the interplay is held at the beginning of next year, I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	It is a democratic right of every Member of Parliament to request an interpretation. We will not dispute that either, but the urgency is one thing that escapes us. Maybe it's just an obligation that needs to be fulfilled. All the information on this was discussed on the other side of the debate on the autumn note. Then there was another discussion here. In our opinion, there are no new facts. If there is an interplay request, I would like to agree. Let's not keep the interplay today, but start next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	We, too, would normally like to support any request from a group for an interplay, because the Chamber has the right to do so. But we, too, are not convinced of the urgency. It's exactly what Mr. Backer just said. The subject has been discussed extensively in the General Financial Reviews. I understand that the amount itself is included in the second supplementary budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We haven't dealt with it here yet. We are going to discuss the budget of Security and Justice even after Christmas. As far as we are concerned, with the second supplementary budget, we could do that just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Backer. I mean Mrs. Barth. Excuse me. Anyone else want to speak? I note that this is not the case. Having heard the Chamber, I propose to grant the requested leave, but to keep the interplay on a date to be determined in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	If we keep the interview in January, it'll be mustard after dinner. Then the payment has already been made. Action shall be taken without the Chamber being fully informed. Surely this Chamber cannot function properly if it is not properly informed? If members accept it, it seems that they are going to do so, then they probably do not care. How can this Chamber ever be taken seriously again? They want to be informed so that they can do their job properly. In fact, I have only one conclusion: Brussels decides and the Minister pays. I have no choice but to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	Is there still a need for a response from the Chamber? That is not the case. Then I propose once again to grant the requested leave and to keep the interview on a meeting day to be determined in January. I also propose that speaking time be set at a maximum of ten minutes for the first-term interpreter and at a maximum of five minutes in second-term for the interpreter and any intermediary speakers.
