ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The debate on whether the government is doing enough to protect citizens from air pollution runs in the Chamber. It has long been thought that air traffic did not make such a big contribution. A plane like that is only 20 seconds on the runway and then another ten seconds in the air. Their emissions would not have so much impact on the health of people living nearby. In Los Angeles and Copenhagen, research has already been carried out that has caused us concern. On this basis, TNO and IRAS in the Netherlands have looked at the issue of emissions from Schiphol. That is a matter of great concern. More than 550,000 addresses in Amsterdam and Amstelveen seem to be affected by this. The emission of the ultra-fine dust is much more harmful than thought. Environmental defense has calculated that one take-off airplane per second emits as much as one million trucks. Can the Secretary of State confirm that calculation, or does it have figures that it would be otherwise? Can she indicate how many people we are talking about right now? It concerns 550,000 addresses, but we do not yet know how many people that is. How many kids is that? Children are much more sensitive to these effects. I ask the Secretary of State if she will follow the recommendations of the researchers to investigate further the exact health effects and whether she is prepared to take precautions during that investigation, so that we do not take irresponsible risks with the people affected by air traffic emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. As we know, I take the balance between health and economic interests very seriously. People also know that I like to base myself on facts. I, too, am curious about what the facts are in the end. It has been said that a follow-up study should clarify the actual health risks. I will study TNO's research. I will tell you how I look at TNO's research and how I intend to conduct this follow-up study. I will also look at what is happening at European level; some European studies are currently under way. So I will follow that recommendation. Right now, I can't confirm any calculations. I think it is important to know which facts emerge in follow-up investigations. I think it's good that this is being spotted. We already have the PM standard for the larger particulate matter. The PM standard for the smaller particulate matter goes in. Now we are taking the step towards soot and ultra-fine dust. As far as public health is concerned, I think it is important that we do the research in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Secretary of State is answering my one question. It adopts the recommendation to carry out follow-up studies. That's nice. Thank you for that. We would like to be kept informed of the design of this investigation. I also asked the Secretary of State to take precautions during that investigation, so that the investigation does not become "remove." People always get upset when they hear politicians say "we'll figure it out" while nothing changes in the meantime. We could agree to freeze the growth to 510,000 flight movements per year, which we would like to allow Schiphol. We could also agree that we are working on reducing unnecessary flights, for example within Europe. I was hoping that the Secretary of State would say that she knows that children's health could be harmed, that the Netherlands would not even meet the air quality standards recommended by the World Health Organisation and that it would not take any additional risks, given what we now know about air traffic emissions. I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to say that as long as we cannot rule out the effects on public health, Schiphol will not in any case continue to grow, that it will encourage more transport by land, by rail, and that it will be working to tackle all these short European flights. This would also bring the climate targets to be pursued closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	I do not think it is right for us to take measures when we do not yet know what the effects are and therefore we do not know whether we should take measures and, if so, to what extent. Mrs Ouwehand gives a number of examples. One of them, on short and perhaps unnecessary flights, is interesting. That is exactly what we are trying to achieve with the Single European Sky programme, which I am very much in favour of. In this sense, for a very different reason, effective action is already being taken on this point. I think it is important that we know what the effects are, that we investigate them, and that we then consider whether measures are needed. I don't want to take measures in advance without knowing the effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Then I'm afraid the Secretary of State has a misconception about her job description. The government is committed to Article 21 of the Constitution, which states that policies should be aimed at protecting the environment and human health. Of course it can be said that we cannot yet make a policy if we do not know the effects. However, we can say from the precautionary principle that if this will have an effect on public health, we would prefer to avoid it and therefore freeze the agreement that Schiphol should continue to grow. The results of working at European level to reduce unnecessary flights are still far from being known. I can imagine that the Secretary of State will also do what is necessary in his own country and set out an objective to reduce the number of European journeys from Schiphol, which can also be easily made by train, by train to London, Berlin and other cities. Citizens are now being chased into the plane under pressure of the prize fighters for a few tens, while they could travel in a different way, so the Secretary of State can work with that. I would like her to give a commitment that she will take measures under the precautionary principle so that we do not regret the health damage that has actually occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	The researchers say that long-term exposure to ultraphine dust has "probably" adverse effects on health, but they cannot say that with certainty. I said that I think I should study the report and I should look into how you weigh into the interests of what are follow-up studies and what are effects, and that I should take precautions with the outcome of this investigation. I really don't think it's serious to relate to any effects. So I think that's unwise. The question of whether it will take place in the long term, after further research, after looking at other places in Europe, also in comparison with road traffic, because there too ultra-fine dust is being looked at, or at that time, if necessary, steps are being taken, is about as-dan-claims. I'll assess that at the time. Let me start by asking what the facts are and what the effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Around Schiphol we handle a maximum amount of sound. We did that because we realize that sound has an effect on health. We have also known for a long time that fine dust has an effect on health. That is why we in the Netherlands pay so much attention to this. Can the Secretary of State promise that in her further investigation she will not only address the question of whether measures should be taken, if she finds that this has an effect, but also the question of what measures? Is she also willing to look at, by analogy with the maximum amount of noise, whether you might also have to work with a maximum amount of emissions? That maximum amount of noise had the positive, stimulating and innovative effect that it made the aircraft cleaner and quieter. That's exactly what you want: not necessarily fewer flights, but less effect of the flights. Is the Secretary of State gonna take this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	There's a standard for particulate matter, PM. As of 1 January, the standards PM will be issued. It has been decided to measure this, because the effects on health have been looked at and there is a standard that looks at when it has a harmful effect. In the case of soot, we now say we want a soot measurement net. That is where we are at the forefront of Europe. Now we have arrived at the topic of ultra-fine dust. I think it is good that this way we continue to look at the effects on health. I have just indicated that the effects on health and economic interests need to be taken into account. I think you should consider that carefully. To say in advance that I am going to do it by analogy of sound I find complicated. I would rather look at how the steps have been taken in the case of PM and PM and how we have taken those roads. This concerns the same material; it is all about particulate matter. I do think it is important that we look at how we have done it in other ways and whether, if there are any effects, this will allow us to speed up effective action. But first, I want to follow up on the question of what the effects are and when they are harmful. When are we gonna talk about a concentration that's harmful? This is, of course, important for the final standards. As far as I am concerned, this has to take place at European level, because it is still a bit difficult to breathe air across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	We talk very often in this Chamber about calculation models about air quality versus real measurement. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether this does not give us any reason to think carefully about whether, in addition to calculating how clean the air is, we really need measurement points, especially under the smoke of Schiphol, because if the fine dust is not harmful, it is nowhere in the world, given the maximum of 510,000 flights per year. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	Indeed, GroenLinks and I have had many discussions about calculation and measurement. I think it is important that we have very good calculation models to see how we get there. Of course, eventually there will also be measurements, to validate. At the moment, I have no reason to change the existing ways and ways in which we do things. I just need to say something about measuring and knowing. Ultra-fine dust is also considered in the case of road traffic. It is important to learn from each other in different sectors, but also to see whether the particulate matter of aircraft has exactly the same effects and is the same particulate matter as the particulate matter of transport by road. I think it's important that we act fact-based.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Second question from your group, Mrs Van Tongeren. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm very much in favour of fact-based trading. That's why it's important to measure. I am sure the Secretary of State is also aware of all kinds of foreign research in which it has been made absolutely clear that there is a relationship between fine dust and health and that it does not matter whether that fine dust comes from an agricultural source, from a traffic source or from a source in the air. Does the state sectary agree with me or do we in the Netherlands have fact-based other information showing that it would have different health effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's exactly what I'm trying to tell you. So we have PM, PM and such. It has always been considered when these effects are harmful and harmful and what standard we should set for them. I think we should go that way with ultra-fine dust, so that it happens carefully. If we have a standard for harmfulness and negative effects, we must also be able to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	There's another way to reduce vulnerability. If people do indeed turn out to live under an ultra-fine dust blanket, you can reduce the vulnerability by, for example, not building under flight routes anymore. I know a lot of areas, for example the Buitenveldertbaan, with a lot of construction plans. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to intervene in building plans, should there indeed be harmfulness?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	Then we'll find ourselves in another as-then reasoning. We are now at the stage where research has been carried out and there is a suspicion that further research is needed. That's what the research institutions are telling us. It is important that we first know what the effects are before we look at measures at all. If measures are needed, I also want them to be as effective as possible. So I'm still guilty of the answer to the question. I know that if-then claims are tempting, but right now it's too premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	I would like to receive a further explanation from the Secretary of State. She doesn't want to change anything in policy as long as we don't have proof, but we can't rule out people getting sick of this either. Again, we are talking about 550,000 addresses in Amsterdam and Amstelveen alone. There is a suspicion that there are risks. Does the Secretary of State consider it justified that we run health risks with our citizens and children? If it answers this question with a yes, then what is the basis for that, given its role and in the light of Article 21 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	I'm gonna repeat myself. TNO, GGD Amsterdam and Iras stress that follow-up research can clarify the real health risks. The main questions are of course raised: what are the health risks, when do they occur and what are the effects? That's what we're looking for. I just promised the Chamber the follow-up. I will also look at what is known and how it is handled in Europe at European level. Fine dust also blows across the border, because it's in the air. I think it's important to know. I do not want to anticipate measures, damages, etc. that are not yet known. In my opinion, the chain should not start with the measures, but with the facts and therefore with the effects: when are the effects harmful and what measures could be effective to eliminate any harmful effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	The second question from your group, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	That was not an answer to my question. Fine dust blows away and yes, it blows to Amsterdam and makes people sick. It's a reasonable assumption that we can have here. My question was whether the Secretary of State considered it justified to allow Schiphol to grow further in anticipation of the results of the investigation. I'm glad the investigation is coming up. I'm happy to hear from the Secretary of State when she sends the scheme to the Chamber. But in the meantime, does she think it's justified to leave the traffic that is likely to cause health damage to people in Amsterdam and Amstelveen untouched? We could also opt for freezing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	I'll get back to you. Mrs Ouwehand uses the same word, namely "probably." She is not sure either, and I think it is important to know what the facts are before we set all our interests against each other. These interests are also weighed in standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	The Secretary of State points out that additional research is necessary. A number of municipalities and citizens in the area of Schiphol are waiting for a decision on whether to build and whether to re-destine or renovate at all. To what extent does the additional research have an impact on the speed with which municipalities and citizens receive an answer? In general consultation, the Secretary of State indicated that it would come forward with a reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	That commitment still stands. I will come as soon as possible with an answer to this. This is without prejudice to the fact that this route is also going to run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	I am listening to a number of colleagues with increasing amazement. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the fact that she continues to reply so calmly. Research has been done by TNO. On this subject, Milieudefensie distributed some panicky press release and then half the Chamber turned upside down, while TNO's researcher said: "The conclusions of Milieudefensie are far too short." That's what he said on the radio the same day. Shouldn't we just sit back and see what comes out of the investigation and start taking radical measures at all when there's no reason to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u24	I would like to repeat my speech with pleasure. Whether it is short or not, I leave it to the people of Milieudefensie. I think it's important that we act fact-based. I'll take steps to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. This brings to an end oral Question Time.
