ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mrs Arib would have preferred to ask these questions to the Secretary of State, but she is absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Commercial surrogacy has been on the news regularly in recent years and it is increasing. Several media have paid attention to this. The program This is the day of the EO showed how easy it is to place an ad on the internet, which openly circumvents all the rules for coming to a child. Last Sunday we saw a shocking reportage on the Brand Point TV programme showing how women in poor countries have been reduced to breeding machines. The PvdA believes that the purpose does not justify all means for fulfilling a child's wish. A child is not a product that can be bought. The trafficking of children ignores the suffering that children can suffer: uncertainty about their origin and being sold as babies. Several times I have asked written questions about this in recent years, and several times I received the answer that there is a state committee that will issue an opinion somewhere in mid-2016. That can never be the intention. Commercial surrogacy brings with it many legal, ethical and emotional problems to which the government, especially this cabinet, must have an answer. It should not wait for a state committee to deliver an opinion, but to tackle the current practices and abuses equally. After all, commercial surrogacy is simply criminal and the current situation is that the law is being violated. Can the Minister explain why the Public Prosecutor's Office is not actively acting against these practices of making large sums of money over women's backs in poor countries and selling babies as products? Why can the current enforcement policy on commercial surrogacy not be strengthened? The Children's Protection Council is also calling for an understanding of the scale. Is the Minister prepared to have an investigation into this? How do we find out when wishing parents from abroad take a child from a surrogate mother to the Netherlands and have her registered here? How do we know that? Does the Minister have any indication of the number of children coming to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Arib for her question. We fully agree that surrogacy is a complex subject with many facets: practical, legal, but above all ethical. That is why it is also wise for the cabinet to have set up a State Committee on Parenthood to look at surrogacy in full width. The Secretary of State has sent this to the Chamber. This is sensitive matter that needs to be recalibrated. The Public Prosecutor's Office looks at illegal surrogacy as to whether there may be trafficking in human beings, even if it is international. Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law is important here. These include requests for legal aid, parallel investigations and joint international investigation teams, such as joint investigation teams. That could be the case. Mrs Arib also asked about the numbers. That's what I've been asking about. As far as I know, there have been six cases in the last five years in which a child from a foreign surrogacy structure has been tried through the court to move into the Netherlands. In 2013, the Children's Protection Board conducted nineteen studies on surrogacy and twelve in 2012. This involved both surrogacy in the Netherlands and abroad. This gives some indication of the size, but not enough yet. My final point is that a civil servant may ask himself: is this true? He can then report it, but in these situations the Council's consideration for the protection of children always remains that the importance of the child in relation to the parents and his development are paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	The Minister gives an answer, but I cannot do that very much because it is not a concrete answer to my questions. He refers to an article that serves as a basis for the public prosecutor's action. This article is part of the approach to trafficking in human beings, but it concerns commercial surrogacy and therefore criminal law. I thought Article 151b of the Code of Criminal Law states that this is prohibited in the Netherlands. So that needs to be addressed. In response to my written questions, the Secretary of State said that this is not a priority and that the police are not going to do so. I would like a concrete answer to that. When the Minister says that it is also about the rights of the child, he also knows the problems that arise for children as a result. That way they don't know who they're from. That right is enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which the Netherlands has committed itself. I would like a specific answer to the question of how the Minister guarantees this right of children here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's two questions. The D.A.'s gonna keep it. This has also been demonstrated by previous investigations. That is also appropriate. There could be more than one case to be dealt with. Not only human trafficking, but embezzlement, for example, can be the issue. Then there are other articles of the Code of Criminal Law. That is what is happening, but I would like to touch on the second point, finally, the Council for Child Protection always looks at the importance of the child when situations are recognised that are not in line with current legislation and the current practice of surrogacy according to the Dutch criteria, which are extremely sensitive but very important and are in the process of development. Then there must be a balance between the importance of the child, the Code of Criminal Law and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Fortunately, there is an opportunity principle in which these considerations take place. That is why I refer Mrs Arib once again to the wisdom of the Secretary of State to come up with a state committee looking at these incredibly sensitive, ethical issues, which we in the Netherlands consider extremely important. In order not to go to one side or the other side, but to listen to each other and to go through a development, you have to look at that committee before you go to any legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	We have asked for such a state committee. There should be, but the state committee is mentioned as a reason not to do anything at the moment. That's not the point. A state committee should consider that ethical aspect. However, there are also wishing parents who do it in a legal way and you should not drag them into this. It was never intended that this state committee should be used every time as an argument not to intervene. One question has not yet been answered. The minister says the D.A. is doing the right thing. In how many cases has the D.A. dealt with commercial surrogacy? Can the Minister give us a specific figure?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	I have said that, as far as I know, there have been six cases in the last five years, in which a child from a foreign surrogate's construction has been tried through the court to move into the Netherlands. I'm quoting myself. That's it in the core. How many times has the State's Attorney's Office acted? That has been the case twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	We are now discussing this question in writing and in writing during oral Question Time, while it is a very sensitive matter. It is possible to trade with children. The last writing of the cabinet is from some time ago. Now it's waiting again for a state commission. This is a very important issue. When can we expect a vision or a letter from the cabinet, in which an overview is given, describing the dilemmas and the approach that is already possible, and describing what approach the cabinet advocates? When is the state committee due and when can we discuss this? It takes a very long time. To discuss this only occasionally during Question Time and by means of written questions is really too lean.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you to Mr Segers for the question. We have agreed that if there is legislation, we will first wait for the State Commission. The vision was given by the Secretary of State in December 2011, I thought. Now it's waiting for the committee. That's wisdom and intelligence. We are, of course, in concrete situations and we know how sensitive it is. The Secretary of State stands for this and so does the Council for the Protection of Children. Dilemmas as in the broadcast we recognize, but they should lead to a legislative change. The screening operation will take place at the VU, but we think we should wait for the State Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Previous answers to parliamentary questions from Mrs Arib and myself showed that the Children's Protection Council is only aware of some of the issues, because this is largely absent from the Council's observation. Does the Minister see any possibility of increasing the understanding of the situations that arise from the Council for the Protection of Children?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's hard. Let us be clear: they are, of course, illegal situations. You won't find out until you find out, for example, because a civil servant reports it. And then something is done with it, right away. We're not sitting still. The state's attorney's office isn't sitting still. The congregations don't sit still. The Children's Protection Board is not sitting still. With each other we come to the conclusion that a review should be considered. That's why you need a state commission. That is wisdom and understanding in this extremely sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
