ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Seven spokesmen have already spoken, including Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. It has had to opt out of the debate today because of commitments elsewhere. It was actually Mrs Ouwehand, but she traded with Mrs Jacobi, so I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Jacobi today. As she walks into the chair, I would like to agree with the participants in the debate that they are trying to do the interruptions in two, that is to say a question and possibly a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good morning. It's a special day, because it's the Secretary of State's birthday today. How young is she? I hope that today we will be able to make a nice extra decoration of it, helping both the Programmed Approach Nitrogen (PAS) and the Secretary of State. In November, perhaps even October, we talked about the PAS. I had to rewrite almost all of my input for today because so much has happened in the meantime, including through the lawyer-general's ruling and by AERIUS, the calculation system that has now incorporated more than a million nitrogen sources. This has led to new data in a number of areas, which has made it clearer. As a result, I was able to remove a number of concerns from my input; that saves me. The PAS stems from a fruitful cooperation between the PvdA and the CDA, with one common objective: to reduce nitrogen emissions in the Natura 2000 sites. On the one hand, nature must benefit from it, and on the other hand, we want to develop a space for economic and cultural activities. The PvdA believes that nature and good biodiversity are important. For this, it is necessary to reduce the nitrogen deposition. However, we are also in favour of creating opportunities for innovation, especially in the agricultural sector. Only then will farmers have the opportunity to invest in modernisations that benefit both nature and animal welfare and working conditions. In the meantime, we are doing about six years with the PAS. It began very practically with the agreement on broad lines between the Interprovincial Consultation, the green organisations and the agricultural and horticultural organisations. The proposal was to reduce nitrogen deposition per area, to establish critical deposition values and to re-examine how much more should be removed every six years. Just getting started was the practical approach. However, there was a lot of discussion about legal sustainability. We must, of course, help each other in this: it must be legally sustainable, otherwise there will be a great deal of uncertainty as permits are being delayed, as is the case today. So the PAS has to go to work. I think it's a good thing that the Secretary of State will have the same legal sustainability in her first term. How do you say? Puts... in the foundation. It's already in there, but I think it's good that the Secretary of State should discuss this with us. We have been positive, especially since the cabinet started working with this Secretary of State and all the people involved; we should not forget all those officials. They've brought the PAS as far as today. However, we have a number of concerns. The first concern is the allocation of the development space. We are afraid that if you take a 90%-10% distribution, a rush will arise on that new development space. There's a lot of permits waiting. We would rather see that we spend a tranche each year or perhaps every three years. I saw that D66 just distributed an amendment with a tile construction. That's a little more gradual. This will also prevent us from saying in a year's time that the development area is full in certain areas and that it is no longer possible. I think we might have to keep that peace of mind a little bit after all. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Shouldn't we be aiming for a percentage of 50/50 or 60/40? The second concern concerns licensing-free activities. The legislative proposal declares certain activities and extensions free of authorisation, but there is a notification requirement. That is the minimum. The Secretary of State has proposed that a deposition should not be less than 0.05 moles per hectare per year. The limit value is set at 1 mole per hectare per year. That notification requirement is the minimum, but I would like to know how the Secretary of State will monitor any cumulation that may be involved. Is it perhaps wiser to make a prediction of that licence-free part and reserve development space for it? The third point concerns investment in the reduction of deposition. That's what we want. It is important that we work well with source policy. We have heard during the technical briefing of officials that the Ministries of Infrastructure and the Environment and Economic Affairs are working well together, but I think that some sort of direction is needed. There are three points on the agenda. Rotterdam plays a role in this. The same applies to Zeeland. The province of Zeeland has indicated that it also suffers mainly from the nitrogen deposition from Flanders. I have seen the Secretary of State working to reduce the nitrogen deposition from abroad, but Zeeland would like to see a solution found in the legislation itself. Can the Secretary of State indicate how she's going to handle this? Of course, as a northerner, I always have a little northern problem. I dropped my choice on Schiermonnikoog, where part of the nitrogen deposition comes from the German part of the Wadden region. At Schiermonnikoog there is not much room for those who engage in economic activities there. That certainly applies to the farmers. They are trying to be very green and also to change part of their sources, on top of what is already required by generic measures. How can we improve that resource policy? What are the ministries of EZ and I and M doing about this? Which control tools are we going to develop for this? How can we meet these specific areas a little? I think they are getting in a lot of trouble, despite the good developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Nature Protection Act, what a tricky thing! And what a bureaucracy has been riding in it over the past few years! Why would you be easy when it's hard? I have a hunch. Simply obeying the law is difficult for politicians when the law says that the fragile nature in the Netherlands should not be further backward but should be restored. After all, it's just nature. Nature doesn't scream that it's locked. Nature has no vote and no vote. It's what you call a vulnerable value. There can always be a bite out of it, there can always be more pollution, because hey: there is someone who makes money from it. And that's what matters. Of course, we do know that nature is indispensable to life on Earth. Even with the VVD, there are people who realize that without biodiversity, we are lost without salvation. You can't eat Asphalt. We do know it, and we do say it: nature is vital. We have to protect nature. We must try to restore what we have destroyed, because we have only 15% of our original biodiversity left. That's not good. We have to do something about that. Those are wonderful words, but when it comes to running into the border of what we can do to nature, we are not prepared to respect it. We are not prepared to choose another course, a course that will spare nature. We are not prepared to curb the polluting economy of short-term profits. We are not prepared to use agricultural reforms that serve the transcendent interests of long-term prosperity and well-being rather than the short-term gain of export interests. It's business as usual, at all costs. That is the essence of the problem. The Nature Protection Act is called "Nature Protection Act" because it has been established to protect nature from excessive degradation. That is what we thought was necessary, and that is what we have promised internationally. We have properly made a law in which we have made that promise. So far, so good. But when it became clear that our intensive livestock farming is doing exactly what the Nature Protection Act does not allow: so many pigs, chickens, cows and minks are stuffing on a platter that the ammonia produced by all these animals brings our natural areas to the edge of the abyss. This means that our promise that we would protect nature and the laws in which we laid down it force us to tackle intensive livestock farming. You already guessed: politicians don't want to do that, at least not when the CDA or the VVD rules. But honesty dictates that it doesn't really matter. The intensive livestock farming also finds loyal supporters in the PVV field and in the SGP, as well as in the Christian Union and the Labour Party. Those last two parties may sound a bit less harsh, but when it comes to it, they are always in the field of livestock factories, in the unequal competition that is played against nature here. The sad result of this flat agricultural policy is that the Nature Protection Act has been violated for a long time. That was initially the easiest strategy: simply not maintaining it, not maintaining it for years. To the great frustration of conservationists and citizens in the outskirts, the law appeared to apply to all but apparently not to chicken farmers, pig farmers, mink breeders and dairy farmers. To this day, the Nature Protection Act is not enforced. As a result, our country is full of illegal livestock factories. Fortunately, such a strategy also has disadvantages. Sometimes someone went to the government with a request for enforcement or plans for the expansion of a stable due to a procedure by small, brave nature conservation organizations were presented to the judge. And then there was shit on the marble, because then it turned out that the load of the barn in question on the nature reserve in the neighborhood was unacceptable. Then there was no permit. "The sector is locked," shouted the agricultural block here indignantly. No, the sector is illegal and is not authorised for any more pollution. That's not exactly the same thing. Anyway, the strategy of allowing an impossible situation had its limitations. When the agricultural block got through it, more heavy guns were used. Under the leadership of the CDA, the Nature Protection Act has been stretched and hollowed out in a number of rounds to give as much space as possible to intensive livestock farming. This applies not only to the Nature Protection Act. Other laws designed to protect nature, environment and neighborhoods against pollution and the nuisance from the stables have also been greatly relaxed as they were in the way of the factory farmer's expansion plans. Let me give you a few examples. The anti-smelling policy implemented in the 1970s and 1980s should lead to the removal of serious odour nuisances by 2010. Now you have to stick your nose out of the train at Deurne or live there and want to sit in your garden in good weather; it's impossible to do. The inhabitants of the outside area owe it to the CDA, the VVD and the SGP that legal protection against accumulation of stench has been abolished for the whole country. Thanks, we say! From the same sheet a suit in ammonia policy. At the end of the 1980s, this policy was developed to regulate ammonia emissions caused by livestock farming. Since then, however, it has only been attacked by the advocates of factory agriculture. Directives, interim laws, new laws; all hollowing out the protection of nature from livestock factories. I have mentioned the destruction of the protection of human beings, nature and the environment against unbridled intensive livestock farming when we discussed in this Chamber the umpteenth line that went through the heavily fought environmental policy. That was in the treatment of the Crisis and Recovery Act. No less than 27 environmental and natural laws went aside to push through controversial projects such as roads and manure digesters. Hey, called Mr Koopmans, then agricultural spokesman of the CDA: this is a lecture from the collected works of Ger Koopmans. He was pretty proud of it. You can say a lot about that famous agricultural spokesperson, but not that he contributed to a clear nature policy, where the law was clear, nature was protected, as was agreed internationally, bureaucracy and administrative taxation were kept to a minimum and the farmers knew where they were going. For it was Ger Koopmans who took the lead in the erosion of the stench laws, the ammonia rules and the Nature Protection Act. Although this was on the mill of industrial agriculture and the lobby of LTO, that is the lowest area farmers have ever been delivered to this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Ouwehand, I find it difficult for you to address someone who has been a Member of Parliament, but who is no longer a Member of Parliament, as he is unable to refute this. This is something that is not customary in this Parliament. I'll take a look at Mr. Geurts. Mr Geurts, this is someone who did this on behalf of your party. Do you need to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	I was thinking if I would say what you have said now, Mr President. I find it a bit low on the ground of the PvdD, but at this point I am used to that party. So I don't want to give them extra time. I welcome your comment, Mr President. I hope that the spokesperson of the PvdD will take it to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'd like to respond to that. You're right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Koopmans is not present in this Chamber. We had debates at the sharpest of the cuts. If he had been here, I'm sure he could have responded to it, but he's not here, so I'll bend my input to the CDA. Then Mr Geurts may or may not respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Koopmans had been his man in this respect, but you are right, Mr President. Mr Koopmans is not here, so it is not possible. The CDA, from whose case this proposal also came, has shamelessly deceived farmers and lied about their possibilities for expansion and their legal status, with catchy rhetoric against nature rules, nature conservationists and people who managed to get permits issued in their minds checked by the judge. All legal warnings have been ignored. Over and over again, laws have been amended and policy frameworks introduced that sounded very good in the farmer's ear, but which we knew would be killed by the judge. As much as I want to give the CDA the credits for drowning farmers and nature in a legal swamp, it must be said that the CDA proposals were very enthusiastic about the whole right side of the Chamber and, somewhat less enthusiastic, yet, at Christian Union and PvdA. I mean, most of us were actually in on it. It was like a popularity contest. Who is the best supporter of the farmers? Who attacks the other side, nature, nature organisations, the hardest? Those parties have presented themselves as the farmer's greatest friends, while they have helped that farmer out of the rain in the drip. Then you're no longer a supporter, then you're a political hooligan. The PvdD thinks that's nauseous behavior. I confess: that is one of the reasons why I have requested so much speaking time for this debate. But it is much more important to discuss the history of the new amendment to the Nature Protection Act which the Secretary of State has now submitted to the Chamber. It is important that we know what we are doing, what tradition we are in, what efforts have been made to adapt the Nature Protection Act so that the livestock industry can continue to grow and expand. All these plans, all these constructions, all these attempts, they didn't make it. It is relevant to discuss history, because this Secretary of State, based on that previous history, is making another attempt that the PvdD has serious doubts about, in light of the feasibility. And I would like to remind you here that the Secretary of State has been declared by Trouw to be one of the most powerful State Secretarys in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	We are now listening to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals for about 15 minutes. It is mainly about livestock farming in relation to the Nature Protection Act. Now it may be that Mrs Ouwehand will speak about other sectors in her speech. If that's the case, I'm gonna wait for that. If not, I wonder why the focus is only on livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would like to focus on this, because it has come from the livestock lobby that all the laws of nature and the environment have been constantly adapted. In this respect, we have the most intense history of legislative changes and changes to policy frameworks, which were adopted here in this house, when we knew they would not make it to the courts. I'd like to discuss that part in particular. This is more important in intensive livestock farming than in asphalt, but if Mrs Lodder wants to hear it: the Animal Party wants to say at the moment that new roads cannot either, given the commitments we have made in the context of nature conservation. So no asphalt, no 130 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I will, of course, continue to follow Mrs Ouwehand's speech, but I would like to point out that it is very important for the VVD that we discuss the programmed approach nitrogen together, precisely in order to create development space for the Netherlands for jobs and jobs, which is so important at this time. I hope that Mrs Ouwehand will indicate in her speech, when she does not see that growth, how she would like to further shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	We are very much in favour of jobs and jobs, but not for some kind of fairy tale or fairy tale jobs. That is exactly what the VVD is constantly doing: pretending that the Nature Protection Act does not exist and pretending that no international promises have been made by the Netherlands, creating theoretical, illusory space for the livestock industry, which I predict will fall to you at the Council of State. Then the VVD cries again that it is so annoying that it has become such a legal swamp. We have seen this in recent years. You are there yourself, so let us consider what we are doing here today, so that we do not create illusional employment. It seems to me that the VVD can't be for that. Be honest with me about that. This Secretary of State, I congratulate her on her birthday, I congratulate her once again on being, according to Trouw, the most powerful Secretary of State in this cabinet. Of course, that creates expectations and that is also annoying, if you get a title like that, because then everyone will say: well, let's see. That's what I'm doing today. I think the Secretary of State is smart and sensible. This law comes from the case of the CDA. We know what the background and motives have been, and we know the history of all those plans that did not reach the Council of State. I would therefore like to check with the Secretary of State what would be so different from the proposal she is putting forward here. Even the most talented, gifted and experienced driver can bite her teeth. Anyone who wants to make the impossible possible is stuck in acidified mud, no matter how skilled he or she is as a driver. What can't be, can't be. Anyone who wants to pretend that the impossible is possible is called a magician or an illusionist in ordinary people's language. You can get away with that for a long time, but the end of the song is that you're not a powerful driver, but a glorified magician at the expense of the taxpayer. So I wonder: is it now brave of the Secretary of State to make this attempt to pull the legal strings, or is it from the same sheet a suit, and therefore really reprehensible, because we can know that this construction is not going to make it? I have a number of questions on that point in my speech. I think that the Secretary of State has, to begin with, scratched behind her ears at hearing the input of the CDA and coalition partner VVD. First there had to and would be a Programmatic Approach Nitrogen and then it is there, and they don't really know if they like that approach. Nor can the involvement of the other parties have been very reassuring to the Secretary of State. In short, almost everyone says: boy, we do have a big problem and we don't really know how to solve it; we can only try the PAS, even though we see a lot of objections. That's not exactly a good start for a legislative change. Do you have to do it? Is it not time to break the illusional policy and work on the restoration of nature, reform of agriculture and clarity for farmers? As the proposal now stands, there are no hard safeguards for the restoration of nature. We fear that this will lead to further deterioration of nature and that it will continue to close down the licensing process. In fact, licences cannot be issued if nature conditions do not improve. We all know, I hope, the analysis of Professor of Natural Law Kees Bastmeijer. Those are intrusive warnings. It is not very complicated, but we have made it complicated because we have not wanted to respect the limits that our nature agreements impose on polluting activities in the outskirts. Space has been created for the bio-industry, space that was not there and we must also stress today that it will not be there, because nature has not improved and still has to deal with too much burden due to intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can give an insight into compliance with the Nature Protection Act so far, so that we can learn from the cases that have or have not been tested. The Council of State refers to this in the opinion we have received and in which previous legislative amendments have been discussed retroactively by the Council of State. Can the Secretary of State provide insight into compliance with Article 6, third paragraph, Birds and Habitats Directives? Before 1 October 2005, the Reich was the competent authority, then the provinces. The Party for Animals is very curious what that transfer looked like. What was maintained before that and how did it go after that? Can the Secretary of State provide insight into the enforcement that provinces have or have not shown?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	Does Mrs Ouwehand actually have a fundamental problem with the system of the PAS, or with the moment we start issuing space again? I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that more can be done if nature is strong and that investing in a strong nature creates more opportunities for entrepreneurs. Then you have to make sure that you achieve an improvement and you have to be careful when spending development space before you achieve that improvement. But it can then be a good tool to ensure that as much space is created as possible and win-win situations are achieved. Is Mrs Ouwehand's problem in the system of incentives to deal smartly with space, or in the moment when we are actually starting to spend space again?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	The most important thing is the moment, but in a broader context, the savings in nature policy are also the most important. Nature is in bad shape and only investing in nature restoration means expensive recovery measures, while we do not see enough real space being created, given and awarded to robust nature. Only then can you, the Party for Animals, put forward a proposal with good decency and think about how to shape activities, which may be a burden on nature, but which may still be possible, because nature can have a hit. We see that at present there is too little recognition of what nature needs, while a system is already being introduced whereby we are going to issue permits again for activities that will burden nature even more. The investment in nature, which is the opposite, is actually the cost of cleaning up the pollution that we are going to allow. That is where the fundamental problem lies for us. If nature were better off, if we had really invested and given priority to it, then you could introduce the PAS. We don't see enough of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Then I see that more as the moment of entry into force of the issue of space. Because I believe in the PAS-systematic that part of the space that we actually create through cleaning works is for the benefit of nature. It is a contribution to the step-by-step improvement of nature. We share the concern about the state of nature in the Netherlands. Where there is still a concern with my group, I have tabled an amendment on this, which is that we sell the bear's skin too much before we shoot the bear. Another point: how can we ensure that we spend the space we have efficiently, so that those parties get it that make the best use of it, rather than the parties that work according to the principle of first come, first served?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs van Veldhoven's amendments respond to our concerns. I have also tabled a number of amendments on this point. But basically it is that the burden on nature is so high, and that nature is in such a bad state, that we think it is necessary first to reform intensive livestock farming to ensure that this tax is actually reduced in a structural manner. We do not feel that we should constantly use taxpayers' money to remove the mess that goes into nature, so that we can call it natural recovery. We really need to reduce the burden on nature. You should start with that before you introduce the PAS-systematiek. We're missing that. I have a feeling that we think more fundamental than D66. The way in which we are now trying to achieve the natural goals and not tackle intensive livestock farming is to try to save coal and goats. We know that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	I believe that this is a state aid issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	I haven't fooled how many times I heard the Party for Animals talk about a worse nature. But let's get to the facts. The number of breeding birds in the Netherlands has increased over the past 25 years. The number of plant species has doubled. We see birds of prey, swamp birds and city birds coming back that we didn't know here in 1900. We see beavers and otters returning to the Netherlands. We barely knew them in 1900.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	They're turned off, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	We see the area of nature increase compared to 1900. And we see the quality of water and air greatly improved, compared to 1900. Will Mrs. Ouwehand stop telling the story from 1900, and go into contemporary times? The fact is that it has been much better with nature in the past 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	If I have to assess the state of nature in the Netherlands, I am more inclined to study reports from ecologists and advice from the Planning Bureau for the Environment than to raise the bright proposals of the CDA Group to the truth. Mr Geurts will understand that, and I'm sure he'll forgive me. Of course, steps have been taken, but the deterioration of nature is still continuing. As long as you allow more tax on a nature reserve than that area can have, the condition of that area deteriorates. We do not even achieve the standstill situation for an area such as De Peel, which is well-known, because most of the poultry and pig farms in the Netherlands are around it. We haven't even reached the state in which the basic conditions for nature are basically secured. It's still bad in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	I do not want to place many interruptions on this point. Just one, to make it clear that your story doesn't touch anything. I'm just quoting from a report from the Center for Environmental Sciences of the University of Leiden. You are selectively quoting from a number of reports which contain other issues. You just take the worst things out of there, put them together and bring them as facts. I would ask you to stop proclaiming the truth of 1900 and to descend in contemporary times. I have only mentioned one quote in which nature is far better than you suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	You can... well, why do I even bother? I'm gonna try to explain it to the CDA anyway. You can't say: a few species are coming back, so nature is doing better. That's selective shopping. We have agreed internationally that we would stop the decline in our biodiversity by 2010. It's not even about promoting biodiversity, it's about stopping the trend that we're losing more and more plant and animal species. So that's the total picture and not "it's going well with the otter and the beaver." No, it's about the overall picture of biodiversity. We didn't even achieve that goal. That's embarrassing! We agree with each other in the UN context because we cannot live, work and wear clothes without biodiversity. That's the point, Mr Geurts. Anyway, I have a hunch you know that. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed in the discussion by the Council of State of the history of this bill. It is actually a matter of discussing with retroactive effect the plans that have previously come through the Chamber. The Council of State also discusses the legalisation of illegal cattle factories, proposed by CDA, VVD and PVV, which has also been supported by ChristianUnion and PvdA. The Council is actually saying: existing use, pretending that the law does not have to apply to existing livestock farming, which was wrongly never subject to the law, was a fine trick, but should not. We could sense that on our peasant clogs, because the law applies to everyone. The Council of State, with retroactive effect, sets a line through these plans to evade the law. I would stress that the parties who supported this at the time could have known that in advance. Those who have preached to the farmers that the law should not apply to them may have become equally popular with the farmers, but with it the farmers are lurking. After all, it is playing with the legal certainty of these entrepreneurs. Only, they never tell me. We read that the Council of State writes that exempting existing uses is not a legal basis. The Secretary of State therefore takes this part out of the law. That's good. Our concern is that it looks like the Secretary of State is trying to pull the same trick in another jacket. I am referring to the autonomous development, which it does not seem to want to subject to a habitat test. Isn't that the same wine in old bags, with the same problems and the same continuation of uncertainty? Can the Secretary of State answer that? The final point from the Council of State report that I really want to recall here is that the Section writes that there is an understanding of the desire to put an end to the existing uncertainty among entrepreneurs about the legality of their activities, but concludes that the proposed amendment to Article 19d leads to incomplete implementation of Article 6, third paragraph Habitats Directive. The Council writes: "Keeping the cases in which third parties have relied on Article 6, third paragraph, and in which this provision has been examined, the direct effect of the latter provision, in conjunction with the principle of formal legal force, cannot be taken as an argument to make an exception to the requirement of a prior assessment." What are we reading in this play? Those entrepreneurs who have been tested owe their legal certainty to the people who have gone to court. In view of all the attempts made here to blackmail people who go to court, I would like to remind you here that that very step to the courts was the only step towards the legal certainty of farmers. So those were the professionals. Thanks to them, the farmers who have been tested know where they stand. Can we perhaps stop taking such organisations and citizens to court, for example, like the Working Group on Maintaining the Peel and the Open Polders Foundation, who had the nerve to go to court against all tribulation, as a result of the failing policy that we ourselves have signed up for? It may be vain hope, but I'll try anyway. The question before us is whether this Secretary of State will break the present legislative amendment with the failing strategies of the past. Or does this new construction also allow farmers and nature to muddle again? Perhaps it would have been better if the Secretary of State had invented a construction and not based on a construction that is in the tradition of giving away development space that is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	I want to correct something, including for the Acts. It was said that we are responsible for the failing policy. The Freedom Party is the only party that has opposed the policy, including Natura 2000, which the Animal Party has agreed to, especially since 2006, the year in which I became a Member of Parliament. So you have to stay clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	I'm afraid that kite won't fly. Mr Graus probably cannot help the fact that the Netherlands has agreed internationally that we would protect nature, but that is what we are legally bound to do. You can be against that. You can also tell farmers that you do not like the rules of Natura 2000, the Bern Convention and the UN Convention on Biodiversity, but we are committed to that. If you pretend to be able to get rid of those legal obligations to farmers, you will knowingly risk their legal certainty. Mr Graus and the PVV do not have that power. We are committed to that. I think you should say that honestly when you oppose the rules of nature, or else you're gonna turn your back on the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's not true. Mrs Ouwehand is right that unfortunately we did not achieve a majority, but Mrs Ouwehand also said that we are responsible. No, we don't. From 2006 onwards, I was the only one who predicted the misery for farmers, gardeners and fishermen as a result of all the Brussels activities: Natura 2000 and suffocating legislation and regulations. My motions have not been supported by anyone, nor by the Party for Animals. And now suddenly it's the left-wing goat wollen socks that alerted the farmers in time. My nose, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr Graus might want to be the boss of the Netherlands on his own, but I am incredibly glad that this is not the case. Under the rule of law, a politician such as Mr Graus simply has to respect the laws in force here. The Nature Protection Act states that you cannot put so many chickens and pigs in a barn that it destroys nature. If you don't tell the farmers that and if you pretend to be able to abolish the rules of nature, you may be popular, but you're making a fool of the farmers. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Graus, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	This isn't true. If we had been supported, the majority would have decided that way. This is a parliamentary democracy. So what Mrs Ouwehand says is just wrong. I want this recorded in the Acts for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	I am really wondering whether Mr Graus is deliberately pretending not to understand it or whether that is really the case. In the latter case, I am deeply concerned and, in fact, in the former case. Mr Graus, we can't wipe out international agreements overnight, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	Anything's possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	Anything you can do? Okay, this seems like a pointless discussion to me. The Animal Party is a strong supporter of the polluter pays principle, which has just been discussed in an interrupting debate with Mrs Van Veldhoven. That principle is not only fair, but also sensible. The cause of a problem must bear the cost of it. This is fair and sensible, because it creates an interest on the part of the polluter to take account of this pollution. This incentive is currently lacking in intensive livestock farming. If a factory farmer who has several mega stables but doesn't live in the neighborhood, would have to pay tax on the nitrogen he produces, there would be a financial interest for that entrepreneur to pollute less. This law does not apply the polluter pays principle. This is a huge omission in the incentive to ensure that the level of pollution does not increase too high on the part of entrepreneurs. We see that the opposite happens: the polluter does not pay, we pay the polluter. The factory farmer receives subsidies on less polluting stables and air scrubbers. There is a problem with that, because in Brabant it appeared that the air scrubbers were often not on or even not installed at all. This makes the measures ineffective and susceptible to fraud, and they must be paid by the taxpayer. Even if the measures were effective, the latter would remain a problem. Pollution as such is not taxed, but indirectly stimulated. It seems that the biggest polluters are most likely to have the subsidy to pollute less, because they can get the most out of the subsidy money, that's the idea. This is efficient use of taxpayers' money, but is my analysis correct that it will swallow up the largest polluters? The high nitrogen deposition ruins nature in the Netherlands. As long as we do not respect and guarantee in the law that the deposit must be returned to the critical deposition value..................................................................................................................................................................................... We are giving away new space to allow depositions on natural areas, when we have not even achieved those minimum conditions. I have tabled an amendment to ensure that the law does not give away development space until that critical deposition value has been achieved. I also have another amendment in the making on allowing plans and projects if that condition is met. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State feels about this. This is a fundamental point in the law. Are you prepared to leave the Nature Protection Act, which means that nature is protected from excessive depositions? This means that no further pollution is allowed if the natural conditions are not first in order. Or is it secretly a law to enable short-term economic development by giving away development space? I am therefore concerned about the counter component, which the Secretary of State is trying to defend, which is also being used to restore nature. Regular nature management is becoming more expensive because of the high nitrogen deposition. Heath fields and dune valleys should be plagued more frequently to prevent nitrogen accumulation. Nature managers are asked how efficiently they manage their nature, but the government does nothing to make it easier for these green organisations. The cost of the extra nitrogen will not be reimbursed and so we make forest rangers a kind of glorified garbagemen. What is the Secretary of State doing to help the green organisations get rid of the excess nitrogen? I propose that the polluter should be charged so that the playing field becomes more even.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	With all due respect to my colleague Ouwehand. I've been getting used to her getting a little acidic lately. I sit here for almost an hour listening to an acidity where the nitrogen deposition in our country almost falls apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs. Ouwehand, that should be a bit more cheerful. I get the feeling that Mrs. Ouwehand has some kind of demand that you shouldn't eat until you're back on weight. The PAS must not be introduced until our nature is fully restored. That is a strange picture, because Mrs Ouwehand also knows that we must row with the belts we have. Nature is being restored, the provinces have drawn up plans of approach, but now everything is being made very negative. At the same time, there is at last a system that tackles the nitrogen deposition. Who's happy about that? Nature! But Mrs Ouwehand is not. I have only one question: is she willing to do her best for nature and not just send out one message? In fact, Mrs Ouwehand says only one thing through all detours: all farmers leave the Netherlands, but that is not what we are talking about today. Today we are talking about PAS and its significance for nature. From this point of view, I strongly appeal to Mrs Ouwehand to be in favour of the PAS. The nature organisations are also for the PAS. A little cheerier wouldn't hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	I'd be happy to do the Secretary of State a favor, also because it's her birthday. I've already congratulated her and I'd like to bring garlands later, but I can't be very positive about this law. This cabinet, with Mrs Jacobi as government partner, cuts 50% on the nature budget. Investing in robust nature needs to be done through a few tracks: we need to make sure that nature can take a hit again, something that it can't do now, and we need to make sure that the excessive burden is dealt with. We have to do these two things first, and then we can set up a system. Nature can have something, and at least we have dealt with the worst burden on nature through agricultural reforms, by not building new megas and by reducing livestock. In that case, such a system is workable. Mrs Jacobi says to me that I should choose nature, but we should not allow these livestock farms to be so burdensome under the Nature Conservation Act and the Birds and Habitats Directives. Only, legal and policy constructions have been sought to make that possible. The Party for Animals proposes to really choose nature first. That's the lead. The Habitats Directive had to do that already, and it had to do so under the Nature Protection Act. The construction carried out by the cabinet, combined with huge cuts in nature, is not going to improve the quality of nature in the Netherlands. And if we can achieve recovery, it will be done at the expense of the taxpayer and the effects will be temporary because it is about plagging and cleaning up the mess that makes this law possible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	I note that the Party for Animals does not really see the steps being taken to strengthen our nature as blessings to count. I regret that. The Party for Animals is critical and here and there is every right to do so, but there are still no means of doing so. With that grumbling, nature doesn't get any better. That is why I would very much like her to adopt the practical approach. We have never been so far with the joint approach of the deposition on the one hand and the restoration of nature and connections on the other. I continue to appeal to Mrs Ouwehand to be a little more pragmatic and to go along, for nature, because with this acidity nature certainly does not improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mrs Jacobi admitted where the problem lies: the resources are not there now. So it recognises that nature needs more than a Programmatic Approach Nitrogen and a 50% cut, but it says "we can't do otherwise." That's exactly the problem. The Animal Party very much wants the provisions to be enforced. That is why I asked the Secretary of State how things have been over the past few years. The Nature Protection Act already favored nature. We didn't have to come up with a programmatic approach to nitrogen. The Secretary of State uses the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen to achieve minimum conservation goals including wish thinking and art and flying skills. We believe that something other than protecting nature sustainably. Let me give you an example. In the Island Polder in Noord-Holland you can find peat mosrietland. Veenmosrietland is a landing stage. From the boundary between water and land plants grow and those plants colonize the water. One already understands: it is reeds and peat moss that do this pioneering work. A large number of special plants and animals benefit from this, such as the northern vole. However, the air and water quality in the Island Polder is so bad that the peat mosritland cannot develop on its own. In order to achieve the objectives, a piece of land is plundered to grow peat mossite land in a completely unnatural way. That's not nature, that's agriculture with other goals. We object to taxpayers' money being named 'natural money' for such measures. That is not to invest in nature; that is to clean up the mess that we could have dealt with if we were to reform intensive livestock farming and return to an agriculture that does not burden nature excessively. For example, we need to see the recovery measures that appear in the bill: unnatural, often even counter-natural; art and flying, in order to hit the cliffs on targets. The original objective of the Habitats Directive, the protection of nature and biodiversity, has become a technocratic exercise. And that's what the conservationists are getting the blame for! For example, this goes completely against the opinion of the Council on the environment and infrastructure. The conditions for nature must be restored, so that nature can stand on its own feet. The Plan Bureau for the Environment also warns in its analysis of the Nature Pact that the recovery measures will only have a temporary effect and that the high nitrogen deposition will have to sustain high nature management costs. I ask the Secretary of State exactly how high these costs are, given the objectives it intends to achieve with this law. Because there isn't any money. The cabinet cuts 50% on the nature budget. Should we conclude that the budget that goes to nature is almost entirely swallowed up by the recovery measures, which are not investments in nature, but I would like to say once again that money for cleaning up the mess? That is really something else. The present nitrogen deposition is higher than the critical deposition value, so nature cannot be sustainably maintained. Environmental conditions remain too weak for it to function independently. The Water Target Framework Directive does not even come into sight with this bill. They are also an important benchmark, I would think. I have tabled a number of amendments to that effect. I wonder why the Secretary of State did not include the objectives in the Water Framework Directive in the law. Apart from the high costs, continuous intervention in nature to achieve the goals is alien to nature. That's what I wanted to say today. Nature is the independent functioning of ecological processes, and management and restoration measures are by definition an infringement. It may be necessary to protect biodiversity, but do enough at the front to actually legitimise such measures. We do not have the impression that this is being done now. Delivering a product conservation goal with remedial measures is a violation of the true identity of nature. However, conservation targets must be met at least in order to preserve biodiversity. That's what we committed ourselves to internationally. According to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, the current policy will achieve 65% of the international goals in 2027. That is far too little and far too late. What's that gonna be like with the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen? Has the Secretary of State had the consequences of the PAS passed on by the PBL and has the release of the milk quota been taken into account? Is the Secretary of State satisfied with achieving 65% of the targets in 14 years' time? When does she want to achieve 100% of the goals, and when does she not want art and flying? I also have two amendments in preparation on this point. No development space should be able to be forgiven and plans and projects should not be allowed to continue if conservation targets have not been met. That should be your main calibration moments if you really think it's about nature recovery. The Bureau of Legislation is still working on our amendments, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if she can embrace them. That would be proof that it is really her to do the restoration of nature. I conclude by saying that on 10 June 1994 in the Netherlands it came into force that sensitive nature should not be taxed to such an extent that it would deteriorate: the Habitats Directive. It was my birthday. I was 18 years old. I thought it was a wonderful gift: getting real nature protection on your 18th birthday is much more fun than a car. But the Secretary of State can do the math, of course. It was 1994, I'm almost 38 now. So 20 years later, that target has not come into sight once. The Secretary of State's birthday is today. Let her convince me that I can do it. I say, it's high time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I would almost ask if you already have a car, but I am being whispered that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Do you need a short suspension? By the way, we can also suspend for lunch. Otherwise, we'll have to suspend for lunch during your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'll leave that to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	Then I suggest we suspend the meeting for 45 minutes for lunch. Then there is a brief arrangement of work and we will resume this debate with the first-term response.
