ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the legislative proposal aimed at abolishing the WGR plus regions, which at the same time provides the basis for the creation of two compulsory transport regions in the Randstad, with the possibility of doing so elsewhere. The presentation of this proposal on the last day of the year is based on the envisaged entry into force on 1 January 2015. The pressure of this date was such that the related concept of the AMvB under the Transport of Passengers Act 2000 was already before the First Chamber and even sent for advice to the Council of State before the written procedure in this Chamber was completed. My group considers this to be wrong and undesirable. Continuity is good, but care represents a value of its own. Against the background of the above, the CDA Group has a number of questions to the government, expecting the Minister to give an adequate response. My group's questions are divided into two fundamental questions concerning the government's vision of the administrative organisation in the Netherlands, and two questions of an operational nature. First, the fundamental considerations. In the reply, the government states that the primary motive for abolishing the plus regions is the restoration of the main administrative structure: the Empire, provinces and municipalities. This argument even weighs so heavily that, according to the government, it is irrelevant how the plus regions function. According to all kinds of evaluations, they function satisfactorily. The government also considers that the democratic legitimacy of the plus regions is irrelevant. The government therefore considers that a discussion based on whether or not the plus regions are sufficiently democratically legitimised is superfluous. The government does not consider that they are relatively short-lived, and the question is whether they should be abolished again for this reason. After all, the main structure is at stake. Now that the original perspective of the so-called city provinces is no longer on the table, the main structure needs to be restored, regardless of whether or not the real situation in 2015 makes it desirable. The principle is guiding. However, if we look at the plus regions purely from the point of view mentioned above, my group is surprised that, precisely because of'special circumstances', we are using two compulsory transport regions in the Randstad, with the possibility of setting them up elsewhere in the country. My group can imagine that, on the basis of these arguments, no new regions will be established, but it is another matter to eliminate what already exists. I am inclined to say that it is one thing: either it is a matter of principle and then it must be eliminated with all the compulsory aid structures, or there are reasons to depart from them, taking account of the basic administrative structure, and then those derogations must be assessed on their merits. We would like to receive a careful response from the government. One must therefore either apply a principle and be consistent in it, or adopt a starting point on which exceptions are possible, which exceptions or a substantive assessment are required. I have deliberately always referred to this as 'obligatory' in order not to make it too difficult for the Minister to deal with the issue. When we look at the reality of the administrative division, we see that the trend is rather distant from the main structure and that the government is making an important contribution to it. In addition to the plus regions, we see, among other things, the regular WGR partnerships, the RUDs and the security regions. Recently, WGD legislation has even been amended to increase the democratic content of WGD and two new forms of cooperation have been introduced. It can now be said in the reply that the backgrounds of these above-municipal and sub-provincial links differ, or that there is voluntary cooperation as opposed to compulsory cooperation, remains the fact that the main structure is seriously affected. In addition, the three major decentralisation operations are expected to increase the quantity and intensity of municipal cooperation. In formal terms, the Minister can insist that this is a voluntary matter, or that it is a phenomenon with a special background, but the fact is that it does affect the main structure somewhat in the background. Moreover, we can sometimes question the voluntary nature of the matter in a material way. We would like to receive a separate response from the government. That brings me to my second, overarching question: what is the government's vision of the evolving real administrative division of the Netherlands? Next, a few comments on the operational aspects. The very nature of the Rotterdam-Den Haag city region and the Amsterdam city region requires targeted and intensive cooperation between the municipalities concerned on a wide range of topics. The municipalities concerned have found each other there. Both areas are in a process of shaping their cooperation in what they themselves call "Metropolic Regions." My group cannot imagine, on the basis of the government's argument alone, that an exception should be made to the main structure through the compulsory transport regions in the Randstad. In our opinion, we can imagine that. My group has taken note of the change proposed by the government in the AMvB concept. This amendment strengthens the obligation to integrate transport regions not into the Metropolitan regions but into the creation of separate transport regions. We can feel that change well. If my group has understood correctly, the Metropolitan regions will still be designated for a transitional period in preparation for the establishment of transport regions. How much time is the government's estimate to allow that transition to take place? Is the government prepared to set a maximum transitional period, for example a year? We can technically give this a certain form. Is the Minister prepared to keep the Chamber informed in the interim of the progress made on this issue? The second operational issue concerns the abolition of the plus regions. The government has stated that the plus regions can continue on a voluntary basis if they so wish. The government made that clear in the reply. The UNG, on the other hand, raises the question of what is the point and the point of the removal of O.V. responsibilities and resources. What is the Minister's response to this observation? The VNG states in a memo dated 3 December 2014 that the transfer of the BDU funds to the provinces violates the agreements in the Administrative Agreement between Rijk, provinces, municipalities and water boards. That administrative agreement expressly stipulates that the BDU funds are to be transferred traffic and transport to the "general funds." It is important in this context that these are "funds." The UNG points to the loss of the legal guarantee of close consultation between provinces and municipalities on the use of the BDU funds and the fact that in future, in the words of the UNG, the municipalities are at the mercy of the provinces, which are faced with austerity in the eyes of the UNG. We are looking forward to the Minister's response to this statement by the UNG. How does the Minister see the negotiating position of the municipalities in this respect vis-à-vis the province? We are asking whether the government is prepared to reconsider the chosen direction of choice if there are unexpected structural problems? We look forward with interest to the reaction of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. We have before us a legislative proposal dealing with two issues at the same time: the abolition of WGR-plus areas and the introduction of two transport regions. I will therefore pay attention to both in my contribution. But first I would like to thank the Minister and his officials for answering the questions raised in the written round. I would also like to make another point in advance. In the reply, it is made clear how far the WGR-plus organisations are already pre-sorting for the adoption of this bill. Of course, it is good and understandable that prior thought should be given to possible changes that are on the way. But, I ask the Minister, surely it cannot be that by preparatory acts aimed at a possible legislative change, irreversible steps have already been taken before the First Chamber has been able to consider the legislative proposal? Can the Minister confirm that? It is not the first time that this Chamber has commented on the pre-implementation of legislation that this House has yet to pass. Especially in cases where legislative changes have significant human consequences for the institutions concerned, there is a high likelihood that these institutions will drain during the period immediately preceding the planned date of entry into force of the new law. Does the Minister recognise this possibility and, if so, does he, from his responsibility for the legislative process, see opportunities to prevent the Supreme Court from being placed before the facts of the case in the future? The abolition of the WGR-plus areas is justified by the Government in its response by the argument that these areas had already been created as temporary structures under the 1994 Framework Act, as a kind of quarter-timer for the city provinces. At that time, this objective legitimized an infringement of the main administrative structure of the Empire, provinces and municipalities. The perspective of these city provinces has not become reality and the approach to the challenge in and around the metropolitan areas has since changed substantially, the government states. A change in the administrative organisation in metropolitan areas is no longer relevant, partly because a stable culture of cooperation has emerged over the years. That is why, according to the government, the arguments that justified compulsory cooperation at the time no longer apply. So the main administrative structure can be restored. Can the government explain why it was decided in 2006 to give the WGR+plus governance a permanent status and what changed in the six years after that, which led to the proposal to abolish these WGR+regions? The government's position on the abolition of WGR-plus regions was based on neither democratic legitimacy nor lack of it nor on their functioning. There's something tragic about that, isn't there? The WGR-plus regions functioned well according to evaluations, but the cabinet clearly states that it did not give much weight to these evaluations in the definition of the position. Then you do well as an administrative body and then that doesn't count! Can the government tell us what the importance of these evaluations was? The desire to invest tasks as much as possible within the directly democratically legitimized main structure of the Empire, provinces and municipalities has led to this intention to abolish the WGR-plus regions. My group can follow the argument of democratic legitimacy very well. The members of my group also agree with the government that the main rule in our administrative system is that the bodies belonging to the main structure should be able to decide for themselves where they cooperate with whom and in what form of cooperation. However, the government says that the argument of democratic legitimacy has not been decisive in this legislative proposal either. Moreover, where much of the cooperation within the WGR-plus will be taken over by ordinary WGR-schemes, the democratic legitimacy does not change, according to the government in the response. The democratic legitimacy of the WGR schemes lies in the decision of the relevant administrative bodies and the representative bodies. In the case of the WGR-plus scheme, the government considers that the democratic legitimacy lies in the legislator's decision. In practice, it doesn't matter either, according to the government. In both cases, the involvement in the management of the grouping can be fully realised by the participating authorities, as stated in the response. On this issue of democratic legitimacy, my group has a number of questions for the government. Firstly, does the Minister consider that the involvement of citizens in tasks invested in common arrangements is likely to be sufficiently guaranteed for various tasks which are still included in the WGR-plus schemes? If not, what does the Minister intend to do about it? Secondly, does the Minister consider that the municipal councils are sufficiently well-equipped and have sufficient control over common regulations to enable them to be adequately monitored? If not, if it lacks sufficient control, what does the Minister intend to do about it? Could common auditing chambers, for example, be helpful in this respect? I come to the point of transport regions. Due to the special situation in Amsterdam, Haaglanden and Rotterdam, the government has chosen to make an exception to the proposal to transfer the transport tasks of the WGR-plus areas to the provinces. According to the government, the special situation lies in the accumulation of tram-metro and bus networks in those areas, coupled with their own municipal transport companies. Now it is always arbitrary to determine when a situation is special enough to justify an exception. That is a question of political-administrative weighting. I will not therefore ask where exactly is the cumulation point above which a special situation can be discussed. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not possible for other areas to develop in the future in such a way that they can also be included in the special category. In the reply, many words are devoted to the mandatory or non-compulsory nature of a transport region. The government states that this bill does not oblige the establishment of a transport region. If Amsterdam, Haaglanden and Rotterdam do not establish a voluntary public body, the main rule is that powers and resources fall to the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u4	I am listening with great interest to a good colleague's speech. He asked the government how it would react if there were a development towards a country-wide establishment of transport regions. I support my question in the earlier argument about the qualifications of an extended local government or other forms of cooperation. What is the view of the PvdA Group if this development were to become a reality, not only in the Randstad, but in all regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u5	My question to the Minister was whether this future development would be possible outside the two areas now foreseen. Perhaps the answer from the government is that it does not expect that, but that it has to wait because in these two areas there are mainly private transport companies. However, should the Minister say that this is not excluded, I would say that there should also be an exception if an exception is possible here. However, I await the Minister's answers on what he thinks is the prospect for the future. It is very concisely stated why these two exceptions have been made and my question is whether these exceptions might also apply elsewhere in the future. As I said, if Amsterdam, Haaglanden or Rotterdam do not set up a voluntary public body, the main rule is that powers and resources fall to the provinces. At the same time, the bill stipulates that the area of a transport region can be designated at AMvB. Can such an AMvB be decided only at the request of a voluntary public body, I ask the Minister. If not, what is left of the voluntary nature of a transport region? Meanwhile, the design of the AMvB has been modified. In itself, it is rather odd that a first concept was drawn up before the First Chamber had considered the bill on which that AMvB is based. A second concept has already been formulated, while we are only discussing the legislative proposal today. Does the Minister consider this to be a desirable course of action? According to the updated version of the concept of the AMvB, the public sector body should limit itself to traffic and transport. The reply shall describe this situation as desirable. Can the Minister indicate whether the restriction to transport matters is a wish or a requirement? If the latter is the case, does this mean that the metropolis region, for example Rotterdam/The Hague, cannot be the public transport body because the metropolis region wants to cooperate in more areas than just in the area of traffic and transport? This would mean that there would be a separate transport authority next to a metropolis region. In that case, Mrs Van Bijsterveld also pointed out that my question is what date this separation from metropolitan region and transport authority should be formally achieved. Or should the metropolitan area be confined to traffic and transport? We would also like to know when this formal restriction should take place. Participation of the provinces in the transport regions is not decisive for the government to designate them. Does this mean that if provinces wanted to participate in the final transport regions, they would be entirely dependent on the municipalities in the planned transport region whether or not they could participate in the transport region? If so, does the government consider that appropriate given the province's responsibility for traffic and transport in the province as a whole? If the province and municipalities would cooperate in a common transport and traffic regime, how is the provincial supervisory role regulated? If the province were to transfer powers to the common regime, supervision would shift to the Empire, according to the government. But what if that doesn't happen? Can the Minister imagine a situation in which the province does participate in a common system of traffic and transport but does not transfer powers? Finally. On what basis is the government's hope, as stated in the reply, that the municipalities and provinces concerned are still taking steps to achieve a fruitful form of cooperation which, on the one hand, allows municipalities to continue to work together on accessibility in their region and, on the other hand, allows the provinces to contribute to this through their responsibility for regional transport and the wider provincial profile? How would the government assess the situation in which such fruitful cooperation does not arise? At present, discussions between the province of Zuid-Holland and the Metropolitan Region Rotterdam/The Hague seem to be at an impasse on the question of the transport region, unlike in the case of the regional government of Amsterdam and the province of Noord-Holland. Our group regrets that. Does the government intend to take initiatives to break the deadlock between the Rotterdam/The Hague Metropolitan Region and the province of Zuid-Holland? The members of the PvdA Group look forward to answering their questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. In discussing this legislative proposal, my group, as we did in the written preparation, would like to involve the General Measure of Management to amend the passenger transport decision 2000. This is because it regulates the new transport regions to be set up. For my group, our position on the establishment of these transport regions is decisive. In short, the VVD Group supports the abolition of the plus regions and is not really charmed by the transport regions in the two Randstad areas, but understands and accepts the pragmatism of the solution for an integrated transport and transport policy there, but under the conditions that they cannot expand into a new form of plus region in terms of structure and that the involvement of the two provinces is secured. We welcome the fact that municipalities are also free to engage in voluntary cooperation in all other policy areas. The strengthening of local autonomy, as well as the preservation of local autonomy, can benefit from cooperation and the pragmatism of extended local government. As we also argued in the policy debate in June 2013, the VVD attaches importance to this form of voluntary cooperation, which, by the way, cannot be non-binding. We do, however, want to keep a watchful eye on the democratic legitimacy and interdependence of municipalities in such cooperation. With the Minister, my group sees not only an increasing willingness, but also an increasing self-evident willingness to cooperate. Therefore, the Minister is confident that cooperation will continue on a voluntary basis in the forthcoming abolition of the plus regions. He also gives a number of examples of this. Does he think that, without external pressure, these cooperations will be as effective as the plus regions in policy areas other than transport and transport? It is no secret that the VVD has never been a strong supporter of the complex aid structures that have always been established on and between the border of provinces and municipalities, such as agglomeration councils, urban districts, BN regions and, in recent years, the compromise of the plus regions. They are aid structures that, with the pendulum of the clock, indicate the imperfections of our domestic administration, but which also each time lead to such uncertainty and discontent that they are lifted and we return safely to the familiar house of Thorbecke, to take all the inconveniences for granted to the next new invented structure. I've worked administratively on both sides of the border between province and municipality for years. With the distance I can now take, I suggest that the border conflicts between the two domains of all times will remain, with or without a support structure. It is then mainly up to the legislator not to give food to this and to be clear about the different positions and responsibilities. My group does not yet believe that this is reflected in the establishment of the transport regions. The implementation of the proposed "meaningful position" of the provinces is left to the existing field of action within the regions. That is what my group thinks for the legislator and the Minister as a mate, Mr President, is very thin. The Minister states in the reply that a distinction between provinces is possible under Article 106 of the Province Act. However, this is not a distinction between provinces, but a distinction between tasks and powers within the provincial borders. In the written preparation, the VVD called on the Minister to give more substance to the concept of'meaning position', but unfortunately he did not do so in the reply. We therefore urge the Minister once again to do so now. The VVD welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has adapted the AMvB in such a way that the transport region should be a common scheme created exclusively for the regional traffic and transport declaration. In the opinion of the VVD, this also offers the opportunity to ensure the meaningful position of the province in it. The adaptation of the AMvB as regards the procedure for its establishment, I agree with what my colleague Mr Koole has said, but this means that a new common system must be established in both areas. What does this mean for the continuity of the continued transport regions? How long will it last, and why hasn't there been a horizontal clause, like the CDA asked? We understand that the day-to-day administration of the common region............................................................................................................................................... My group would like this situation to be subject to a deadline. We believe that a period of six months is effective, but I also heard other deadlines. It should be possible to set a time limit, shouldn't it? If that doesn't work, it'll stop as far as we're concerned. The VVD would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. We would like the Minister to set clear limits on this point and keep the pressure on it. To sum up, here's what I'm saying. The VVD supports the proposal, in particular because the transport region within the modified AMvB does not allow for mixing with other tasks, but still has questions and comments on the so-called meaningful position of the provinces and the duration of the transitional period after the entry into force of this law. We look forward to the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u7	I'll just press the bell right now. I would like to make it clear that there will be a maiden speech so that those who are not in the Chamber can be aware of it. Mr Meijer, you may slowly walk to the speaker's seat. I see you're even walking. That's really part of it and that's also good, because that gives everyone the opportunity to come in. Mr Meijer, I give you the opportunity to make your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u8	Madam President. I remember the future. Part of that future lay in a new adapted governance model for at least Amsterdam and Rotterdam. This was part of the search for administrative renewal half a century ago. In the largest cities and their increasingly urbanised environment, it was about more democracy, less bureaucracy and more direct results for the people. The idea was that the traditional division of labour between provinces and municipalities could provide less and less, because the Netherlands has changed considerably since Thorbecke. From a sparsely populated rural society with predominantly small cities, we have been transformed into a highly urbanised society. Despite the gradual incorporation of many peripheral municipalities in core municipalities, urban development has grown far beyond the municipal boundaries. Urban agglomerations have become important for regional education, culture and health services as well as for employment, international trade and technological innovation. Such areas require much more intensive public intervention in the areas of environmental management, public transport and housing. This intervention must be capable of being influenced and controlled on an appropriate scale for the inhabitants. reclassification and scaling-down of provinces, each with a large city at its core, can be a useful tool for this purpose. In predominantly urban provinces, this can lead to a different set of tasks. The Labour Party, the minister's party, deserves the honour of encouraging this administrative renewal in the early 1960s. It was not by chance that this started around our two largest cities in the Randstad, which seem to have a special status in the current bill, now in the form of a transport region added between municipalities and provinces. Since then, the reasons for increasing attention to urban agglomerations and a targeted distribution of finances and competences have only grown. The current plus regions were a "toast price," the provisional final result of a series of experiments with high expectations. They were first presented as a temporary solution and then even as a permanent solution, but now they are seen as a problem. If you don't remember why they were founded, it's obvious to abolish them. Plusregions, which function as an additional administrative layer next to the municipality and province, are maintained outside the voters and are not loved by anyone. For these reasons, the SP has previously argued for smaller provinces, but has never been in favour of this plus-region model. The real question today is not whether the plus regions are being abolished or not. The main question now is whether and, if so, how, after that abolition, the government will pay sufficient attention to improving the quality of administration in our largest urban agglomerations. The deficit that we wanted to resolve 50 years ago has still not been resolved. This bill attempts to put an end to half a century of studies, discussions and experiments aimed at improving quality. This attempt to cut everything off has probably been in vain, because new discussions, experiments and conflicts about it are already announcing themselves. Following the adoption of this law, the positive regions in a weakened form may, if they so wish, continue voluntarily. Nor will the call for change be stunned. I return to the renewal that has never been successful. It is precisely because of this that this process has long claimed a lot of administrative attention and has resulted in many notes and debates in councils, states and chambers. This will probably continue to be the case in the future, until the underlying problem really is resolved. In 1965 the public body Rijnmond was first established, to do all the things around Rotterdam that the province, the core city and the outskirts themselves could no longer handle. A directly elected Rijnmondraad of 81 members with a chosen day-to-day administration of six committed persons had to shape this. Rijnmond's existence has had a major impact on the environmental, public transport, housing and quality of life that has remained behind in this area for more than twenty years. The combination of municipal and provincial powers focused on the urban region was a success, not only in the eyes of directors, but also for action groups at the bottom that tried to further improve the quality of the policy. For the inhabitants, the administrative maze was replaced by a clearly accessible board. The only weakness of this successful model was that it added an additional layer of governance between the unchanged maintained province and the large city, and that this intermediate administration could only exist by taking away ever more powers from the old levels of government. That was asking for conflict. Partly for this reason, the simultaneous directly elected urban administration for Amsterdam and its surroundings was postponed and finally adjusted. In the early 1980s, the government came to the right conclusion that the administration could become more compact and transparent by turning Rijnmond from an added intermediate administrative layer to a fully-fledged province, through the division of South Holland. The Rijnmond area and the southern region around Dordrecht and Gorinchem would become a new province together. South Holland has more inhabitants than the five provinces of Groningen, Friesland, Drenthe, Overijssel and Flevoland and comprises two of the three largest cities in our country. Even those new separate provinces around Rotterdam and The Hague would be among the largest provinces in our country. Rijnmond participated in the Interprovincial Consultation in advance of the upcoming upgrading of the status. In the mid-1980s, the then Minister of the Interior, Rietkerk, took a surprisingly different course. His solution was to abandon the division, fragmentation of the Rijnmond powers by returning them to the old levels of government and converting the Central Environment Office Rijnmond into a common scheme in which municipalities and the province participated together. The college of GS van Zuid-Holland, which opposed the forthcoming split, paid a high price for this. South Holland was allowed to stay large, but became irrelevant in relation to a million of its inhabitants. The province voluntarily waived most of its powers in relation to the municipalities of Rotterdam and The Hague. Those two cities were granted more or less independent provincial status in many areas, but without their immediate neighbouring municipalities, which remained entirely subject to provincial jurisdiction. This was very clumsy for the coherence of policies within the agglomerations and their controllability for the inhabitants. Something similar was agreed between Noord-Holland and Amsterdam. The two large Randstad provinces always had little control over their big cities, but now they almost completely withdrew from them. Such near-province-free cities were not the ideal final solution either. More attention was given to promoting the cohesion between large cities and the immediate surroundings. In the early 1990s, the plan to reorganise the Netherlands into 25 provinces emerged, each as much as possible with a large city at its centre. This model has lasted for a long time in the form of 25 police regions. For the small provinces with a large central core, such as Groningen, Friesland, Drenthe, Utrecht and Zeeland, nothing would have to change, but Noord-Holland, Zuid-Holland, Overijssel, Gelderland, Noord-Brabant and Limburg would be divided. At that time Zuid-Holland was no longer angry about this, but mainly Gelderland and Overijssel were at odds. Partly for this reason, a new model followed: division of small city provinces at the expense of the territory of the surviving large rural provinces. A framework law was introduced in 1994 as a temporary solution pending the establishment of these city provinces. And not so long ago, in 2005, seven cooperation regions were converted into final plus regions. The plus regions differ widely. In Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam it was the forerunners of city provinces. Around Enschede and Eindhoven they were the starting point for the previously envisaged separate Twente and Zuidoost-Brabant provinces, with also a lot of rural areas. In Gelderland, the plus regions were an attempt to create a new twin city Knooppunt Arnhem-Nijmegen. For Utrecht it was mainly an arrangement between core city and the urbanized outskirts within a small province. The Parkstad Zuid-Limburg around Heerlen participated voluntarily. The choice of plus regions then meant above all: we no longer know how to proceed, so we are going to experiment with diversity. This extremely weak final solution is now being converted into controversial transport regions for two areas and, for the rest, nothing at all. If you put that in addition to the original intentions, expectations and efforts, the outcome is a nightmare scenario. What the government is now offering is yet another retreating movement, again with a consolation prize. The mandatory plus regions referred to as forerunners of urban provinces disappear, but as a consolation price, around the largest cities with their own transport company there are two mandatory separate inter-municipal transport regions, which have an important provincial core responsibility. Is the government passively watching how these transport regions will be the subject of a struggle with the provinces? Or will the new consolation price for the core public transport task be withdrawn in the long term? This bill seems to ignore the long history and the renewed debate on an exemption position for the large agglomerations almost completely. Forgotten are the reasons for the renewal. That innovation is gonna die. The old administrative layer of the then-deprecated historic counties and dukes, which we now call provinces, has won the battle. It survives and is even strengthened by the return of previously diminished tasks and funds. In other European countries, this is being dealt with differently. In Germany, Greater Berlin and Greater Hamburg are two of the sixteen separate Länder. In the series of state reforms in Belgium, Brussels has been given the position of an extra-provincial region, with a status different from the two Länder of Flanders and Wallonia, and with its own government which, in addition to the core city, also covers eighteen other urbanized municipalities. This model is now also being considered for the second big city, Antwerp, which should be separated from the province of the same name. The province of Antwerp will now live as a Central Brabant. We thought that Central Brabant was around Tilburg, but it is east of Antwerp. In France, all major urban agglomerations, consisting of large numbers of small municipalities, have long been governed in a way that is very similar to our plus regions. Cities such as London, Madrid and Vienna also have separate status, which is very different from what is common in the rest of their country. In the Netherlands, we are constantly hearing the same need. Drivers of the largest cities feel more related and connected to large urban areas abroad than to the countryside surrounding their agglomeration. They want to play an important economic and cultural role within individual states, Europe and the world, not being hindered by unfocused provinces. The mayor of Eindhoven explains on television how important his city and his agglomeration should become as a carrier of our future. The mayor of The Hague has been arguing for years to give his city a look similar to that of New York. He found his colleague in Rotterdam willing to participate in a joint project focused on traffic, economy and a multitude of other issues. The planned abolition of the plus regions Rotterdam-Rhinmond and Haaglanden is used to start immediately with a scaling up by merging these two into a reinforced voluntary plus region. Mergeing these two nearby cities into one "Rotterhaag" is not a new idea. In other forms it was also mentioned in the fifties and the eighties of the last century. For a number of years now, the region has been building up a new intermediate administrative layer, the Metropolitan Region. As with the division proposal of 30 years ago, the province of Zuid-Holland is concerned. Combination of the compulsory transport region with voluntary cooperation based on the Common Schemes Act once again results in the forerunner of a city province, but, like the plus region, this does not involve direct elections. If the government wants to give the opportunity to create city provinces around Amsterdam and Rotterhaag via this detour, it is quite discussable, as far as I am concerned, but they should have a fully democratic governance model. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he leaves that opportunity open. Finally, I have a number of questions. Unlike previous proposals in this area, I do not see a vision for the future or a solution to the problems to be expected. I'm asking the Minister what he's gonna do with the next Metropolitan region. Can this region take counterparting municipalities against their will? Is the Minister going to cause an argument between Metropolitan Region and South Holland? Can the region with a wide range of tasks create an additional layer of governance? Can this region operate voluntarily alongside a high-level transport region, but should it not merge with it, or simply merge temporarily? This question has already been asked by others. Do provinces, on the basis of equality with municipalities, have to participate in the transport regions, or are they, in fact, completely outside of them? And why do the funds earmarked for local transport tasks go to the provinces instead of to the municipalities that counted on them in the four plus regions? How is Almere's position outside the Amsterdam transport region regulated, since the Minister's earlier attempt to put Amsterdam and Almere together in a huge Flutland province is fortunately not going to happen? What are the consequences for the earlier development of Arnhem and Nijmegen into an important twin city along the banks of Nederrijn and Waal? How does the Minister look at the future prospects of the Mayor of Eindhoven? Does the Minister have a view on the future of the administration of the metropolitan areas? Depending on the Minister's reply, I am considering submitting a motion in the second term aimed at clarifying such a vision of the future, in order to avoid the predictable future problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u9	Mr Meijer, congratulations on your maiden speech. On 8 July 2014, you were sworn in as a member of this house, where you are a member of the Committee for the Interior and the High Colleges of State / General Affairs and House of the King, the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation, the Committee for Infrastructure, Environment and Spatial Planning and the delegation to the Consultative Interparliamentary Benelux Council. You studied social geography at the University of Amsterdam until 1972. After that, you worked as a geography teacher for a few years. From 1975 to 1978, you were a member of the city council of Amsterdam on behalf of the Pacific Socialist Party. For this party, you have held several national positions: Vice-President, Chairman of the People's Representatives section and editor of the Party magazine. After this party joined GroenLinks in 1990, you were also a member of the party board and vice-president. When you then switched to the Socialist Party, you became a member of the party board again. So you cannot be denied political governance. From 1982 to 1995 you were a member of the Provincial States of South Holland: first for the combination PSP-CPN-PPR and later for GroenLinks. During the 1980s, you were also head of public administration in the Rotterdam district of Bospolder-Tussendijken and later policy officer's secretariats Wijk matters and general administration at the municipality of Rotterdam. With Rotterdam, and specifically with Delfshaven, you have a special band. You were a member of the preliminary advisory council in the early 1990s in preparation for the municipality of Delfshaven and from 1998 to 2002 you were a member of the district council. Until March of this year you have also been a member of the city council of Rotterdam for two years. Your original Amsterdam heart has started to beat for 010. Since 1999, you have been the leader of the SP delegation in the European Parliament for ten years. You have dealt with transport and tourism, the EU-Croatia relationship, human rights, foreign affairs and relations with the countries of south-eastern Europe. Your plurality of administrative and political experience, ranging from the level of the district to the level of the European Union, predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber and we wish you every success. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but, as I said yesterday at another maiden speech, only after I have congratulated you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, I should like to congratulate Mr Meijer on his maiden speech. I am the first to have the opportunity to do so behind this chair. On behalf of the D66 Group, I have followed a firm line in this House on several occasions in debates on legislative proposals and policy visions affecting the administrative organisation. D66 consistently wants to start from the main administrative structure. We see this as a guarantee of a maximum, i.e. a direct, democratic basis for administrative bodies, a guarantee of full political control of administrative action and a guarantee of full and high quality, i.e. a policy of governance. We have an interesting partner here, because the government also believes that the primacy of the main administrative structure should be restored and that forms of administrative cooperation, whether or not compulsory, should therefore be reduced. On its own, we therefore support the intention set out in this proposal to abolish the so-called plus regions. This measure contributes to a more transparent division of tasks and competences between the different levels of government and thus to a more effective and efficient public administration. It is striking, however, that in defending the abolition of the plus regions, the Minister is seeking his salvation solely in the argument of strengthening the main administrative structure. This principle, but in itself essentially institutional argument, is gaining considerable strength in the light of the complementarity with the functional weaknesses of administrative aid structures. At the same time, the lack of democratic legitimacy and political control identified in evaluations, as well as the contribution of aid structures to administrative transparency and administrative pressures, would have gained much conviction in the justification for this part of the legislative proposal. It is also remarkable that the Minister, in his reply to the CDA Group, points out that the reason for abolishing the plus regions is not so much in the care of the main administrative structure but rather in the desire to respect decentralised autonomy and municipal democracy. My group is, of course, fully prepared to do so. Decentral autonomy and democracy are related, but still independent constitutional principles. I have to admit, I've kind of lost my touch there. Perhaps the Minister can provide some clarification there. It is also amazing that the Minister stays away from the question of how the plus regions have worked. From an objective and rational perspective, that is not easy to understand. My group would have liked the Minister to have given an opinion on this. Although the evaluation of the VNG Commission-Nijpels on the urban regions did not call for real problems of democratic legitimacy, political control and administrative capacity, the directors involved gave a positive political assessment of the results of this particular cooperation. I would still like to invite the Minister to give an appreciation of this investigation. Anyone who then focuses on the second main element of the bill soon understands why the Minister left it with a single argument from the main administrative structure and ignored other arguments, which expose the weaknesses of aid structures. The main thrust of the proposal is the establishment of two transport regions in the Randstad. In other words, there is a legislative proposal to abolish a special and substantial form of administrative cooperation, namely the WGR-plus, and at the same time to introduce a different, more functional form of cooperation, the transport regions. In my view, this is a rather opportunistic political approach. In order to conceal this, the Minister then needs an argument that makes it possible to declare administrative cooperation in Wgr-plusverband contrary to the main administrative structure and administrative cooperation in regular Wgr-level. The bill therefore excels in ambiguity. In other words, my group cannot properly understand how the proposed choice for the establishment of two transport regions in the Randstad relates to the intention to follow more closely the establishment in accordance with the main administrative establishment in the allocation of public authority. The Cabinet recognizes this breach of administrative system conformity in itself, but first of all motivates it with a reference to the need for specific solutions to the Randstad transport problem. The complexity of the different transport systems requires optimal cooperation between the provinces and municipalities concerned. By organising the desired cooperation in two transport regions, the cabinet expects to give the extra push for the desired cooperation. According to the cabinet, this practical solution compensates for the obvious disadvantages of the planned cooperation structure. The D66 Group is not in a position to follow this argument. We are completely unaware of how, on the basis of yet another specific aid structure, the accessibility of the two peripheral core areas in a structural sense can be kept in order or even improved. We would believe that the complexity of the transport and traffic issues in the Randstad calls for a clear and forward-looking form of government, in which decisiveness and democratic legitimacy are guaranteed in advance. In our view, transport regions are a step backwards. Anyone who guarantees that the proposed transport regions will have the best possible democratic embedding, adequate political control and the necessary power of action, I ask the Minister. And who can explain that these transport regions will not contribute to the great administrative burden in the Randstad, so I also ask the Minister. The Minister could have left it to this pragmatic argument, but paradoxically, the Minister is behind a second argument, namely that, on the basis of the establishment of a common system, the transport regions qualify as an aid structure in the form of extended local government. The Minister then tries to argue in the reply why forms of extended local government actually fit into the main administrative structure. For this purpose, the Minister is developing a constitutional dogmatic with the core being that voluntary cooperation in local tasks is institutionally and politically rooted in the participating municipalities. In this context, the WGG would offer all the possibilities for the use of control instruments from the councils and the indirect democratic legitimacy guarantees that cooperation will focus on the participating municipalities. This would be a significant difference from the obligation of the legislator to cooperate with legally direct tasks. This argument is not convincing. First of all, there is a legal allocation of tasks, although limited to traffic and transport, in this intended transport region. This makes this transport region a figure other than a pure form of extended local government, i.e. a voluntary cooperation on tasks defined by local authorities themselves. But the attempt to justify problems of democratic legitimacy and control with the positioning of the intended transport region as a form of extended local government is also failing. In the reply, the Minister first states that the democratic legitimacy of voluntary and imposed cooperation figures is guaranteed in the decision of participating bodies or in the decision of the legislator. The Minister then claims that the involvement of participating authorities in both voluntary cooperation and statutory cooperation on the basis of the instruments provided for in the WGR is fully justified. In other words, there would be no difference in democratic legitimacy. That is a very remarkable finding in two respects. Firstly, because this would make it impossible to understand why urban regions do not fit into the main administrative structure and transport regions do. The main administrative structure is characterised by an integrality of administration and an legitimizing and controlling directly elected body. No form of administrative cooperation meets these essentialia. Secondly, this is a wonderful reasoning, because this objective is totally ignorant of the generally recognised problem of the serious democratic deficit of aid structures due to only indirect legitimacy and the fact that full political control is virtually virtually non-existent. The Minister's conclusion in the reply that the government considers that the democratic legitimacy of decisions by transport regions is clearly sufficiently guaranteed is not based, in my group's view, on a state-law and administratively sound argument. Increased local government does not have the same democratic guarantees as local government. The same applies to the conclusion that the proposed transport regions are a full part of the constitutional system, unless the Minister does not take account of the main administrative structure. In that case, however, there is once again ambiguity. For this reason, I have already noted that the conclusion of the Cabinet that the establishment of the two Randstad transport regions does not affect the main administrative structure cannot continue. Another problem is that, in the government's view, the return of the still urban regional tasks of traffic and transport to the provinces is essential for a future-proof and powerful middle management with a clear profile and a clear regional direction. Mrs Huijbregts has already mentioned this. In the context of the main administrative structure, this is a correct and clear approach. However, in addition to the above reasons, the two exceptions in the Randstad are not system-compliant in that respect. My group has therefore not been able to draw from the cabinet's speeches an argument that the apparent peculiarity and complexity of the situation in the two agglomerations is sufficiently supportive and justifies the proposed exception. Then there is a whole other matter. The D66 Group does not feel comfortable from a state-law point of view with the proposal to regulate the establishment of the two Randstade transport regions at General Measure of Management on the legal basis of Article 20 (3) of the Passenger Transport Act. In the opinion of the Cabinet, this power of institution is not part of the main elements of that legislative proposal. However, we would believe that this would allow an infringement of the main administrative structure without a direct legal basis. The government intends to grant the government the power to make an exception to the general task of allocating the urban regional traffic and transport tasks to the provinces concerned, and to transfer these powers to the daily administration of public bodies in two areas to be designated. These are substantial powers: the establishment of a regional traffic and transport plan under the Plan Act, the granting of concessions under the Passenger Transport Act 2000 and the use of the BDU funds. As such, the question arises as to how far it is justified to allow such a substantial delegation to have legal effects on the basis of a decision of the Government, i.e. without an explicit legal basis.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would think that such a radical change in the system would require a direct legal basis. In other words, one of the constitutionally indicated administrative structures requires a maximum legal and democratic basis. That is to say, a regulation in the law itself. I would ask the Minister to respond to this constitutional complication. An additional complication is that this figure does not make it impossible for the transport regions thus established to be developed in the future, either on a voluntary basis or on a new form of urban regional government. This option is, for example, relevant in the light of developments in the so-called metropolis region of The Hague-Rotterdam. This has been discussed here before. My group looks at the developments in this area with great interest and does not, in advance, consider this to be a form of pitiful movement. However, a citation of this region on the basis of this bill would imply a further breach of the main administrative structure without creating an adequate legal basis. On this point, too, I would ask the Minister to respond. In summary, I come to the following findings. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the abolition of the plus regions. I am very clear about that, also in view of the debate we have had in the debate on the WGR-plus. Indeed, this figure does not fit in with the main administrative structure and lacks a democratic deficit and lacks adequate political control and ability to act. The point, however, is that, precisely because of the same shortcomings, the proposed introduction of two transport regions in my group raises fundamental concerns. In my group, therefore, there is very little interest at the moment in accepting the legislative proposal. My group also understands that in the administrative field, the abolition of urban areas will be widely supported by 1 January. The provinces are right to want a good and smooth transition from traffic and transport tasks so that passengers will suffer as little as possible. In view of the great importance that the dismantling of urban areas should not be unnecessarily blocked and the equally important thing that it should be clarified today as to whether the pre-ordering of the provinces to the new situation can continue, I propose to the Minister and to the Chamber the following. After all, it is conceivable that an agreement should be reached between the Chamber and the Minister not to allow the elements of the proposal relating to transport regions to enter into force. A second option is an agreement to prepare a novellle which removes from the proposal the section relating to the establishment of transport regions. I would like to hear how the other groups view this and whether the Minister is prepared to do so. You have to open a question like that, and I just haven't seen the Minister shake no. Depending on the course of the debate, I shall consider whether I shall put a motion to the House on this point. If the Minister shakes no a few more times, that pressure will, of course, increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Meijer on his maiden speech on behalf of my group. How beautiful it must be for a social geographer to be able to speak on such a subject as this one today. I am making a brief contribution from the Christian Union to this debate. I'll look back. In 2010, four years after the decision to convert the framework legislative areas into WGR-plus regions, the Plussen and minnen evaluation appeared. According to that evaluation, which had a practical approach, there were actually not very many minions. Cooperation in the plus regions was good, stakeholders were satisfied and the evaluation committee concluded that there was no need to change the law. However, it was noted that the WGR plus regions do not fit in well with our administrative model. That remark was made in particular by the IPO. That was a fundamental and correct remark, in my group's opinion too. In the same year the government agreement of the Rutte I cabinet appeared, stating that the plus regions would be abolished. Even after the coalition change in 2012, this intention would remain part of the cabinet policy. The cabinet wanted to abolish the plus regions as early as 1 January 2014, but we are talking about it now and we are writing December 2014. Other intentions of the cabinet for the administration of the Netherlands that are connected with this are no longer topical. I am thinking in particular of the formation of a north-wing province. The Council of State's opinion was remarkable, because it wasn't a lie. The Council of State notes in the opinion accompanying this bill that the plus regions are functioning satisfactorily and that the motivation to abolish them is lacking. The motivation that the cabinet argues and has also supplemented relates to the administrative purity in the house of Thorbecke. We have three levels of government in the Netherlands. The Wgr-plus does not fit well and also has the obvious disadvantage of suboptimal democratic embedding. In addition, the argument about intermediate forms would be more powerful if we did not have all kinds of other intermediate forms and aid structures in the meantime. There are already many cooperation arrangements in regions, even when we look at the area of security and care. However, the remark itself is fundamental and correct. The answer to the question of why it is precisely the plus regions that need to be abolished as a compulsory form of municipal cooperation is not very clear. The bill seemed to be related to the proposal for the scaling-up of the provinces, but what exactly was the intention of this? Wouldn't the cabinet with that provincial scaling up make the distance to the plus regions far too big? What would the profit have been, I wonder in this look back. The Christian Union can imagine a movement that brings more administrative order, more system, into the house of Thorbecke, but the question is whether it should be done in this way, with limited vision of the future. After all, it is not clear what exactly needs to be done next. After the end of the WGR-plus there is also a profit from this cooperation as it has grown. How will the necessary forms of cooperation be secured? What role does the province play in this? The administrative status of the two transport regions to be established remains largely unclear. Many speakers have already referred to this. Its governance would once again become a new layer of governance, and that proposal is actually inconsistent with the direction and movement of the legislative proposal. There will be an administrative layer with its own authority, the democratic embedding of which is not optimal either. In particular, my group has great difficulty with this legislative proposal on this issue. In conclusion, therefore, the question is whether we should take this step in this way. There is little insight into what needs to be done in further thinking about the administrative organisation of the Netherlands. In my group's view, it is conceivable that the provinces will be put in a more position in the future to conduct the desired and necessary direction and to have a power of perseverance towards the municipalities. We would welcome that, but the administrative context must be very clear. That's not the one right now. My group too awaits the further deliberations of this day before drawing a final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. For my part too, first of all the congratulations to Erik Meijer for his maiden speech with a beautiful historical overview. Today we are again discussing Thorbecke's house with the Minister of the Interior. We are talking here today about the abolition of WGR-plus regions and at the same time the introduction of two transport regions. Let me just say that my group is having difficulty with this proposal. Not because it is in principle in favour of WGR-plus regions, but because the arguments used are contradictory and contradictory, because it is unclear whether and how the proposals fit in with the final design of our public administration of municipalities, provinces and urban regions, because they rekindle the struggle for competence between municipalities and provinces, and because we are more or less faced with a fact. Just to stay in the terms of the house of Thorbecke: a few years ago we built some extra rooms on the landing of the house. That wasn't nice and it didn't fit very well in the architecture of our house, but it did solve a number of practical problems. The rooms also met well; both the residents of the ground floor and those of the upper floor were satisfied with it. Now we are asked to decide to break down these extra rooms on the landing again, without any direct need for it, without asking us what function these rooms fulfil, without being clear how this fits into the future major renovation of the house, and in the knowledge that the residents of the upper and lower floors will immediately resume the old struggle about who is in charge of the landing and that they will both try to claim as much space as possible there. Oh, yeah, we're building back two walk-in closets for the stuff we really don't trust the fighting residents of both floors. And the moment we have to make the decision, the residents of the extra room have already packed their stuff and the construction workers have been ordered. In fact, they're already on the sidewalk, because in two weeks the job has to be done. You can have all kinds of reservations about the mandatory WGR-plus regions, and we have them, but they did function properly. This is also one of the main criticisms of the Council of State of the current proposal: the government ignores the positive evaluation of the WGR-plus regions. It also ignores the great support for cooperation in these regions. In this Chamber we often ask the question: what exactly is this proposal going to solve? In our opinion, this Minister has still not answered this question for this bill. That is why I ask the Minister once again: what specific problems have arisen under the system of the WGR-plus regions, which is being solved by this proposal? I am not talking about generalities such as administrative spaghetti or democratic legitimacy, but about concrete problems. What will improve for citizens when this bill is adopted? In support of the draft law before us, the Minister mentions, above all, points of principle such as democratic legitimacy, although he later, I believe, withdrew that point and the main administrative structure. These arguments are used as an argument for abolishing the mandatory WGR-plus regions, but are apparently not relevant in terms of setting up the two transport regions and voluntary partnerships, which the Minister believes remain necessary. We do not follow this selective use of important arguments. My group considers it a missed opportunity that the Minister has not sought a long-term solution to cross-border cooperation in which democratic legitimacy and control are better secured. The lack of a comprehensive view of tasks, powers and scale of the public administration is reappearing here. My group notes that this legislative proposal has unleashed the struggle for competence between provinces and municipalities in full liveliness. This is evident from the contradictory opinions of VNG and IPO, but also from the fact that the political position does not seem to be so much related to the political party to which one is a member as to the level of government within which one operates. Drivers in cities such as Utrecht and Nijmegen fear loss of influence, especially with regard to public transport, while those active at provincial level want more direction in the province. And I must say that I find it very difficult to distill the public interest out of all that well-meaning functional self-interest. In particular, it raises the question of why the Minister has chosen to re-emerge this challenge of competence, where we have a system which, although not worthy of the beauty prize, has functioned well and to the satisfaction of those concerned. I come to my final point. The handling of this bill is under great pressure of time. The proposed amendment is due to take effect on 1 January 2015. This seems difficult to imagine if legislation has not been anticipated. This has been mentioned before. I would like to hear from the Minister what the situation is. Have all the processes been set up in such a way that the new structures will work on 1 January and things will go wrong if we say no now? Or are all the preparations made reversible and can one continue in the existing structures if the First Chamber would reject this bill? I would like a statement from the Minister on this point. For the rest, I await with interest the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes pending the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
