ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to the First Chamber. Before I start, I have a communication that is also useful to the Secretary of State. Mr Holdijk, who spoke yesterday, cannot be here because of an unexpected medical treatment for which he was hospitalized.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish Mr Holdijk a great deal of improvement through you. I was just so glad that he started the debate again yesterday. I'm hoping for a quick recovery. I'm also grateful to be standing here. That's not self-evident. I understand very well that several Members of this Chamber have made comments on the urgency of this legislative proposal. I will come back to that in detail in a moment. It is very nice that it has proved possible for me to defend this bill here in your midst. Well, I guess I'll get started on that. In this time of change and tradition... sorry, transition. It's tradition, too, but it has to do with Christmas. In this time of change and transition, we focus on achieving goals that we have set ourselves worldwide. By 2050, 9 billion people will have to be fed. We face the challenge of increasing productivity and reducing raw materials consumption in such a way as to meet the higher demand for food, improve the quality of the living environment and preserve natural raw materials. A further change is needed, with quality and sustainability becoming increasingly paramount. It is important that we use this transition to sustainability at both global and European level and continue to support it in the Netherlands. Mr Van Zandbrink asked in his captivating maiden speech my congratulations on the fact that the government shares the principles of the Brundtland Commission. The Brundtland Commission's report is still up-to-date and forms the basis for the United Nations' sustainability agenda. This sustainability agenda has formed the basis for the many actions in the field of sustainability worldwide. This agenda will be reinforced by the sustainable development targets set at the UN next year. Mr Koffeman and Mr Thissen asked for a different international framework: the climate agreements that have just been made in Lima. Whether or not CO emissions from livestock farming are included in the agreement will depend on the agreements that will be made next year in Paris. So that's not possible at the moment. In the Netherlands, however, until 2020, the Covenant Clean and Economical Agrosectors will apply. This reduces greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. The Netherlands is a global player in the field of agriculture and horticulture. Our Dutch agri-food sector is internationally highly regarded, making an important contribution to the economy. The sector is an important source of innovation. In my view, the Dutch agro-industry can also play an important guide role. The cabinet therefore focuses on strengthening the competitiveness of the Netherlands and making the Dutch economy more sustainable, including agriculture and food supply. Only an integrated approach can respond to the social issues raised in livestock farming. A transition to careful and sustainable livestock farming is necessary, as has just been said. This is a livestock farming where animal welfare is central, where sustainable raw materials and energy are used, emissions to the environment have been substantially reduced, so that environmental objectives are met and the burden on the environment and society can be kept to a minimum. Dutch agriculture can also make an important contribution to these sustainability challenges. This certainly applies to dairy farming. The dairy farming sector is a top international player. From large parts of the world is asked about Dutch dairy products and dairy products. There is also a great demand for Dutch knowledge and expertise. The dairy sector as a whole, I say in response to a question from Mr Van Zandbrink, offers 44 000 full-time jobs. Taking into account increased efficiency, it can be assumed that an expected growth in dairy farming by 20% will lead to around 10% increase in employment, representing 4,400 full-time jobs. The dairy sector is progressive and innovative and makes it more sustainable. A very concrete example that Mr Schaap and others referred to, I think, is the circular guide. This is a system that gives dairy farmers an insight into the effects of measures that they can implement on their farms. So for example, what is the effect of other feed on the production of phosphate? The circular guide provides important insights into company management. The dairy sector itself is now going to make use of the circular guide compulsory for dairy farmers with a phosphate surplus on their farms. The circular guide is a good example of how private instruments promote sustainability. In addition, there are limits that we naturally want to secure with public instruments. Mr Reuten asked about the image of the conflicts of interest involved in the legislative proposal. This legislative proposal is mainly concerned with balancing interests in the economic development of dairy farming, contributing to food security worldwide, in particular the growing global demand for safe dairy products, but also with achieving environmental objectives, strengthening the soil-boundness of dairy farming and, of course, last but not least, implementation of European legislation. The balance that has been made is that the sector can grow, but that it must take place within the environmental boundary conditions. On the various aspects that lie under these interests, I would like to refer to the ex-ante evaluations that have been carried out. In the context of this legislative proposal, other interests have not been explicitly weighed, as Mr Reuten mentioned. Animal welfare, landscape and health are examples of this. It is not that these interests are irrelevant. That they are relevant, I very much agree with him, but it is true that these interests are protected by laws and regulations that already exist. This is an important moment for dairy farming, because the milk quota system will expire on 1 April. This creates room for the growth of milk production. That's an opportunity. Growth cannot be unbridled, but must be within the environmental boundary conditions that follow from the Nitrates Directive. That's secured by this bill. I say this in response to a question from Mr Van Zandbrink. Mr Koffeman asks why we do not find ecological boundaries in the law. It is clear that I do not agree with him because the Nitrates Directive is the framework in this respect. Extension of production on dairy farms should not result in additional pressure on the existing system of use standards. Therefore, the law provides that dairy farmers who produce more manure are to produce more phosphate...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The latter means that manure must be removed from Dutch agriculture. That's the base. In this way, the law is not an empty law, as it is suggested. After all, the law ensures that we can meet the environmental limits laid down in the Nitrates Directive. Mr Thissen asked whether I had paid attention to the position of the dairy farmer and not just to the interests of the dairy sector as a whole. Over the past year, I have discussed the implementation of the law with representatives of dairy farmers, LTO and NMV, the dairy sector and, of course, with civil society organisations. In doing so, I have also looked specifically at the importance of the dairy farmers themselves. Mr Thissen asked why participants in the internet consultation had not responded. Perhaps it is good to say that there has been no internet consultation on this bill. For this, the given time frame for the legislative proposal was too short. By the way, internet consultation is not mandatory, but we sometimes do. We do have other legislative proposals that, for example, establish a relationship between health and intensive livestock farming, in which we do an internet consultation. I think Mr Thissen knows what I am going to answer his question about the importance of Parliament and civil society. They are also very important in my view and are anything but superfluous. Mr De Graaf asked whether it is real that we should remain below the phosphate production ceiling when the feed trail is rocking. On the basis of the ex-ante evaluation carried out by the LEI, it appears that we remain below the phosphate production ceiling provided that the feed track is indeed realised. This is therefore also an important incentive for the sector to make up for the loss of efficiency in 2013. I also expect the sector to do so, because exceeding the ceiling leads to the introduction of animal rights. That's what the industry wants to avoid. It is good to say that I would very much like to avoid that with the sector as well. The bill introduces the concept of phosphate reference. Mr Holdijk asked whether it was true that it is only transferable in family terms and is not freely negotiable. That's right. The dairy phosphate reference can only be passed on by succession or by transfer to a farmer with whom blood or association exists in the first, second and, thanks to the Lower House, also in the third degree. By limiting the marketability of the milk phosphate reference, the risk of granting unlawful State aid is avoided I would say to Mr Holdijk that it is also true that the phosphate reference is issued on the basis of the standard standard applicable at the time it is issued. When the dairy phosphate reference is issued to dairy farmers in 2015, the flat-rate standards currently in force will be taken into account and the flat-rate standards from 2013 will not be applied. We do this because otherwise the phosphate references would unintentionally be set too high. This would create air in the system. In reply to a question from Mr Holdijk, I can also say that the RVO informs companies about the size of the dairy phosphate reference. Companies whose size of the intended dairy phosphate reference is known can also view this information via my file on rv.nl. The final decisions will follow in the first months of 2015. Mr Van Zandbrink asked about the legal anchoring of the sector ceiling for phosphate. The derogation decision adopted by the Netherlands states that phosphate production of the total livestock farming should not exceed the level of phosphate production in 2002 in any year. That is, to be quite precise, 172.9 million kilograms of phosphate per year. If the Netherlands exceeds that total ceiling, we no longer meet the conditions for the derogation. Then the European Commission can/will also repeal the derogating decision. The various sectors intended not to produce more phosphate than they did in 2002. The reasoning behind this is that if all sectors do not exceed the actual level of 2002, the Netherlands will not automatically exceed the national phosphate production ceiling either. For dairy farming, this amounts to 84.9 million kilograms of phosphate. These sectoral ceilings are not legally anchored. This is not necessary either because the European Commission is simply assessing whether the total phosphate production ceiling is being respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u3	You call it a macroceiling. What does that mean per hectare? Is that the maximum of 50 kilos per hectare or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u4	With the derogation, we are allowed to drive out more manure than in Europe on average. The average is 170 kilograms. In parts of the Netherlands where this is justified for the quality of soil and surface water, this is 250 kilograms. But for some of the Netherlands where it is complicated, because environmental standards are not being met properly, the Commission has reduced it to 230 kilograms. The problem is that there are individual standards that the derogation companies have to deal with, while there is a national phosphate ceiling, which has divisions through agreements between the sectors, but they are not legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u5	I understand that the Secretary of State will soon present a General Measure of Management. What is the ceiling per hectare in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u6	I will come back to the implementation of this General Measure in a moment, but the core of it will of course be related to the concept of ground-boundity. For this we have the General Measure of Management, which explains how a farmer who would like to grow needs or does not need a certain amount of land to do so and what can still be the percentage of manure processing. But that is separate from the standards that apply under the Nitrates Directive, because they are not under discussion. The feed track is an efficient way to limit the production of phosphate. By giving less phosphate in the feed, the manure also contains less phosphate. This can, of course, be done within limits, without doing away with what the animals need in the feed. The dairy farming sector and the animal feed sector are working on this together. Unfortunately, we have noticed that in 2013 the transport track was less efficient than in 2012. The increase in phosphate production was only partly explained by an increase in the number of animals. The increase was also due to a disappointing quality of roughage because expensive soya was replaced by cheaper but phosphorus- and protein-rich rape and also because the favourable milk price increased the choice of more expensive protein-rich feed. I have urged the sector and called on it to put it back on track. This is in the interest of the sector, because it also allows you to create more space by adjusting your phosphate production downwards. You can influence that yourself. That's growth space you can earn, as it were. I like that. Mr Van Zandbrink asked questions about the impact of the feed measures. The reports of the Central Bureau of Statistics and future expectations are closely monitored. If there is a risk of overrun, it will of course be discussed with the sector so that appropriate action can be taken in good time. This is something that you also have to deal with at company level and in the sector. In the end one can switch the fastest and easiest, for example by controlling the phosphate content in concentrated feed. The measures taken with the transport track are not aimed at individual entrepreneurs but at the result for the whole sector. In the AMvB will therefore not be used on the transport track. However, the efficiency of individual entrepreneurs is taken into account. Then I come to the point of the derogation. I have also informed your Chamber in writing that it is very important that the law enters into force on 1 January 2015. One of the two reasons is that otherwise the Netherlands no longer fulfils the conditions for the derogation. The European Commission may then withdraw the derogation. To a question from Mr Holdijk whether the European Commission would accept it if the law did not enter into force until 1 April, I have to reply in the negative. The Netherlands has fought the derogation in Brussels hard. The European Commission has explicitly set the date of 1 January 2015 in the derogating decision. The European Commission and the other Member States are keen to see whether the Netherlands complies with the conditions. If the Netherlands does not, the European Commission does not even need the agreement of the other Member States to withdraw the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr Holdijk is not yet present, but the question he asked also had to do with the underlying question of whether we could have done this whole legislative process in a little more time and therefore more carefully, for example by incorporating into the law what will now be regulated in General Measure of Governance. On the other hand, the Secretary of State says it has to be by 1 January. But I do not know in the answer that she gives now that this is really mandatory; the Commission can, the Commission would, the Commission has the opportunity to. Has the Secretary of State asked the Commission whether it could do so later, and has it received a reply in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u8	It is good to mention that the decision we have simply states the date. That decision should be seen as a contract. When the Netherlands fails to comply with its part of the contract, we really have a very serious problem. There is another reason why we had to make it to January 1. This has to do with the system of calendar years. It is not possible for this law to enter into force somewhere in the middle of the year. That is, of course, why the Commission has asked for a guarantee that we will comply with it for the full year. The third point is that the Netherlands, as I have also tried to argue in the discussion with the Commission, has dragged away this derogation for the gates of hell. That was really not an easy task. We can also see that in other countries where negotiations are still underway, there is still very little doubt as to whether this derogation is being granted at all. In that light, with an increasingly stringent Commission, that is a risk that we simply cannot take. I will explain in this way what the risk is that we will run when the derogation is withdrawn, because you asked for it. Finally, I would have liked to have had more time, for all kinds of reasons, if only because I wouldn't be talking to you about why I'm not giving your Chamber more time. So if I could have, why wouldn't I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u9	That is indeed an interesting question. I conclude from this answer that the Secretary of State did not explicitly ask. Mr Holdijk referred yesterday to the exceptions granted by the Commission in relation to European manure for the treatment of the budget for security and justice, for which we also have a hard deadline. It has to be done before 1 January. Nevertheless, an exception was said to be fine in Brussels. So the Secretary of State didn't try to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u10	Perhaps it is right to mention here that the Commission is constantly asking us whether the dairy law has already been passed by the Chamber. Mr De Graaf, of course, also has experience as a director. I do not need to convince him that we were no longer able to put pressure on the Commission. At present, the Commission is constantly putting pressure on us. That's something he needs to consider when he asks this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u11	I still don't get it. We dealt with the mandatory manure treatment in the law here a while ago. At that time, the derogation was also central. In fact, the problem has been solved with the mandatory manure treatment. There is now a very different issue, namely the land-based nature of dairy farming. Whatever that dairy farming does, whether one is land-bound or not, one must remain below the limit. At the time when we dealt with the law on compulsory manure treatment here, it was also known that this compulsory manure treatment was not enough, but that there should be some more. We didn't talk about that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u12	Of course, during the treatment of the Manure Act, we have also constantly talked about the animal rights that remained over the market. I will say something about this in a moment, also in reply to your question. So it was also clear at that time that the Commission wanted to see whether that manure processing system would actually lead to a balance on the manure market. That is, of course, very important because the Commission is not concerned about whether our dairy farming is land-based or not. That's not what this conversation is about. The debate is purely about whether the Netherlands can comply with the standards set out in the Nitrates Directive and whether the derogation we have received leads to compliance with the environmental conditions set at European level. For the Commission, this can be done fine with manure processing, but the system must work. It is said that the system is getting under way, but it is not yet so stable that other conditions, namely animal rights in the poultry and pig sectors, and additional conditions for responsible growth of dairy farming, are unnecessary. Moreover, the latter has also been imposed on Ireland, for example, as a condition: make sure that this growth is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u13	One more time. The Secretary of State said so. The European Commission does not care at all whether we produce the milk ground-bound or not. It looks at the limit on phosphate production. That is why I do not understand why this law is necessary to reassure the European Commission. Why wasn't that taken at once? We talked about animal rights at the time, but that was mainly about poultry and pigs. The dairy was excluded. Now all of a sudden the dairy isn't excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u14	No, that's not true either. I informed the Chamber in December 2013 that there would be another proposal for dairy farming. That was not an introduction of dairy rights, which threatened at that time, because I gave up on that. Everyone was very happy about that back then. In that letter from December 2013, I already made the choice for the Wet responsible growth dairy farming. Even then, the choice was: either soil-based growth or manure processing or a combination of it. It's been communicated longer than the last few months. Loss of the derogation has major financial consequences. The members of D66 and the SP asked for that. Without a derogation, compared with the current situation with a derogation, 20 to 24 million kilos of phosphate should be processed from animal manure each year and dairy farmers should feed additional fertilizer. The expiry of the derogation has an effect not only on dairy farming but on all sectors of livestock farming. If additional cattle manure is placed on the market, other types of manure may be replaced. The financial consequences are difficult to predict, but it will soon be more than EUR 100 million a year depending on the market price. The benefits depend on many factors. In general, it can be said that the derogation contributes to reducing the use of fertilizers. After all, there is additional room for the use of animal manure. This also contributes to improving soil fertility. Mr De Graaf asked how many dairy farmers apply more than 170 kilos of nitrogen per hectare. In 2014, 19,370 dairy farmers applied for derogation. Mr Reuten asked whether the Dutch derogation prompted other Member States to apply for a derogation. That is not the case. Member States decide whether to apply for a derogation. In view of the circumstances in the Member States concerned, they must themselves justify whether a request for derogation is possible within the objectives of the Nitrate Directive. This depends on national circumstances. Mr Reuten also asked whether the government intended to close the gap between the derogation and the EU standard. I don't have that intention, and I don't need it. The Netherlands has obtained the derogation on the basis of a solid scientific basis recognised by the European Commission which shows that derogation does not prevent the objectives of the Nitrate Directive from being achieved. This is in conjunction with the package of measures announced in the Fifth Nuclear Action Programme, which was agreed by the Commission. The government's aim is and will continue to be to maintain a derogation for a period beyond the current fifth action programme. As I said, in order to meet the requirements of derogation, the law must enter into force on 1 January next.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u15	I asked the more fundamental question as to whether the cabinet is in favour of a level playing field in the EU and, if so, how a derogation fits in. It seems to me that derogations lead to unequal conditions of competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u16	The situation in the various countries is uneven. From my experience in education, I certainly know as a Social Democrat that it is precisely when you treat unequal situations equally that you promote inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u17	Then, in general, you question the level playing field. I find that interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u18	I understand what Mr Reuten means, but it is not. The conditions under which you are allowed to meet the objectives of the Nitrate Directive are different. To this end, the Commission is also looking from country to country at the situation and at what is needed to meet the objectives of the Nitrate Directive. For example, the land is different and for other reasons, situations are not comparable. That is why we are looking very closely at whether the action programme will be able to comply with the Nitrates Directive. This means that the action programme we have to make can be stricter than that for other countries. In the end, each Member State must comply with the Nitrates Directive. That's where the level playing field is. Each Member State must meet the environmental standard. That's important. One could say that there is room for different ways of complying with it by means of a package of measures. Mr Holdijk asked whether the proposed AMvB for derogation should apply on 1 April 2015. That is not the case. The legislative proposal contains all the standards necessary to maintain the derogation. The European Commission, as I have already said, does not require a standard of ground-boundity. That is an important and understandable national wish, by the way. Therefore, it is not necessary for the General Measure to enter into force from 1 April 2015 in order to maintain the derogation. I will deal in detail with the question of how I see the deadlines. Mr Van Zandbrink drew attention to the fact that the Nitrate Directive promotes the use of nitrogen from fertilizers over nitrogen from animal manure. I wholeheartedly agree with him. We really need to do something about that, but unfortunately that is not easy. The Nitrates Directive provides for a maximum limit on the use of nitrogen from animal manure. Above, only the use of fertilizers is permitted. This restricts the recovery of minerals from animal manure. I am therefore strongly committed to the European Commission's efforts to broaden its scope. I have done so because of the derogation granted to the Netherlands. This makes it possible to use additional nitrogen from animal manure on about 45% of Dutch agricultural land. I also call on the European Commission to use mineral concentrate from animal manure as a fertiliser substitute. European rules make this impossible for the time being. It would be a nice job for the new Commissioner, I think. According to those rules, products identified as original animal manure should be considered permanently as animal manure. Tests, however, show that animal manure is a product with properties that are very similar to fertilizer. I will continue to work in the near future to get a mineral concentrate recognised as a fertilizer substitute. Mr Schaap asked whether it would be conceivable that the double standard of animal rights and soil binding should be abolished and said that mandatory manure treatment would be sufficient. We were just talking about it. It is my ambition to abolish animal rights as soon as that is justified. We have exchanged this with each other before. The problem of manure can in itself be solved much better by the compulsory manure processing system, in which we ensure that the manure surplus must be removed from Dutch agriculture. We haven't got that far yet. The Planning Office for the Environment found at the end of last year that there is no certainty that sufficient manure can be processed in time to reduce the manure surplus to zero. Therefore, additional safeguards are necessary for the time being. For pigs and poultry, this means a continuation of animal rights, at least during the period of the fifth action programme. The review of the Fertilisers Act in 2016 may lead to the termination of animal rights for one or both sectors. In the 2013 ex-ante evaluation, the Planning Bureau for the Environment and Wageningen concluded that 20% more milk is produced in 2020, with 9% more animals and 0% more phosphate. The economic perspective for the sector has been assessed. The growth of dairy farming is not determined by the scope of the environmental permits granted. That is also the answer to Mr Koffeman's question. The permit is granted to provinces and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u19	I have named the animal rights and ground bonding in one breath. It is clear that animal rights can be abolished or at least reduced. Does this also apply to land-boundness, in this case dairy farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u20	This also has to do with political views. I know that your views are different from those of other Members, at least from a number of other Members. The point is that we feel the need to strengthen ground-boundness at national level, including through this legislative proposal. I have always set out the line that I want to deal with this with the sector. In the end, the sector, like a large majority in the House of Representatives, has made it clear that it also wants to see this embedded in this bill. Well, that's a fact now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u21	I myself attach great importance to ground-boundness for all kinds of reasons, partly in view of the image of the sector. The answer makes it clear that groundboundness has a slightly different approach to animal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u22	Yes, there are also certain concerns about the structure of the sector. The House of Representatives and a significant part of the First Chamber attach great importance to the concept of ground-boundness. They want this to be legally anchored for the future as well. That's different with the system of animal rights. Almost everyone has found that this is not necessarily the best instrument for promoting responsible growth. Both sectors have shown in the past that this is not necessarily an instrument that works very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u23	The Secretary of State refers to the phosphate reference 2013. Is the reference based on the quantity of milk actually produced or on the 2013 quota? We all know that the quota has been substantially exceeded. It is interesting to know whether the phosphate reference relates to one or the other. The Secretary of State says you can produce more milk with fewer cattle. Then you'd meet the standards, too. How does it see this in terms of animal welfare? Cows burn faster and faster. A cow does not last more than three years, while in nature it can easily be 20 or 25 years. The increased milk production per cow raises serious animal welfare problems, such as udder inflammation. It is very common in dairy farming. Does the Secretary of State include this aspect in her considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u24	The first question is of a relatively technical nature. I shall come back to that in the second term. What does happen is that real phosphate production is taken as a starting point for the references. That production can indeed be influenced by the feed trail. What doesn't get tucked in doesn't come out either. By using the feed track, you can make a profit. For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this is a subject under discussion. I would like to say that the perception that animal welfare standards are constantly under discussion in dairy farming is not correct. This also applies to the fact that there is, of course, ordinary legislation which already applies and which guarantees animal welfare. That legislation also remains in force. I will come back to this in more detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u25	On the transport track, we have to note that this has already been implemented and that this has not led to a reduction in phosphate production but to an increase in it. So far, this has been a dead end. That could be different, but so far this is a dead end. You will come back to the technical question later, but if the 2013 phosphate level is the reference, I would very much like farmers who have gone over their quota not to be rewarded for it from the higher standard that results from the infringement. Anyway, you'll deal with that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yes. By the way, nobody is rewarded for that, because they are simply paying a superlevy. Financially, this is, of course, also a trade-off that dairy farmers make individually. So we do not reward overproduction. In the current system, overproduction is penalised.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u27	Finally, it is important to note that this reward is not so much a question of whether the farmer is getting money for it. The reward lies in the fact that the quota is stretched. So if you take a different starting point, the farmer will be rewarded in that sense. Of course, the fact that the farmer pays a superlevy has everything to do with a calculated risk. The farmer knows that milk prices are high and he thinks: milk but through and through, because that superlevy can easily be removed. That's a calculated risk. In that sense, this is a reward for bad behavior or unintentional behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u28	I think that's very big words. It is certainly a calculated risk; we agree on that, because individual dairy farmers weigh up whether the costs they incur outweigh the benefits, even if they have to pay a superlevy on the milk produced. So far, I think we are analytically in agreement, but I would like to return to your first point, your remark that the transport trail did not work. That conclusion is really far too short. Unfortunately, in the last year we have seen that the production of phosphate has not decreased. I have given a rather comprehensive explanation for this by identifying the factors that affected it. However, it is also a fact that in recent years dairy farming has also shown that the feed trail is indeed having an effect. You disagree. That was a political point: you do not think it is wise to do so. However, it has worked, at least as far as the reduction of phosphate production is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u29	I'd like to back the Secretary of State. Mr Koffeman does present a very negative picture of the livestock sector in relation to the failure of the transport track. At the time, the This has led to a huge reduction in the addition of phosphates to animal feed. There are many more such technological interventions possible. There can therefore be a much more positive picture of the animal feed sector than the picture presented by Mr Koffeman here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr De Graaf asked how many farmers could not place any of the enlargement on their own land. The recent review by the LEI states that 15% of the number of dairy farmers is affected by an increase in phosphate production compared to the phosphate reference in 2013. This means that the other companies do not grow either that they still have sufficient ground to justify growth or that they can prevent phosphate production from exceeding the reference value by means of feed measures. Mr Koffeman asked where we left all the manure produced in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, the standard of use determines how much manure may be used within Dutch agriculture. With the compulsory manure treatment system, we send out that this must be done responsibly and that the surplus is removed from Dutch agriculture. In my words, therefore, it will not happen soon that you are literally standing in the manure, as Mr Koffeman suggested in his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u31	"To stand in the manure" was an analogy where it was assumed that the manure would be run out here in The Hague. That's not what's being done. That is why we can talk about it here in The Hague with a great deal of non-committalism, but an LTO foreman has indeed said that he assumes that up to 40% of the manure is being disposed of in his region, as you know. So that's being run out illegally, injected and exported. That is why Germany no longer wants manure from the Netherlands and why Belgium acts against manure from the Netherlands. You can't ignore that. So you cannot say that there is very close monitoring of how this manure is processed. I would like to know how you monitor that very closely. What control is there so that next year LTO can no longer say that up to 40% of the manure is being processed fraudulently?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u32	Firstly, it is not easy for us to talk about this subject here. That's just not right. I have been standing here twice, just before Christmas, talking the blisters on my tongue to defend some very complicated legislative proposals which we are trying to limit the problem, in your Chamber. In addition, I note that Mr Koffeman and the undersigned have been discussing fraud for some time in this Chamber. I have also indicated that this fraud is totally unacceptable. Mr Koffeman also knows that we are currently taking all kinds of action with GPS on manure cars, with the adjustment of the accounts and with talks with German Länder bordering on our country and with Belgium to ensure that we get much better control over what is going on, whether legally or not, across the border. So I take this whole point very seriously. I cannot support these figures. When manure fraud happens, I think you should just make sure it's dealt with. For this reason, too, we have made additional funds available for the NVWA to better control. Mr Koffeman is, of course, right in saying that with that kind of behaviour, all farmers who do well are severely disadvantaged. We are in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u33	I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that the NVWA is going to monitor this more closely. I really wish that next year LTO would have no more reason to say that its own supporters are committing up to 40% fraud. There is therefore a need to intervene in this regard. I'm glad the Secretary of State wants to do that. For the fact that she is here right before Christmas defending a complicated bill, she really has to put her own heart in it, because that is not up to us. She got here pretty late. Let's just say we've come a long way towards her by doing this before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u34	Normally: I don't want to change that at all, but that was not the point of my comment. On the contrary, I wanted to show that we are now working on various legislative proposals to ensure that this growth is justified and that this is done, in particular, from an environmental point of view. You can say that doesn't go far enough for you, but something will happen. That's what I wanted to say. Mr Reuten asked whether mesogrowth, i.e. growth of the sector, was a premise and, if so, how it was argued. He also asked whether, given the size of the Netherlands, "responsible" could also mean stopping the growth of dairy farming or reducing dairy farming. He wants to know to what extent I consider it justified to adjust production in the long term to local or at least domestic consumption. Growth in the sector is not a premiss, because any growth in dairy farming must take place within environmental limits. That's the premise. Environmental boundary conditions thus also determine the limit of growth. There are, of course, a number of other factors which also play a role and which are not always predictable. Think of market conditions. The price of milk will undoubtedly have an impact on what growth looks like. Also think about spatial planning, availability of land, which is scarce in the Netherlands, and the availability of roughage. As I indicated in the written reply, measuring the size of dairy farming in terms of domestic consumption ignores the globalisation of food production and the specific conditions associated with this production. I agree with the not only humorous but also wise words Mr Terpstra has said about this. Mr Van Beek asked about the policy aimed at the survival of small family farms in dairy farming. Family businesses have been central to the development of Dutch agriculture. As far as I am concerned, they remain at the heart of this. Following Mr Van Beek's question, I note that the bill even contains a specific provision in favour of the family business, in that, unlike in general terms, phosphate references are transferable to family members up to the third degree. Mr Terpstra asked me to comment on the prima facie contradictory development of responsible growth on the one hand, and on the other hand, falling milk prices and the slaughter of dairy cows as a result. Milk prices are falling. In November 2014, most dairy plants paid a milk price of around €0.34 per kilogram. In December 2014, the milk price will continue to fall. A possible further decline in the coming months can therefore not be ruled out. Nevertheless, a milk price is expected throughout 2014 which is barely lower than the approximately €0.39 per kilogram for 2013. The poor outlook for the milk price in the coming months, combined with about 4% over-milk production compared to the milk quota, makes many farmers decide to repel dairy cattle so as not to increase the excess production. Mr Koffeman asked how this production restriction by slaughter fits into the cabinet vision on sustainable livestock farming. The size of the Dutch livestock is almost stable throughout the year. I am not aware of any situations in which dairy farmers reject cows, which would reduce the dairy herd below the usual size. However, we have seen that Mr Koffeman referred, in my opinion, to the fact that a lot of extra animals have recently been removed in one week. I must say that this does not necessarily contribute to increasing social support for the dairy sector. In this connection, Mr Koffeman asked about the relationship with animal rights. The additional rejection of dairy cows is due to excessive milk production in the last quota year. In view of the falling milk price, dairy farmers choose to reject cows in order to avoid a super levy more than three months before the end of the quota year. However, falling milk prices may also be considered under an animal rights system. So this could also be the case in that system. In fact, this has nothing to do with the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u35	The Secretary of State states that it does not benefit the support base if a falling milk price leads to the slaughter of animals. However, it recently announced its intention not to allow circus animals to enter the circus because these animals have intrinsic value and because they are not there for people's entertainment. Are dairy cows really only there for the farmer's return? Does she think that when the milk price drops, the farmer has the right to say: now 50% more cows go to slaughter this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u36	Firstly, I do not think that these examples are comparable. We will undoubtedly be discussing this later, but this has to do with the fact that there is a difference between wild animals and production or agricultural animals. For the latter category, too, animal welfare is an issue. This means that the cabinet's proposals are increasingly seeking to increase animal welfare in all sectors, as you know. For example, we are trying to phase out and reduce interventions on farm animals. So yes, I think animal welfare is very important in any situation, but we already have a very high level of animal welfare in these sectors, especially in comparison with some other countries; that may also be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u37	I do indeed think that we should discuss the issue of intrinsic value at a later stage. The fact that the Secretary of State says that wild animals are not comparable to farm animals is a little ignorant of the intrinsic value. That intrinsic value is precisely the value of an animal within itself without its usefulness to man. This debate does not lend itself to that, but we will really have to talk about that again. In that sense you cannot adhere to the theorem: all animals are equal, but one is more equal than the other. This is not how it works in terms of the legislation that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u38	I certainly don't want to say that either. The intrinsic value is anchored in the Animal Law. That's what I'm attached to. It is precisely on this basis that we have also come forward with a whole set of proposals for increasing animal welfare for intensive livestock farming over the last two years. In that respect, I think we are on the same page. Because the situations in practice are really different, I find it difficult to compare them one-on-one, but by that I do not mean to say that animals in livestock farming would have no intrinsic value, certainly not even. Mr. Thissen asks how the new Environmental Law regulates megasthals. Provinces and municipalities can impose restrictions on the size of stables on the basis of the Regional Planning Act and later on the new Environment Act, which, as it were, is failing. In addition, there is a specific provision which I am now preparing. This concerns an amendment to the Animal Law on the relationship between animal numbers and public health. That bill will be submitted to this Chamber at a later date. Mr Koffeman has asked why we are subsidising a sector that can stop its own pants and, in his words, causes a lot of problems. It is good to note that it is precisely the existing subsidies that contribute to facilitating the further sustainability of the sector. The new common agricultural policy is no longer subject to production subsidies for the dairy sector. Within the common agricultural policy, however, there is a programme aimed at promoting agricultural products. It focuses on health aspects. I would also point out this in connection with Mr Koffeman's comments on what the World Health Organization has said about subsidising milk, cheese and butter from the CAP. Mr Koffeman asked why we would facilitate a system that, according to the WHO and the UN, would be a disaster for nature, the environment, animals and public health. I do not support this statement. The Dutch dairy farming scores in terms of CO footprint very favorably compared to abroad. The sector also has a leading position in the field of animal welfare. I just said it, too. This legislative proposal does not deal with all the issues, after all, we have found that this has already been secured elsewhere in the law, but is aimed at an environmental and responsible development of dairy farming. This also complies with European regulations. Mr Koffeman spoke about animal welfare. It is certainly not the case that this bill offers a licence in the field of animal welfare, because the Animal Law remains in place. He's what he is. In doing so, the present bill does not change anything at all. I'm getting to the point of the ground. Several members have asked what land is included in the dairy farm, when there is decision-making power and how to deal with short-term leases. The Fertilisers Act already defines an agricultural area belonging to the holding, namely "agricultural land, which is in use as part of normal farm operations'. The draft law before us does not change that. The important criterion for determining whether land is in use in the normal course of business of the holding is that the person holding the farm must be able to exercise the actual control over the land. This means that there must be a valid legal title, i.e. ownership, rent, lease or land use declaration, and that a farmer must in practice be able to align and implement the cultivation and fertilisation plans in a coherent manner. Within the framework of the system of usage standards, economic operators shall specify, by 15 May at the latest, at the time of the combined collection of data, which parcels they are in use. This date determines which economic operator must account for compliance with usage standards for the parcels in question. Since entrepreneurs once again account for their production above the fostate reference every year, it is not a problem that parcels with a short-term legal title are included here too. This also applies to short-term leases, I say to Mr Schaap. The measuring date ensures that only one entrepreneur can apply fertilization on a parcel. For implementation and enforcement, the reference date shall be determined for those who are likely to comply with the use standards. This means that, for example, if a farmer puts a parcel into use on 1 November, this parcel will no longer have a room for use. This will prevent one parcel from being fertilized by two farmers. If we were to take this wider and not so strictly maintain a reference date, the risk of double land use would be lurking. This would create a leak in the binding of responsible manure use to agricultural land. No distinction is made by region or type of dairy farm, I say specifically to Mr Holdijk, but differences in the degree of soil density can be taken into account in the implementation of the General Measure of Management. Regionalisation is also rewarded under the Fertilisers Act in the form of an exemption from the processing obligation for regional marketing. Mr Thissen asks how I think I can deal with the disturbed cycles and possible problems...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u39	Just for the sake of precision, we'll agree on that date. There should be no confusion or double counting, but what exactly does the Secretary of State mean by a legal title, so also a short-term legal title?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u40	By which I mean that you have the actual authority over the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u41	Is that, for example, a note in which a farmer writes to a farmer: in this case we have reached an agreement on grass uprising, which means that you commit yourself to fertilising my parcel with organic or animal manure?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u42	No, not like that. It really is all the examples I have just mentioned. I'll repeat them: property, rent, lease and land use statement. Those are the options. The Chamber has asked how to promote the regional cycle. Mr Van Zandbrink said that you should also include arable crops. I understand that very well. The regional cycle is actually already rewarded by the Fertilisers Act. It states that an individual farmer, especially dairy farmers, can dispose of 75% of the manure on his own land, which can store other 25% in a 20 km radius without having to "do" it, in order to say flat. That is, as it were, excluded from the processing obligation. That remains with this bill. What we cannot do is let that same patch of land be used by more farmers as being their land. Then you'd be organizing three rental fees on the same apartment. You'll get that famous leak in the law. Especially for those of you who think that groundboundness is important, this has to be a point you don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u43	If a dairy farmer has an agreement with a farmer in his surroundings, where they are, as it were, dependent on each other and where the farmer grows grass on a part of his land which is made available to the farmer and for which manure is returned, then I think that the definition of land-basedness is also fulfilled. How are you supposed to capture this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u44	That depends on whether you have the actual authority over that land. In the worst case scenario, such a farmer with perhaps a lot of livestock farmers has the same agreement. It can and may take its manure from anywhere, but that land cannot be counted with another farmer every time as being its own land. In that we have to be very precise because otherwise you will get the phenomenon I just mentioned, namely three times rent allowance on one apartment. We really shouldn't want that. Mr Thissen asks how I intend to deal with the disturbed cycles and possible problems with the export of manure. In particular, he mentioned the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The demand for organic manure from the Netherlands is still growing in the surrounding countries. Using manure treatment, the marketing area can be expanded and the Netherlands can serve areas where there is a strong need for organic fertilisers to improve, for example, soil fertility of poor soils. This year I have had frequent contact with the German state, but also with the Federal Ministry, on the export of Dutch manure. That is what I said to Mr Koffeman. We have agreed on the exchange of data to properly monitor the transport of manure to and from Germany. It also ensures that the manure is disposed of in a responsible manner. Many members have addressed the issue of ground-boundity. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and I will state in a General Measure of Management that at least part of the growth in dairy farming should be land-based. We limit the ability to justify growth only with manure treatment. In this way, the desire to preserve and strengthen the land-based nature of dairy farming for the future is also guaranteed by regulation. From the Fertilisers Act, as we have just established, ground bonding is not in itself a requirement. Allowing growth only through land-basedness would indeed put a strong brake on the development of dairy farming. Mr De Graaf also spoke about this. That is also my response to Mr Koffeman's question on the opinion of Mr Veerman and Mr Wijffels. By the way, they have not spoken out for full ground-based growth, if I have read the article correctly. They agreed to the sector proposal. Moreover, this sector proposal affects up to 3% of all dairy farmers. All 97% or more of dairy farmers are excluded from this sector proposal because they wanted to control only the largest, most intensive farms and the largest growers. I say to Mr De Graaf that the aim of the Fertilisers Act, namely to improve the quality of surface and ground water, can be achieved in practice or in theory also if growth is compensated by only manure processing. For environmental reasons, therefore, this has always been the subject of discussion, so ground-boundness is not a pre-requisite, but from a social point of view it is. There is no doubt about this in the cabinet either from the outset. At the start of drafting this bill, when we outlined the outlines a year ago, we stressed the importance of land-basedness for the future of dairy farming. The sector wants to promote land-based development, society wants to, and so does the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u45	I wonder why the Secretary of State is addressing me about this. "Against Mr De Graaf I say," she says. Did I say anything else? Did I say that the manure treatment option cannot be justified from an environmental point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u46	No, maybe I made a mistake and I was talking to someone else. I want to get rid of that, but my impression was that you said something about it in your term. If that is not the case, it is noted here. Then I'll tell anyone who wants to hear it. On the basis of the consultation with the Lower House and the sector, we have distinguished three main directions for an AMvB. The LEI has carried out an exploration on the effects. Your room received that report, as did I, last Thursday. I would like to discuss with interested parties in the short term the further development and concrete implementation of the General Measure of Governance. I say to Mr Thissen that I really need that consultation before I can make a choice. In the explanatory notes on the General Measure of Management, I will of course support the choice of a particular direction. Mr Van Beek asked for that. He said not only choose, but also show why you choose and what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u47	What is the effective timetable in the eyes of the Secretary of State? Then what's possible? What date could that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u48	I will come back to this in more detail, including the question of how it works. This is a very difficult procedure. I'm trying to get it out of the Chamber by March 1st. I will say something about the deadlines in a moment. Several questions have been asked about this. We will do our best to put it before the Chamber before 1 March. Mr Van Zandbrink asks whether I can confirm that it is not possible to grow groundless as long as the AMvB has been established. The system of the legislative proposal is such that it is allowed for a dairy farm to produce with dairy manure above the 2013 phosphate reference if it has sufficient soil or the surplus on the phosphate reference. Each year the actual phosphate production is compared with the phosphate reference and, if necessary, justified by these measures. As has been said, we are going to draw up an AMvB in the very short term, in which it is ensured that growth in dairy farming must be at least partly linked to land. That would be the opposite of saying that for farmers who do not have enough land, it is certain that they will be able to grow in this way. Other farmers will, of course, want to verify the content of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u49	Do I fully understand the Secretary of State that the dairy farmers who have sufficient phosphate space within their farm when adopting the law have clarity about their future? Is it true that dairy farmers who do not have sufficient space on their own farm do not have that security, because further conditions are laid down in the context of the AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u51	If these detailed conditions are not set on 1 April, do those dairy farmers not have any certainty as to the conditions under which the extension under the Fertilisers Act is allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u52	You got that right. They don't have that certainty. They can grow, but they run the risk that they do not meet the conditions in the AMvB, which require a restriction. That is why, as has also been pointed out by various groups, it is important to provide rapid clarity to dairy farmers. I share that wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u53	For the sake of clarity, the background to my question is not to postpone that AMvB. I just want that sharp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u54	In the letter of 12 December 2014, I indicated that I would like to avoid as many problems as possible when completing the AMvB. That's my ambition. In that letter, I indicated that I am thinking in any case of entrepreneurs who are in trouble, because they were fully committed to manure treatment before they could know that this possibility would be restricted and that financial commitments have already been made to this end. Those are the entrepreneurs who are doing very responsibly and not those who keep thinking: it will take my time. That's a small group, but it's a group that really wants to get ahead and do its best to have things done. I think that we should bear that in mind, I say to Mr Van Zandbrink. We will settle this, I say to Mr Schaap, neatly. I do not want to anticipate further the implementation of this problem provision, which will be included in the AMvB. I agree with Mr Van Zandbrink that compensation is only to be dealt with when existing rights are affected and that it would affect someone specifically, abnormally or disproportionately compared to others. Moreover, the fact that there is no question of compensation does not mean that the AMvB cannot take into account groups which consider it undesirable to be affected by the new standards. It is therefore not the case that entrepreneurs who have anticipated the arrival of manure treatment will automatically be favoured over those who have not done so. These entrepreneurs too will soon have to comply with ground-based standards. Mr Holdijk says that the AMvB implies that in the event of infringements, measures can be taken subsequently by a company. That is by definition the case of infringements. As regards the Fertilisers Act, it is generally true that justification is given for a calendar year, i.e. actually after the end of the calendar year. I have just said something about the deadline for sending the AMvB to the Chamber. As soon as possible, Mr. Schaap asked. I intend to put these before both Chambers before 1 March. I can only implement what is laid down in the AMvB when the General Measure of Governance has also come into force or is actually in force, and that is an option that I do not choose, I say to Mr Reuten....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to say to Mr Van Beek that I would like to inform both this House and the House of Representatives about the progress of the process in order to achieve an AMvB and, if necessary, how things are going in practice. We can also agree that, in the review of the Fertilisers Act in 2016, we will specifically expand on this point. I'd like to give that to the Chamber. Mr Reuten asked whether it would be better to incorporate the ground-based standard into an amending law. I don't choose that. Because a heavy front has already been fitted, this Chamber may do so. That's the possibility the Chamber has. But with that, and that is why I do not choose to do so, there would still be a lot of uncertainty for the dairy sector about what the precise content of the soil density is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u55	I didn't suggest that that AMvB shouldn't be there. I understand that haste is important for the sector. My idea is that there will be an amending law once the AMvB is there, whereby the substantive content of the AMvB becomes part of the law, because it is an essential part of the intention of the law. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u56	Yes, I understand. Because the House of Representatives has chosen the option of the heavy front, that is also possible. Once again, I do not choose it, but if your Chamber wanted it in majority, it will. That is the outcome of the procedure of a heavy front. There is that possibility. But even though you would choose to convert the AMvB one-on-one, that never gives 100% certainty. After all, anything can happen which ultimately means that the Chamber wants to make changes to the legislative proposal, and that is perfectly right and normal. Of course, in the AMvB there is something about ground boundness, but there are also numbers in it. Should the situation arise that changes are needed in numbers, for example because things are not going well, it is much easier to change in an AMvB than in legislation. Then we need another whole new bill. So that's a trade-off the Chamber has to make. My choice would be not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u57	I understand what the Secretary of State means by heavy veils, but it is also a matter of principle that something essential to a law is regulated in the law itself. Then it's mostly about the significance of ground-boundity. Another thing is that you could still have an AMvB with heavy fronts over the specific numbers. But that's two other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes, but also in the legislative proposal as it stands, the ground bonding is the starting point, the possibility for manure processing. What we actually regulate in the AMvB is how these two things can relate to each other in the future, whereby the House of Representatives has in fact, materially, closed the route of exclusively manure processing as a growth option.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr Reuten, a minute comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yeah, it's a mini-comment. In my view, it is mentioned, but if I remember correctly, it does not say exactly what the legal meaning of that groundboundness is. Do we agree on that, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u61	Yeah, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u62	I have a question for clarification. The suspension procedure makes it possible for both chambers to say: stop, there has to be a law. If we waited for that, valuable time would be wasted. The suggestion made by Mr Reuten is to allow the AMvB to enter into force, an important element of that AMvB when it comes to preparing the normative at the same time in an amending law, so that, quite shortly after the AMvB has entered into force, an amending law is before us. Then we do not have to wait for the procedure provided for in the current law, namely a pending procedure, then object and so on. Then the Secretary of State can get to work sooner. The question is whether the Secretary of State wishes to make that commitment, so that this Chamber does not have to be in a position to make statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u63	It seems fair to me to be clear about that. I don't want to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u64	That's obvious. Then we need a second term, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u65	I understand that. This is absolutely an appropriate point. I do not think that the fundamentality as such and the fact that we want to strengthen it is at issue. The question is which system we choose for and how we then work out that system. The main thrust of the bill as it is now before us is to strengthen ground-boundness in any case. In fact, Mr De Graaf may not want to extra anchor the precise numbers that belong to the system in the legislative proposal but rather the system. I understand that he wants to do so, but I also think it is important to provide clarity and flexibility quickly now. It may be that the Chamber will eventually make a different choice. Of course, the number is connected to the system, but it is quite possible that the Chamber wants to embed it completely in the law by means of the heavy veil. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u66	How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u67	I am on my last point. Not the least point, but the last: the meadow corridor. Mr Schaap asked me to decouple grazing from manure policy and leave its regulation entirely to private initiatives. Cows in pasture are of great importance for the social acceptance of dairy farming. Fortunately, this is also recognised by all parties. The dairy chain also has important tools in its hands to stimulate grazing. For example, FrieslandCampina increases the storage of pasture milk on 1 January. I agree with Mr Schaap that the sector should take the lead in promoting grazing, but that does not mean that I do not intend to do anything. I do believe that the sector should be ambitious. I will discuss the possibilities for this in the context of the announced action-oriented approach. In this action-oriented approach, we will make far-reaching agreements on concrete steps that the various social parties, government and business, will take in the dairy chain to ensure that the Covenant Weidegang objective is achieved and its level of ambition is raised. That's something other than recording in the AMvB. I won't. So I'm gonna choose to do some social-tracking. I have promised the House of Representatives to show what the different consequences of slowly increasing the percentage of pasture are.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u68	Let's have a very brief reaction to this. I am very pleased with this. We, as legislators, also need to know where to stop legislation and have confidence in the private forces in the sector in order to achieve this social objective. Of course, I agree with the fact that the Secretary of State wishes to discuss this as a party. But that's different from being a legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yeah, but I'm gonna be loud and clear. I don't make a secret of that either. So that's what everyone knows. I have read somewhere that we are seen as one of the 62 covenant parties. I would like to say here that we are not the least of the covenant parties. You don't usually have to say that about yourself, but at a time like this, you have to say that. The final point, Mr President. Then my first term is over. Mr Schaap asked me how I felt about forcing livestock farmers to provide sufficient shaded shelter for their animals. Mr Schaap rightly pointed out that the Animal Law, and not the Fertilisers Act, is the basis for the obligation to provide sufficient shelter for animals. The Animal Act obliges entrepreneurs to protect animals from adverse weather conditions and from the risk of health risks. It is up to entrepreneurs themselves to implement and implement this, depending on the circumstances on the ground. This brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Terpstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u71	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u72	Sorry, Mr. Terpstra. I hear there's a request for a short suspension. Do you object to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u73	Actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u74	Well, a very short suspension. I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u75	I note that we have now reached the second term of office. I will give the floor to you once more, Mr Terpstra. You were standing there before the suspension, and you were so kind as to agree to the suspension. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for giving me the floor for the second time in the second term of the examination of the law on responsible growth in dairy farming. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all the answers given. I would also like to offer my sincere apologies if the follow-up would show that I did not understand a reply from time to time. I was distracted every three minutes by sharp lawyers on a legal issue on issues that should or should not be covered by the law or in the AMvB. If I have therefore missed one of the answers, then I apologize sincerely. Yesterday I found the highlight of Mr Holdijk's return to the debate. I regret, of course, that he has become ill. I wish him well on behalf of our group and I think on behalf of everyone. In general, I agree with the Secretary of State's view on the role of our dairy sector in this world. This applies both to food supply and to the contribution to a better environment and animal welfare, and so on. I also welcome the statement made by the Secretary of State on the role of employment. This sector also contributes to employment. That is also an element that the CDA wants to consider. From the answer we have understood that with the feed track and with the manure processing, including the export, not everything is going perfectly, but that the Secretary of State is following developments closely and driving the sector in the right direction. We wish the Secretary of State success. The answer that we should have had to rushed with the derogation in Brussels has convinced us. We believe that the position we had is even more correct than it already was. On one hand, I agree that almost for smaller groups there is a greater problem than for larger groups. Only, in my opinion, a one-man group saves a great deal of time in the context of a group meeting. I would also like to say that from the number and depth of the interruptions of some one-man groups you do not notice at all that there has been a problem. I would like to offer this consolation for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u77	I wish the CDA Group a slightly smaller size in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u78	I was afraid I'd provoke such a thing. I once pointed out at a conference of SME entrepreneurs that we are becoming more and more like an SME, but we hope to grow again. With regard to the substance of the matter, we agree with the principle that it would be a good thing, and also that the Secretary of State, in consultation with the sector and, in particular, the House of Representatives, should continue to develop it. In that area I had another question about system 2. In this respect, the sector is actually declining in the context of a contribution to this law, which is based on responsible growth. As far as I can recall, the Secretary of State has not answered the question as to why there is also a systematic approach to responsible growth, with the sector falling behind in all areas. I fully agree with the answer given by the Secretary of State to Mr Schaap in relation to grazing and the necessary shade in rural areas, that the sector itself should take care of this in consultation. I am a little hesitant about the large-scale urbanization of the countryside.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Terpstra. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and also for some reassurances, particularly with regard to grazing. The legislator is powerful, but we also have a private domain in society. The fact that the Secretary of State is going to mingle as a private party about what is good for landscape and image is fine, as far as I am concerned, even loudly, but with the promise that it stays outside the law. It has also become clear to me that "groundboundness" has a slightly different meaning than "animal rights." The threat from Brussels to animal rights remains above the market, even if we adopt this law. At least we are talking about more. It is also a structural measure for rural areas, at least for this part of rural areas. I welcome the whole principle of ground-boundity. I have made a complaint about all those rules that happen to livestock farming and said that it should not be too much and certainly not too variable. That also has to do with a structure background. We must be able to invest. We must, however, bear in mind, also as regards the image objective, that land-boundness will not stop the scale increase in the dairy sector. This also applies to agriculture as a whole. Companies shall be merged upon termination. Quite a few farmers who don't have a successor end their business. That just means someone other than the place is taking over. So it's being built again. That all goes in the direction of a much larger scale. There are reasons why I welcome this, namely that investment in agriculture is often linked to scaling-up and that a lot of noble objectives can be taken into account, legally mandatory but also simply private. That is going to happen and it is completely separate from the discussion about mega-stables or whatever. There remains one point, namely the main objective of this law, namely the question of land and, in line with that, the significance of land ownership.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr Schaap says that scaling-up in dairy farming is inevitable and, as far as he is concerned, to be welcomed. Can he also indicate what consequences that will have for the grazing? Mr Schaap said yesterday that the old-fashioned pot stall was not so good. I think he confused it with the gravel.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u82	No, I remember enough about the pot stall and the crooked legs from the books when I was in agricultural training.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u83	So it wasn't the grupstal you had a problem with, it was the pot stall.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u84	I'm also in big trouble with the grupstal. I'm glad it's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u85	I would like to know what consequences your vision of dairy farming has for grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u86	It is more difficult in large numbers of cows to use grazing. That's right, so a sleeve will have to be fitted. I believe that the sector should become inventive in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u87	Can you give me a bit of a picture of how that grazing should take place? If you have a cow community with hundreds of cows, how the hell can you leave those cows in the pasture if you don't have any surrounding pastures?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u88	I told you, that could be a problem. That's also a reason why I don't want that grazing going on in the law, because then all kinds of frictions come into play from that law. I prefer freedom of movement, in this case also for the dairy farmer in the private sphere. I also took up the question of land availability and land ownership in my first term. Property is convenient, because then you know right away, just like long leases. In the case of short-term leases, it becomes more difficult, because then there is short-term decision-making power. There are also many other kinds of agreements, particularly in the circular sphere. The same applies to dairy farmers who are among farmers. I would like that to be given legal scope as well. This can be done, for example, by means of manure placement agreements or otherwise, clearly regulated and with data. I would like this flexibility to be maintained and also covered by the title of land. It would be worth something to me that the further implementation of the definition of land, land ownership and land ownership is regulated in the law and not in an AMvB. The law is there to make things legally clear. Measurements and weights are then included in the AMvB. So I really hope that the Secretary of State will undertake to settle this matter further and that, as of 1 March, if the AMvB comes heavily before us, it will also link it to an amendment of this law, which will deal with the whole question of the legal basis of the power of disposal on land.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State for the detailed answer, she also addressed a number of questions raised by members of the PvdA Group. The great effect on the size of work for many people is an important point for the Labour Party, as is the underlining of Brundtland's principles. We are indeed looking forward to it, as well as the clarity offered by the Secretary of State for the law to work without AMvB when it is adopted. The ground-based expansion is possible from that moment on. For the groundless expansion comes the AMvB. Two more points. In my first contribution, I have already said that I think it is a very good thing that the sector is picking up a lot of things here. The grazing has just been underlined by Mr Schaap. I would just like to go into the footprint, because that is not without meaning. If the feed trail is not reached, there is a risk that the phosphate ceiling will be exceeded. This is not only bad because of Brussels, but it also affects us. It makes the water bad, and it also affects farmers, because Brussels will then withdraw the derogation. What if the feed trail derails? The Secretary of State says that it will then take appropriate action in consultation with the sector. Our question is and remains what the stick behind the door is, so that it can be adjusted in time. It is in the interests of both the environment and the sector that you adjust in time. The second point is indeed about ground boundness. As far as the PvdA is concerned, not all details need to be included in the AMvB. Flexibility, especially in time, but also in the region and with an experimental clause etc., is a matter for an AMvB. When it comes to ground bonding...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u90	I'm asking for clarification. I think you should correct yourself for a moment, because you mentioned that not all the details should be included in the General Measure. I think you meant the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you for this correction. That's what I meant. I'm glad I'm being listened to so well! The Secretary of State has indicated that this is very important. That's what she worked out here. It is important for the environment, not only for nitrate but also for other aspects, for animal health, for the landscape, for the image, for the economy of the sector, and thus for the economy of the sector. In other words, that groundboundness contributes to much more than what is currently stated in the objectives of the law. The Secretary of State acknowledged that, too. I still have the question of what that means for the content of the law. Should this be added as an objective or can an explanation of the law on this part be sufficient? That's a question I'd like to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. I will also be quite short in my second term. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive response to the input of all Members and, of course, for the answers to our group's questions. In addition to the content of this legislative proposal, I would like to mention one point, namely that the Secretary of State appears to have nodded knees as soon as there is a demand or a European Commission rule in its field. In its second term, the Commission itself states that Brussels is becoming increasingly strict and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to deviate from the rules laid down. I assume the Secretary of State is aware that countries such as France and Italy have been breaching contractual obligations, such as the rules on the Stability and Growth Pact, for years without any financial consequence or exception on the part of the EU. I feel a little bit that the Secretary of State in this Chamber, in the course of the proceedings surrounding this bill, is sacrificing the due diligence that we consider necessary in our own legislative process for the demands of Brussels because it seems to be saying yes and amen to everything that the Commission says or demands. This should give this Chamber some thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I expressed some strong words about the procedure followed in this legislative proposal. I have no choice but to accept this procedure, but it is my custom when that is done to bury the hatchet and be constructively critical. In view of the time and the agenda, I have not been too hard on the Secretary of State about answering the questions. However, I would like to stress once again that sound written response not only relieves the ruler in the debate but, above all, increases the quality of the debate. I would ask the Secretary of State if she agrees and if she will undertake to answer questions thoroughly in future. Then I have two more substantive points, firstly the grazing of 4.1 or 4.2 million cattle in 2014. We are talking in particular about the grazing of dairy cows. It is, of course, a side issue with regard to this bill, but I would still like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on the grazing of the so-called beef cattle. According to Alterra Wageningen, 37% of cows will never get out by 2020 by abolishing the milk quota. This underpins Alterra in such a way that 60% of farms with more than 250 dairy cows are now permanently stable and that, as a result of the increase in the milk quota, that number is expected to double. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this. There has already been a change of ground, including in the case of interruption and by the other spokesmen. We would all like to hear later whether the Secretary of State wishes to make a commitment on this point. In advance, I shall table the next motion. Mr Reuten, Mr Thom de Graaf, Mr Schaap, Mr Terpstra, Mr Koffeman and Mr Thissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the content of the proposed General Administrative Measure on land-relatedness is essential for the legislative proposal;]] [[considers that land-basedness and its significance should be part of the law;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare, if the bill is accepted, at the same time as the draft General Measure on Governance, an amending law incorporating into the law the essence of the General Measure on Governance and the meaning of ground-boundness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying, but I still find it a bit of a curious debate. This is partly in the content and the intention it has formulated behind this law. One of the objectives of the Secretary of State is that nine billion people worldwide will have to be fed. That is one of the reasons why dairy farming in our country must also grow. In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the problem in this world is not so much the quantity of food as the problem of its distribution and, above all, the fact that so much good food is used to produce millions of kilos of meat. In other words, if the Secretary of State and the Cabinet are truly committed to sustainability, the aim of this law should be to ensure that, at least in the Netherlands, we start with a wink at the campaign slogan of the Inter-Church Peace Council at some point, that we strive for a much better ecological balance, including in the food industry. The Secretary of State must encourage and encourage us to change consumption patterns with our 17 million citizens in this country, where meat is simply no longer needed every day. We really do not need to feed so many farm animals in this country, I mean 123 million, every day. This leads to disruption of the balance, to an incredible amount of manure production and also to dubious behaviour in the processing of that manure. That has been said many times, Mr Koffeman has referred to it. I think the Secretary of State is a little too easy to ignore. I would like a somewhat tighter cabinet, including on this point. With regard to Lima's climate agreements, I asked not so much whether this is in it. The Secretary of State said that this will soon come to a follow-up summit in Paris, but what matters is whether it also takes into account in its ambitions for food production the fact that it has serious consequences for the CO targets to be achieved, in any climate agreement. It is also a question of whether the Secretary of State puts the emphasis on maintaining, increasing, increasing and increasing the employment, turnover and profits of the dairy industry or in pursuing the sustainability objectives and the ecological balance, which is so incredibly important for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I already asked the Secretary of State in the event of interruption about the phosphate ceiling per hectare. According to my group, that should be 50 kilos per hectare. I hear the Secretary of State mention numbers all the time that cause me serious concern. I quote my good neighbour, Gerrit Holdijk, who unfortunately is no longer present in this debate because of illness. He argued that farmers should have their cattle fed differently. "Otherwise we go into the phosphates" were his words, and: "If we don't arrange it ourselves, then it has to be settled with clear standards from the government." I think the Secretary of State's answer to that is a little too cautious. I also learn wonderful words in this debate. Yesterday, in my maiden speech, I said 'green' for a group leader from GroenLinks! That I had also been seriously in doubt in my bed. But with the word 'animal rights' I have a different interpretation than the one mentioned here. Animal rights here are about the number of animals. I would argue that animal rights should be formulated and defined in a different way, more in the same direction as Mr Koffeman did. This concerns the intrinsic value of the animal and animal welfare. Why is growth so badly needed? I think that's the most fundamental question. Then perhaps another wink at the terms of the Secretary of State. Her word "transport trail" is sometimes mystifying. In my opinion, 'elimination of livestock' is slaughter and, in my opinion, 'emissions from dairy cows'. Is a "production animal" a less animal than a circus animal, which is there for entertainment? I'd like some clarity in those mystifications anyway. The secretary of state was still talking about the mega-stables. Does it now take them procedurally into account in the Environmental Act or also qualitatively and quantitatively, in the light of the objectives of sustainability and so on? The Secretary of State has said that she is coming with a veil-AMvB before 1 March. In itself, we believe that this is a good commitment, which we had also asked for in the first term. Why can it not now at the same time commit itself to proposing an amendment of the law in parallel, because this law is so lacking in substance? I think we have said here: we have been persuaded that this bill should soon be dealt with here under the Christmas tree in the First Chamber, but it is so disgustingly little of its content. So if the Secretary of State now undertakes to prepare the content points that we all consider important here, also in the context of the legislative amendment, because it belongs in it and not in an AMvB, she may be able to count on a little more adhesion. Finally, we are happy to table a motion on the meadows, which we have typed out neatly. Mr Thissen, Mr De Boer, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Strike and Mr Reuten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government expresses its ambition that the Netherlands should maintain and strengthen its position as producer and exporter of high-quality dairy products in a global food production chain;]] [[Whereas this ambition should not be at the expense of the viability of Dutch people and their health should not be unnecessarily endangered by intensive dairy farming;]] [[Whereas this ambition should not be at the expense of the welfare of grazing livestock and a healthy dairy farming sector in the long term;]] [[calls on the Government to make grazing mandatory in the Responsible Growth Act dairy farming, based on the free flow of dairy cows, in so far as this is really possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u95	I wouldn't count on it too much. The motion says 200 days a year, eight hours a day? Then I would like to establish a relationship with the intrinsic value of the animal you applauded, because that means that the dairy farmer is also obliged to hunt the cows out on very hot days, while those animals shout out: "Watch my intrinsic value, I don't want to go out at all, it's way too hot." But those 200 days are legally established, so that farmer can't go anywhere and neither can those cows. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u96	I forgot that because of the growth of livestock, the climate would also increase in heat in this region. So the wine-growers could benefit greatly, especially in my province. Let's not hold on to those 200 days. I fully agree with you on this, but an eight-hour working day for a cow outside the stable would be possible. It is a question of promoting pasture and encouraging and encouraging the Secretary of State is not enough to reassure us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u97	So that means that there should also be derogations in that law from temperatures, rain showers and all that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u98	If you have any suggestions to improve the motion to that effect, I am highly recommended, Mr Schaap!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u99	I would advise Mr Thissen not to be too recommended to Mr Schaap. That grazing gives cows the opportunity to go outside. If a cow thinks it's too hot outside, it's gonna hide in the barn or in a little bit of a wood. That's no problem at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u100	Exactly! Free-range cows, that is what we want to pursue, Mr Schaap!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I know that animal welfare and the environment are at the heart of the Secretary of State. I also know that bringing all kinds of parties together is a difficult task. I can understand that. I think it is fair that the Secretary of State respects it if I quote renowned institutes such as the World Health Organisation and the United Nations. They say that livestock farming has unacceptable emissions of greenhouse gases. The World Health Organisation says that the promotion of dairy farming in any way leads to an increase in cardiovascular diseases resulting in deaths in Europe. Those are not my big words, but those are really the words of the World Health Organisation and the United Nations. We shouldn't be mirroring ourselves to anyone else either. Anyone who mirrores himself to another is softly mirrored. We are one of the biggest drivers of greenhouse gases because we are the most densely stocked country in Europe and one of the most densely stocked countries in the world. We will have to do something about that. This law is about that. Nor should it be easy to see that animal welfare in the Netherlands is well regulated. The Secretary of State can ask LTO how many leg problems there are that are not soluble and how much mastitis, udder infection, there is among dairy cows. That animal suffering really needs to be dealt with. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to more stringent monitoring of manure processing, but we also need more stringent monitoring of the welfare of dairy cows. I have three specific questions for the Secretary of State. She said the phosphate reference is a technical point. I am trying to make my point in an understandable way. In 2013, a large number of dairy farmers exceeded their milk quota. They paid a superlevy for that. No matter how you turn it, that tax is a fine. That's an incentive to slow down unwanted behavior. Farmers who have milked more than their quota was high have produced more phosphate. They may well be rewarded for their poor behaviour if the phosphate reference is not established on the basis of their milk quota, but on the basis of the quantity they have milked effectively. Someone who has driven too fast must pay a fine and the police will say: now that you have paid the fine, you may now drive a little faster than those who have always followed the speed limit. That can't be the intention. For that reason, I would like to table the next motion. Mr Koffeman, Mr Reuten, Mr Quik-Schuijt, Mr Strik and Mr Ganzevoort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many dairy farmers exceeded their milk quota in 2013;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish the dairy phosphate reference in respect of the quota as in 2013,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the legal title of ground-boundity. It is rather sensitive whether you are allowed to use nature reserves for the land to be rented. In my party's perspective, nature reserves should not be abused to further hunt down phosphate production. It'll happen. The answer to questions concerning the Lower House and the Upper Chamber is not clear. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to give us some clarity. It's about something. You bet. State Forestry alone rents 32,000 hectares of nature reserves. In the case of a hypothetical phosphate surplus of 100 kilos, 80,000 cows can meet the requirement of ground-boundness. One cow is 40 kilos of phosphate, so 2.5 times 32,000. That times 8,000 kilos of milk is 640 million kilos of extra milk. That represents 800,000 million kilos of extra CO emissions. As far as I am concerned, the leasing of natural areas in the AMvB should be excluded from the land-based requirement. It really should be about farmland. I would very much like to have that commitment from the Secretary of State. My final point concerns the economic significance of dairy farming. There's a lot of hammering on that, and I don't want to take much of that off. We must be aware that we are also, above all, an in- and transit country. We export 6 billion in milk, but we import 2.4 billion in dairy. In this sense, we are a kind of rotating wheel and conveyor belt in Europe. We are the gateway to Europe. In this sense, we must not exaggerate the importance of livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given. I remain of the opinion that this law has not been carefully implemented. I have the impression that the Secretary of State has lost the battle against time in the preparation of this law. That's what's bothering us now. Nor am I convinced that good consultation with the European Commission would not have helped, especially if it was clear that the majority of the two Chambers wanted a certain direction. Anyway, the Secretary of State says this was absolutely impossible. I thought Mr Van Zandbrink just used a nice term: the feed trail has been derailed. There is a chance. This concerns my group, especially when I realise that the Agricultural Economic Institute, in its so-called systems, is based on the maximization of that transport track and therefore the experience in 2013 is not very positive. Then the general measure versus the law. This has already been discussed in detail. My group really believes that the limitation of the manure treatment option should be included in the law itself, including its content. The Secretary of State says that there will be all kinds of numbers in the law and that we should not want that. I wonder whether we can make a good distribution, a good nuance in that. We do not know, however, because we do not even know what the Secretary of State wants to put into the general measure. We only have three systems on which it is going to discuss the field. That leads me to say that I cannot actually advise my group to vote in favour of this law. The heart of the law has not yet been filled. For this we will wait for the General Measure of Management. I hope I can agree to an amended law if that law contains the standards. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State did not want to make that commitment. She doesn't just say she's not capable of it, but she doesn't want it either. It wants the freedom and flexibility to always adapt the standards to AMvB. That is an important reason for my group to say that we should not then accept this law. The amended law must contain the concrete standards. That is why my name is included in the motion tabled by Mr Reuten. I must also say that it is not so easy to read the text. I have every sympathy for you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mr De Graaf says that the law is not clear and that the most important point is that there is no ground-boundness. This lacks the heart of the law. How does Mr De Graaf look at paragraphs 2b and 2c? It is quite clear that enlargement is possible, provided that it is ground-bound. Paragraph 2d states that groundless growth is possible, which is restricted by paragraph 5. If the law is passed, there is a very clear line on the possibilities for enlargement. There is an unclear line with regard to the possibility of enlargement without land. That speaks the law, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u105	No, the law says 100% manure processing is possible. It then states that there will be a general measure to limit the same option. We do not know whether this is a minimum or a very strong restriction. That's not in the law. This will make it a sort of blank scheme. I believe that the legislator should fill in the content of this limitation and should not leave it to lower regulations that we have nothing more to say about. The suspension procedure gives us the opportunity to say: we are not doing it. That does not mean that we can talk about legislation ourselves. That's why I'm saying it should be in the law itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u106	Paragraph 2d states that the groundless growth is limited. That's not a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u107	That is not in paragraph 2d, but in paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you for this correction. This growth is limited. The AMvB is coming through here. In fact, there is a weighted procedure which makes it possible to regulate things by law. What is needed to regulate soil-based growth even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u109	I don't know what I'm gonna take if I agree to this law. The question is to what extent we can limit the manure treatment option through the standards that are included in the General Measure of Management; the combination of soil-relatedness and manure treatment. I think that is an extremely important issue. This law doesn't rule on that. Strictly speaking, this law only says: the manure treatment option is possible and it is further limited in lower regulation. We do not know what that restriction means, nor do we know whether it is a sensible restriction. We have no idea. I think this should be in the law. The pending procedure means nothing more and nothing less than that we can look at it again. We do not have to agree. Nor is it the case that we, the Parliament, although we do not have the right of amendment to write along with the AMvB. That is why my group has reservations about this. Once again, an amendment is the best option for us. If the standards appeal to us, my group will cooperate wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u110	The Secretary of State is requesting a short suspension. She gets it, but I'm asking her to have her answered at 1.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u111	I call the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. I will try to provide a response to all the questions and the three motions that have been tabled. First of all, the discussion on what should now be regulated at AMvB and what by law. I listened very carefully to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, the last word has not yet been said. The fact that a heavy suspension procedure has been chosen gives the Chamber maximum room to influence it. The AMvB is prepared and consulted with civil society organisations and the sector. Then the Council of Ministers will have to decide on the proposal and a legislative test will be carried out. If the Council of Ministers has accepted the proposal, the concept will be placed before both chambers. I can assure you that I have also done so in the House of Representatives that, if the majority wishes to make changes to it, I will of course follow it. I will include this in the AMvB which eventually goes to the Council of State. If members do not think that is enough or if they want to regulate part of the AMvB by law, then this heavy procedure offers the possibility to do so. For this purpose, at least one fifth of the Constitutional number of members of one of the Chambers should indicate that the subject matter of the AMvB should be regulated by law. I can imagine that this is a route through which the maximum influence of both Chambers on the content gets a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u113	I'm not sure we understand each other. There is no misunderstanding about the heavy front suspension procedure. The question of many members of this Chamber is to include the essence of the AMvB in the law, through an amendment proposal. The Secretary of State goes ahead with the AMvB, including the front. Afterwards, there will be a legislative change that will include the essence of the AMvB, including the meaning of ground-boundity in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u114	I have just told Mr Schaap that this does not need to be decided definitively today, not even by me. I would like to reflect on what has been said by the Chamber on this matter. That doesn't mean I'm making a final commitment now. I want to be able to weigh this up. That is why it is important that we make the AMvB substantive. In doing so, we make the choice how we want to limit the option of manure treatment. What system do we choose for this and what does it look like in practice? I'm not saying today that I'm gonna put some or all of the AMvB in a bill. I'd like to consider doing that for part of the story. It's important to make that assessment when I know what the AMvB looks like. If a majority believes that the AMvB concept is not good and wants to amend it, I will accept it. I will take that into account in the proposal submitted to the Council of State. At the same time, the Court could decide to introduce the matter into legislation because it is a difficult procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u115	If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, she'll keep it open. The same applies to the possibility that it will still be encouraged to incorporate the standards into the law. Implicitly, she is asking for the motion to be held. In the event of disagreement, we can always decide that we want the motion to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u116	That's right, albeit I wish to dissuade the motion from another point of view. I am also asked about the power of command, but that is already in the law. On the first point, regulating it now in legislation, I recommend that the decision should not be taken now, but at the time when the AMvB is pending.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u117	Am I to understand that the Secretary of State says she's coming up with a number of variants for the AMvB? That is in accordance with the undertaking given to the House of Representatives. I would add the variant that it could also include parts in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u118	I don't come up with a number of variants. The LEI report has already shown those variants. It is now a question of making a choice. Let me give you a fictional example. We opt for the phosphate surplus per hectare. I'll say the norm must be 80. I'm just saying. If the majority says it should be 50, that is a political fact for me. I'll record that in the AMvB. I won't go through with my standard. To give an example is always a bit unhappy, but I'll do it just for clarity. At the moment when the Court does not approve of the content of the AMvB, it has the opportunity to amend the AMvB precisely by means of the heavy suspension procedure. I have the political commitment to accept that. Next, the Chamber itself has the option of transforming the AMvB into legislation. I have promised to consider whether this should be transposed into legislation. I just don't want to make a commitment on that today. I want to be able to take that into account in how I build up the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u119	For my group, it is very important that the principles underlying the standards are included in a legislative proposal. The numbers as such do not need to be included. How do you achieve a standard for groundboundness? That's interesting. Does the Secretary of State take that as part of her proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u120	Yes, because we will make a very precise proposal. I had to give that to Mr Van Beek too. It is about the way in which we shape the relationship between soilboundness and the possibility of regulating a part through manure processing. There is, of course, a substantive reasoning. Why do we choose which system? I say to Mr Terpstra that system No. 2, which leads to a reduction in the number of grazing animals per hectare, is included because this is a proposal that has emerged in the House of Representatives. I have tried to present a wide range of options to the LEI.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u121	The Secretary of State has just said remarkable things from a state-law point of view. We should be able to write to the AMvB. We can change the AMvB. We cannot, of course, formally do that at all. Should I point out the comments made by the Secretary of State in such a way that she also advises Mr Reuten's motion on this point? She doesn't want what he's proposing. It is invited to prepare the amending legislation already. It is better to clarify this than to envelop it in a vague mist.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u122	I had not at all reached the verdict on the motions, but if Mr De Graaf wants the answer: the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u123	You just said to hold on to this part and dissuade it from another part. I understand now that both parts are being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u124	That does not alter the fact that I can, as I have heard the Chamber, reflect on what has been put forward by several Members as a possibility. That's my right. The fact that I don't want to commit something today doesn't mean that it can never be promised. That's what I said. That is not foggy, but only a different order than Mr De Graaf might appreciate. Mr Koffeman asked whether farmers who were above the milk quota 2013 would receive a higher phosphate reference. Dairy farmers who milked above quota in 2013 will have kept more dairy cows. They have produced more phosphate and you can see that in the height of the phosphate reference. It is not forbidden to milk above the quota, but a superlevy is paid. Mr Koffeman asked whether the phosphate reference was based on the milk quota or actual milk production. Neither is assumed. The phosphate reference is based on the phosphate in manure. The word says it already. The phosphate reference marks the zero point in relation to which a company can show growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u125	Doesn't the Secretary of State want to make such an artificial distinction between milk and manure, because there is a direct relationship between them? If you increase milk production, you'll have more manure. It sounds very useful to look at it not on the basis of milk production, but on the basis of phosphate production. It will be the case that farmers who have milked above their quota have produced more manure and have thus been given more room to produce more phosphate by paying the super levy. In the motion, the Secretary of State is asked not to reward that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u126	I will return to the motion later, but the first assumption is not correct, because then the feed trail would be meaningless. Mr Van Zandbrink asked what the stick behind the door is to work on the feed trail. Ultimately, the stick behind the door is, of course, an introduction of dairy rights, of animal rights. I know that word is confusing, but I didn't come up with another word right away. However, I understand what Mr Thissen is saying. Mr Van Zandbrink pointed out that landboundness serves many purposes, not just the purpose of the law. He asked whether these objectives should be included in the law or whether they could also be included in an explanatory statement. The Fertilisers Act deals with the responsible use of fertilisers. Other objectives are outside the scope of the law, but of course they can be part of the action-oriented plan that we are discussing with the sector. I have, of course, already noted the grazing which is of great importance for dairy farming, and I shall say something about this later. Mr Schaap wants us to be more generous with what we consider to be part of the farmland. I have already said in the first term what is meant by 'agricultural land belonging to the holding'. Again, effective decision-making power is crucial. I note that what is included in the agricultural land belonging to the holding is already covered by the Fertilisers Act. That doesn't change with the underlying bill. I have also indicated why I am going for a clear meaning. We're not going to spend three "rent fee" on one "apartment." I also point out the difference between what you can count on for your own land and what you can do with manure that you cannot place on your own land. It is indeed possible to dispose of manure which cannot be placed on its own land with the farmer, to which Mr Schaap referred in the first term. And yes, manure placement agreements can be concluded for that. I think that the concerns expressed by Mr Schaap can be overcome precisely by the use of those manure placement agreements, which he himself referred to. Mr Reuten asked about the Alterra report. In general, large companies do indeed feed less than small companies. This seems to me to be an additional focus on the sector and on the discussion that we are certainly still having in the context of the covenant on pasture. Mr. Reuten said he wants to bury the hatchet. I appreciate that. He also asked whether we could establish that it is important to answer written questions properly. Yeah, that's right. Sometimes, of course, we have a difference of opinion on what is "despondent." I'm afraid that's subjective, but it's my commitment to doing that. So I'd like to promise him that. Mr Reuten also asked about my opinion on the grazing of beef cattle. The beef and veal sector consists of two parts: suckler cow farming and the fattening phase; yes, these are terms. In suckler cow farming, the use of pasture is general use. This means that also the calves are then in the cow in the meadow or on a nature reserve. In the manure phase the animals are in stables, but they are all stables with sunbeds of straw. To be honest, therefore, I think that this sector shows a lot of good things in this respect. Mr Van Beek challenged me because he asked me to look at the Commission with nodding knees. To begin with: in general I don't suffer much from nodding knees. In addition, we must not only implement European rules, but also ask the Commission to do something about them. It is not the case that the Commission will then answer us with a fine, but that it will not give us anything that is of paramount importance to more than 19,000 farmers. I do not want to lose that, but of course that is likely to happen. That is why I propose this proposal in this way. Mr Thissen outlined his view on the global food issue in general. That vision really appeals to me in part. He was right to say that it is also a question of distribution and that it is also about other consumption and production factors. That's for sure. I also hope that we can show this in the response to the WRR report on food: where are we? It takes too long to give a comprehensive discourse on this, because then I will have real problems with the President, but I look forward to the debate on this. We certainly also take into account climate objectives, as well as the Dutch sector, which is on course for achieving those goals. Mr Thissen asked why growth is needed at all in dairy farming. This growth is, of course, made possible by the disappearance of quotas. You can see that there is an international growth perspective, not only with products but also with knowledge and expertise, often also in that context. I want to give room for that, also because of employment and all the other things. I think I'm about to get to the motions. Mr Thissen asked what exactly is going on with the phosphate ceiling. He was talking about numbers other than those I mentioned. In the House of Representatives, 50, 80 and 100 kilograms of phosphate were mentioned as limitations of how much the farm could grow through manure processing; those numbers were also calculated in the LEI story. As a choice we come back to the implementation of the AMvB. I'm guessing that explains the difference between the numbers. Mr Koffeman asked if I would undertake to exclude natural areas from the establishment of land belonging to the dairy farm. The owner of a natural holding shall draw up an agreement with the farmer on the method of land use. This includes the amount of manure used. So I will not rule out those natural areas by law. You should know, however, that State forest management itself often lays down even stricter requirements than the law requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u127	Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask State Forestry to use as few natural areas as possible to change dairy reference?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u128	No, I can't just do that, because that really depends on the area. Sometimes grazing can be very important for certain areas. I really have the impression that State Forestry is very conscientious about this. I come to the motions tabled, first of all to the motion by Mr Reuten. The motion calls, if the bill is adopted, for an amendment to the law to be prepared at the same time as the development of the AMvB. It also calls for the legal significance of "decision-making power" to be included. The latter alone makes this motion impossible, because the essence of the law is that growth is possible on the basis of soil and/or manure processing. The content of the AMvB is therefore no more and no less than that the ability to grow through manure processing is limited. The definitions of "ground" and "power of decision" are not at all part of the intended AMvB, as they are already covered by the existing Fertilisers Act. From a purely legal point of view, what is requested in the motion is therefore not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u129	Mr Reuten, is it really very urgent? We're over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u130	If it's already part of the current law, I don't think it's gonna hurt either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u131	It's part of another law. In my opinion, it is really not wise to reorganise something that has already been arranged by means of such a construction in this law, because we have already laid down the ground and the power of decision. I have just stated in detail that we must be careful not to arrange for you to charge multiple landlords for the same "apartment"; you will agree with that. If you're not careful, that's what's gonna happen. I think that all those who care about ground bonding are in agreement. I should also like to dissuade Mr Thissen's passion for grazing. The motion calls on the government to make grazing mandatory in the law, also based on a standard that is not even the norm at the moment. The motion concerns 200 days, 8 hours a day and also 3 grazing livestock units per hectare. Mr Thissen has already made his choice for the implementation of the AMvB. That is possible; that is a political choice, but Mr Thissen has heard in the debate why I do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u132	I would like to amend the motion to that effect, which comes to the end, 'as a matter of free movement and as far as possible, and goes to the order of the day'. I see Mr. Sheep laughing. I interpret that so that he gets very excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u133	I continue to dissuade the motion because I want to encourage the sector to go further through another room, namely by reopening the covenant, as it were. So we want to achieve the same direction, but we choose another instrument. Mr Koffeman's motion calls for the dairy phosphate reference to be established at the level of the milk quota in 2013. I must also advise against that motion. The phosphate reference records phosphate production in 2013. Mr Koffeman made a comparison with a traffic offence, but that is not right. A violation of the law is, after all, a violation of the law. This is not the case if farmers exceed their milk quota; they only pay a levy on production. This was my contribution in the second term. Last year, I brought some raigenwege because I got here so late. Yesterday I realized that I cannot, of course, leave the challenge unspoken on that point. This should not be seen as an attempt to persuade people to vote in favour of the bill, but because I know that this is a very difficult, historically difficult day for this Chamber, I brought a small treat. I'm sure you'll find it in the coffee room later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u134	I heard the Secretary of State. I will remove the issue of the power of decision from the motion and table an amended motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u135	I thank the Secretary of State for the gesture that awaits us. It is indeed not seen as an attempt to change everyone's mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u136	I have come to deal with this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. This bill will be voted on at the end of the sitting tonight. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
