ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. After the terrible shooting in Alphen aan den Rijn, where Tristan van der V. shot six people with a firearm for which he was not licensed, the demands were rightly tightened. For example, you must now be a member of a gun association, the gun and the owner must be checked regularly and there will be a psychological test that must be done before you can even shoot a firearm. I think this is very sensible and necessary. I also think this is sensible and necessary when it comes to air-pressure weapons. These are weapons that not only look exactly like firearms, but are also as heavy and as deadly as firearms. A today demonstrated last week that it's easy to shoot a deer with it. Anyone over 18 years of age can freely obtain these air-pressure weapons via the Internet, dumpshops or weapons stores. There are no restrictions and there is no control over the purchase. Accidents are already taking place on the assembly line. In Zeist, a boy just escaped death because he was hit by an air-pressure weapon. Today a bus was shot at in Breda. The windows are out now and fortunately there are no wounded. It is now waiting for the moment when it really goes wrong. The SP has already asked the Minister in 2011 to resolve the gap in this law. In EenToday, I saw people arguing on behalf of gun sports clubs to solve this hole. I also saw scientists and colleagues from the CDA and the PvdA arguing for a ban on these air-pressure weapons. I only have one question for this minister. Can he ensure that, as of today, all air-pressure weapons, which are as powerful and as deadly as all other firearms, are covered by the same Weapons and Ammunitions Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Kooiman for her questions. I have to say, she has a point, let there be no misunderstanding about it. I was also impressed by the broadcast of EenVandaag about shooting big game. It was shocking to see. I can't say yes to her question right now. I can say, however, that I have already done so in response to her written questions and that next year I will examine the whole situation of heavy air pressure weapons. I shall then look at the gunpower, the limit value and the reasons why these weapons were taken out of the Act of Arms and Ammunitions in the 1980s. I will also look at enforcement. We need an instrument to maintain it. I think it is urgent and I say this to Mrs Kooiman, because I repeat that I think she has a point. I will make sure that I complete the investigation in May and come to the Chamber with conclusions. If we take the air-pressure weapons to another category, this will also mean legislation. I will give you an answer to that. Before I can do what Mrs Kooiman asks, whether it is legislation or action, we need an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I welcome the Minister's statement that I have a point and that he wants to investigate the possibility of banning it. If this Minister really thinks this is so important, he can do one thing now, and that is a ban on heavy air-pressure weapons. There are weapons currently in circulation that are twice as heavy as, for example, the police firearm. Those are impossible situations, and that's asking for accidents. I'd like to avoid that, and so would the minister, I suppose. I therefore ask him to at least check until the investigation has ended whether those heavy firearms can be banned, and then to look into which lighter weapons could be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Kooiman is asking for something that is impossible, because the Act does not allow weapons and ammunition. Of course, there are limits; we all know the law. We will enforce that law even more intensively than we do now. That is difficult, because it is mainly weapons that come in packages from abroad via the Internet and therefore do not need to be registered. I admit that I will do the research with great effort and will determine the limit values and the firing force. I will inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible and take the measures that the investigation indicates. I need proper consultation with the various players in this situation. I also need an international comparison. This is the fastest route I can walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	But an investigation isn't a prohibition yet. That is exactly the point I want to make here today. In 2011 research already showed that there is a gap in the law. Professor Ferwerda said the same thing on the air. I'm asking for a solution today. If the Minister says that the Act does not now allow weapons and ammunition, I ask him to make it possible today to at least ban heavy air-pressure weapons, which are sometimes twice as deadly as a police firearm.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs Kooiman knows better than anyone what is possible, because she knows this situation better than anyone else. I also replied to her in September what I was going to do, namely an investigation in the coming year. I would now like to step up this investigation, given the measures we have seen and the urgency to arrive at a determination of limit values and firing force, including in international comparison. I admit that I will allow the processes to run in parallel. This means that I do not wait for the investigation first and then respond to it. It means that at the same time I will look at what measures are needed and then inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	The minister says we can run trials in parallel. That is a complicated word for both research and actually do something. I ask the Minister: let this parallel action be to ban these heavy air-pressure weapons now, so the weapons we all do not want and with which today were incidents on a bus in Breda. Then we can prevent victims and actually have a good package to improve the Arms and Ammo Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	I do have some things to do at the same time. It is good that Mrs Kooiman says this again in simple language. I have to do research and, if necessary, take the measures necessary on the basis of research. There is urgency; we agree on that. However, I cannot go any faster than I have indicated. Nor can I ban things without legislation. We don't live in a country like this. However, I say that, of course within the margins, enforcement is being taken into account and that it is very important that we look mainly at foreign countries, i.e. the Internet packages for which registration is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	This surprises me a little, because three and a half years ago we knew what we know now. I'll put a pressing question to the Minister. If there is an incident involving an air-pressure weapon, where someone is seriously injured or where there may be a death, would the Minister say that he is going to wait and see the investigation quietly and that he can't? Then the Minister would say: I am going to speak to the Chamber today and we are going to take care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	Even in the situation in Alphen aan den Rijn, we have put in place legislation. We went straight to work, also with research and discussions with all parties. To maintain you not only need the Chamber, but you need all parties. You need to talk to the KNSA, you need the police and others, and you need legislation. I replied to Mrs Kooiman's questions in September of this year that I will start research next year. I'm now stepping up it with a time frame. We're gonna do a few things at the same time. I can. I'm honest with you that I'm standing in front of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I've heard the Minister say he's running a parallel trajectory. That means he's already coming up with measures to adapt the Arms and Ammo Act. I understand it takes some time. Is the Minister prepared to do something in the context of information on these serious weapons, which can cause injuries or worse? Is the Minister prepared to discuss in Europe with his fellow ministers, particularly Germany and Belgium, how to stop illegal arms imports to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	I can answer in the affirmative on both points. I think that information and information are very good, including for those who are now involved. It is also important to know the international market well and to discuss it with the colleagues concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	I want to support my colleague Kooiman and get some clarity from the Minister. Our legislation is so structured that if a table leg or a baseball bat is used as a weapon, it is a weapon for the law. Then the police perform. I ask the Minister what the police and the prosecutor can do if it is known that an air-pressure weapon has been worked or made in such a way that it can do the same as a firearm. Can the police go to the dealer or possessor to confiscate and act on that thing? Or does the Minister say that there is a gap in the law that is so bad that we cannot protect society for the time being, until that investigation in May? That's taking me far too long. I want a functioning government, a government that protects society from these kinds of weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	The law is, of course, enforced. These broadcasts are an incentive for tighter enforcement. It was the Chamber and the Cabinet in the 1980s that got all this out of the law. Now we are faced with the situation that the gunpower has increased. That is what we are faced with, and that is an urgent problem. I admit that in any situation where that occurs, the police and others will maintain. I shall refer to the authorities that are responsible for this matter. At the core, however, the problem lies elsewhere, namely in the legislation. You have to prepare it on the basis of research. I'll do that with urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	To be honest, I think May is taking too long. Perhaps there will soon be situations where we, looking back at the present situation, say: if only we had intervened. I understand that legislation is very important, but the law offers opportunities to intervene in very specific situations. I've been looking at the law for a while. For example, Article 7 (2) states that action may be taken by the Minister in situations where there are urgent reasons based on the general interest. I think there's such a situation right now. So I think you can use the law in your hand to try to control the case now. Of course, further research will then have to show whether it is really necessary and whether there might be more to it. However, I believe that you now have a legal instrument in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	That article takes care of the specific situation in which you can intervene at that time, and I am, of course, prepared to do so. There are services that do that for me. This is important, as is the issue of information. This does not alter the fact that, at the heart of the matter, the legislation of the past has to be taken back to see if it is a serious issue. Based on that, I'm gonna need research. So I'll do both. I make maximum use of the law and do whatever it takes. In addition, I improve the system based on research and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	At the risk of perhaps asking a somewhat double question, because I had to get here quickly from my office, I would like to put the following to the Minister. Air pressure weapons similar to real weapons are already covered by the Weapons and Ammo Act. So I'd like to hear from the Minister that he's going to keep it as well, given the danger that's been identified. With regard to the other category, my question is whether, pending the investigation, the Minister is prepared to see if anything can be made of an emergency law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	It is indeed a repetition of moves, but I am happy to tell you again. Based on the law, I'll do whatever it takes. I would also point out that in the 1980s, because of the enforcement and the unclear and complex situation surrounding the setting of limit values, all the relevant articles were removed from the law and therefore no leave obligation was allowed. We are now going to see if things can and need to be done now, but I will need research to do so, otherwise we will fall into the same trap as your colleagues and my predecessors in the 1980s, which we must avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mrs Helder, second question on behalf of your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	There's a lot taken out of the law, but there's still something in it. With regard to Category IV, the Arms and Ammunition Act refers to air-pressure weapons that are so genuinely similar that they are suitable for threat. They can simply be maintained. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that this happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	I will maintain all articles of the Act weapons and ammunition, so also on this point. However, in the case of which EenVandaag also reported, this does not apply and we must establish a category in terms of the limit value and the firing force. We need to establish where the norm is and where it is not; we need to be able to formulate it below it and above it. That's what I need research for.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	Those weapons fall under Category IV of the Arms and Ammo Act. That means you can keep them at home unless you're under 18 years old. If you're walking in the street with it or you're gonna shoot it in the street, it's just criminal. So I think that point has been tackled. I understand very well that the Minister wants an investigation to change his legislation, but as far as I am concerned, it can be done faster. We know what the effect is. We also saw it at Oneday. We have experts in the police, wallet holders Wet weapons and ammunition. It is a question of buying up those weapons, because they are freely available, and then to do tests with them quickly. In this way, we can talk to the Minister much earlier about a legislative process. I'd like to hear his reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	I have already indicated what I need in order to be able to walk the route properly. I intend to do so in May with a parallel process in which I prepare at the same time the measures which the research indicates are necessary. It is important not to do that in succession. In addition, we will fully enforce all the instruments already provided by the Arms and Ammunition Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	The SGP is also very concerned about this. I hear the Minister says that there is a research trail in May and that it will be continued afterwards, but that the possibilities are already being exploited. My question is what the latter means in concrete terms. What can and will the Minister do to put an end to this practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	I think I made that clear to Mrs Berndsen. This is, of course, information and a discussion with the authorities involved, such as the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the KNSA, in order to intensify enforcement. What the law already offers? Mr Oskam gave an example that we all know. In a public environment, you can't be detected with an air-pressure weapon. That's maintained. In addition, international contact here is important, because where do they come from? They're from Belgium, they're from Germany and they're from the Internet. This requires an approach that has not been implemented tomorrow, but which we must work hard with each other on. I acknowledge with the Chamber the urgency of this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven of the D66 Group.
