ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	Today we are discussing the report of the Committee of Inquiry, a special moment. The temporary committee ICT projects at the government is the eighth research in the framework of our own future and research agenda. With this debate with the Chamber, the Committee is responsible for the work carried out and for its conclusions and recommendations contained in the report presented on 15 October by the Committee on the Control of ICT. I am therefore pleased that the members of the Committee of Inquiry are in the business in which the members of the cabinet normally sit. Behind them are the people who supported the committee; their work is of extraordinary significance for the committee in particular and for the Chamber as a whole. I would like to welcome them all. The members of the committee are Mr Van Meenen, Mrs Bruins Slot, Mr Elias, also Chairman, Mr Ulenbelt, Vice-President, and Mrs Fokke. The research staff is behind the members of the committee, again from left to right: Mrs Öncü, Mrs Lemaier, Mrs Koops, Mrs Naborn, Mr Van Roon and Mrs Van Cologne. Today we are holding the first term of office. Tomorrow afternoon, the chairman of the committee will answer the questions of the members. I therefore give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The government knowingly orders a car without a steering wheel and is then surprised at the extra cost of that steering wheel. This metaphor, from one of the hearings, is reflected in several places in the report of the temporary committee on ICT projects in the government. The Committee provides a thorough analysis of a number of ICT projects, but more importantly, of the organisation and culture in which these projects were created. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to thank the committee, not to mention the staff, for the lengthy work on this complex dossier. The underlying documents contain very readingable analyses and overviews, and the conclusions and recommendations that follow from them are readable and very understandable to everyone. The car's metaphor is still mild. The Commission's image is staggering and disenchanting. A project such as C2000 lasted eleven years and at that time it did not yet work. The electronic patient file was launched without answering the question. The modernisation of the municipal basic administration lasts at least 15 years and has been turned upside down once or twice. With the O.V. chip card, the minister's perseverance was lacking. At the tunnels of the A73 tens of millions were lost due to wishes of the House of Representatives. Is this because the committee has selected some miserable examples? Well, no. In my immediate vicinity, including in our group, there are so many unsolicited examples that I have only become more concerned. The committee sums up these problems quite clinically. Politics does not realise that ICT is everywhere and the government as a whole does not control its ICT projects and does not fulfil policy ambitions. The accountability culture is flawed, there is insufficient understanding of costs and benefits, and the implementation lacks knowledge. Contracts are poorly put into the market and there are perverse incentives in the procurement process. Project management is weak and contracts lead to a vendor lock-in or, in plain Dutch, you are stuck with the same supplier forever. Almost all cases run the same red threads. The Lower House didn't have much of its controlling task. The foundations for good project management were not in order, but especially the culture in which these projects are created is inconvenient. The Chamber asks for something, the rulers cannot or do not want to sell a no and then the misery lies with the project leader. The specifications are changed, sometimes not so much, but this inevitably leads to more costs and all kinds of complications. The project becomes more expensive, it will of course take longer and over time the project has become an end in itself that becomes increasingly isolated from the rest of the organisation. Of course, ICT in government is naturally complicated. A large number of files need to communicate with each other, regulation is constantly changing and there needs to be room for customisation. The government cannot pursue ICT opportunities such as a company, a travel shop or an internet store, which may be possible. The Dutch government is not unique in this. Governments in other countries face the same problems, the same additional costs and the same delay. Of course, large companies also have problems with ICT. Banks and insurers, for example, are struggling with the legacy, the old junk of their predecessors, which gives you cutting-edge automation. Those companies have a board of directors of 6 or 7 people, not 150. That brings me to the role of the House of Representatives. A good parliamentary inquiry is a mirror for the Chamber itself in the first plane. Then let us not shy away from this confrontation. It is worrying that the only success story in the research, the Platform Independence programme of the RWD, was also a success because we managed to keep it out of the political arena. It was a bit more neat in the conclusion, but as a Chamber we are rather naive and rather ignorant in this area. Too often we make decisions without realizing the consequences of this in the field of ICT. Too often we don't recognize policy topics as ICT topics; think of the surcharges at the Tax Administration. If we know that something is an ICT issue, then we are blindly assuming that it will be solved for a while, as if a smart computer nerd would do it on the weekends. The easiest step we can take will also cost the least: increasing our own knowledge. This spring, the VVD Group took the ICT course from the General Administrative Service to the Chamber and invited all MPs to do so. Those who participated then suddenly understood a lot more of the challenges in this field. We will do that again in the coming year, and I hope for a broad turnout. It will therefore be easier to take a next step. If we are to achieve less complexity in automation processes, we must also simplify our own processes. Less complexity means simplification of existing rules, fewer new rules and fewer exceptions to rules; less this and that in politics. You can't shut everything down from the House of Representatives. Simplifying processes is also contained in prayer rules, which I will return to in a moment. Another point is our controlling task. The Committee rightly points to the Grote Projecten Scheme and the quality of dashboards. In that advice, I'll look for a little more focus. How can we prevent the endless flow of reports that are once again taken off in a collection AO after six months? How do we ensure that we are more focused on these projects? Does the committee have any detailed ideas on how the Chamber operates on this point? Our task is not difficult at its core: what should it do, what will it cost and when will it be ready? That is the core of project management. If you turn one button, the other two will turn. If you've answered those three questions, then you know what a minister can take care of. That's gonna have to be our day job. We have to ask these questions and come back to them all the time. If you look a little further, you'll join the ministries. A lot has changed there in recent years. ICT problems have been neglected for a long time and thrown into a pile with facility management. That's fine for workplace management, but not for departmental transcendental issues. That insight is now widely shared. Each ministry now has a chief information officer and that CIO is virtually everywhere on the board. That brings me to the point of culture. Is this CIO really in a position to say no and to protect the Minister or the Secretary of State from errors? How do these CIOs work together? Is the national CIO just a primus inter pares or can he really do something? Who tells the Minister that a project is not feasible in advance? Who tells the minister that an ongoing project needs to be stopped? The picture presented by the committee is underlined by what I hear from the sector. There is a culture of non-intervention, always focused on consensus. What does this mean for the individual projects? Steps are taken in progress, including gateway reviews, but the biggest challenge lies at the start of the project. The tasks should be defined more clearly. In the procurement procedure, there should be scope for dialogue, for public-private cooperation, for "past performance" information and for best value procurement. Apologies for the jargon, Mr. Chairman. Maybe we should give Professor Renkema a permanent position here. Providers should be able to consider a solution in good time. They must be able to make a realistic bid and must also be able to assess their performance in previous assignments. The only way we're going to do that is if we put more direction into the process ourselves. The Committee presents an insightful picture of the cultural problems surrounding ICT. They start with political desirability and seep through to unbelievable tenders: the car without steering. We need unorthodox measures to break that culture. Something or someone needs to be able to watch from the outside. In order to remain in the metaphor, there must be a lesson car with an extra brake pedal. The VVD therefore expresses warm support for the ICT Test Office, or BIT. The committee was inspired by the British example. For a period of about five years, it seems to my group to be excellent if we take a look at whether a number of business principles are met: a good business case, good project management and well-invested responsibilities. In short: the BIT rules. Let's get that BIT started as soon as possible. Only in this way can the current culture be broken. Can the committee indicate what it needs to achieve this? I understand there are 10 or 15 FTEs. That amount must be found within the existing budget. Does such a BIT also need a research budget or money to use outside expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	The VVD Group thinks BIT is a good idea. This also applies to the D66 Group. I have a question about the five-year period. The Committee recommends a period of five years with a possible extension to seven years. Does the VVD fraction have a defined horizon in advance or does it want to see what is good along the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'm talking about a lesson car with a brake pedal. The nice thing about a class car is that you need it temporarily. However, you hope that it will have a lasting effect. As far as I am concerned, it depends a little on how we will set up BIT and whether this should be done by law. However, there can simply be a horizon clause in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	There can indeed be a horizon clause in it. The committee says that there is a need for cultural change. It's gonna take a vehicle. One of the vehicles is that BIT. It may be that a culture change needs more time. Do we set a period in advance or leave it open?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Maybe we should just ask the committee. I understand that proposal for five or seven years: we are doing it for at least five years and after five years we are considering whether we should add two more years. However, if Mr Verhoeven and I find in five years' time that this has not changed, the period may have to be longer. I'm not really in principle here. The BIT will have two functions. It will critically test projects in that it has the role of watchdog and it will advise on motions and initiative laws. The VVD Group would like some clarification on this advisory function. The idea of such a test makes sense. It can prevent a lot of misery in the first stage. However, we do foresee a number of constitutional complications if one Member of Parliament can demand a test on a text from the other Member of Parliament. Then we'll be another week. I can tell you that we completed a legislative process last night which I would have preferred not to postpone a week or even two days. Mr Verhoeven knows what it was about. However, we want to do justice to that idea of the committee. We could put it on something else. Each Member of Parliament could then, for example, ask for an ICT test via Bureau Legislation in relation to his motion or legislative text. The Legislative Office will then deport it to the BIT. At the same time, the Minister or Secretary of State may ask for such a test. That should work disciplinedly, because the Member of Parliament who does not allow this review to be carried out is confronted with this during the course of the procedure. Is this an option for the committee? If so, can we, for example, submit this to the Working Method Committee? The BIT will assess new projects from the start, but how are we going to ensure that the projects that are already in the pipeline are still assessed by the BIT? Otherwise, we will continue to treat ourselves to failure after failure for the next five years. The VVD sees the BIT as an additional guarantee, a temporary car, but in the meantime we have to work on a good structure within the ministries, especially at project level. It must be crystal clear who is responsible for which project. The committee adheres to the existing principle that the trade minister is responsible. The CIOs should be given more perseverance. But how does that relate to a state CIO that should also be given more perseverance? It may then be possible for two ministers to be called to account. Can the committee explain this? By the way, there is still a parallel with a few other department-wide files, such as central purchasing and housing. There is also a central policy for this, but ministers remain responsible for their own activities. We see that in practice this leads to a great deal of difficulty in terms of competence. Couldn't we just sort this out in one go? It should be laid down by law that the Minister for Housing and the National Service is responsible for the frameworks for ICT, procurement and housing and that within them the Minister of Commerce is responsible. Can the committee respond to that? The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst has a real influence on the quality of the procurement, contract management and project management. The committee also writes about the use of open data and open sources. That should not even be a point of discussion. However, the availability of good people and sufficient expertise remain crucial. I would like to say here that in recent years I have experienced a great deal of passion and quality in terms of content within the government. Those people don't need farming intelligence. It is precisely them who are concerned about the same problems that the committee finds and about the transfer of political decisions to their work. However, once the culture has improved, the clientship and project management can also be taken into account. More direction needs to be given to size, complexity and lead time. A good ICT project can be completed within a year and a half. If you make it bigger or longer, then nothing can go wrong, while making mistakes is essential in a good process of development and testing. Looks like the project's gonna take longer, let's cut it up. System architecture becomes all the more important. The role of the CDI is thus all the more important. In the meantime, project leaders must be firmly committed to any attack on the direction they must exercise. The committee proposes to employ enough ICT experts. For the VVD, more good people do not automatically mean that the total number of ICTs needs to be raised in government. These are mainly professional people. This enables us to counter-balance suppliers. But if we are going to organise this counterweight, is the committee prepared to pay the salaries that really deserve good project leaders in the market? The committee writes neatly that it should work within the Top Income Standards Act, but at the moment you can't even grow on content within the government. Why would a project leader work in the government if he can earn two or three tons externally? Wake up, people! Those aren't exceptional salaries for these kinds of complex jobs. I have another point on the supervisory role of the Chamber. Last week we discussed the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations. That committee needed a few pages to present its experience with the Parliamentary Survey Act. However, that committee also had all kinds of powers which are part of such an investigation. The Elias Committee did not have these powers and ran into them very hard. I took note of that. I hope that the Temporary Committee on Evaluation will include the conclusions of this committee. I have a few more questions about that. The Elias Committee describes some incidents which show that there was actual unwillingness to share information. Could they have been prevented with additional powers? If so, with which? How does the committee view the quality of archiving in the government? You can assume that the traditional paperwork is still in place, but are e-mails now, for example, well archived? Is there a system for that? Can you find them, too? The VVD agrees with the spirit of the 34 recommendations written down by the Committee. What's next? We will, of course, discuss the recommendations with the Cabinet. Hopefully this will be done in the short term. We can already see that the cabinet must make a move on the recommendations. They need to be expressed in pain. This means, above all, that they must be measurable and that they can be paid for. Then, of course, they must be carried out. What is the Committee's view of further progress? Are we getting an extra dashboard with 34 metres on it? Do we then have to talk about it half-yearly or do we choose a longer term, for example in three years' time? I look forward to the answers to these questions. The next major project is the European Rail Traffic Management System. It's a billion or two. Of course, we can ask in advance about things like time, money and functionality. My question to the committee is, however, what more specific opinions does it have? Let us above all ensure that there is no need for the next Elias Commission and that the opinions are put into practice as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a sincere thank you to the members of the Temporary Committee on ICT. Over the past two years, they have worked very hard with the final result of the report Towards ICT grip. That report has a clear title and an ambitious message in my opinion. Unfortunately, it is not the first time that ICT projects and government have been exposed that it is difficult to combine. We are already many more reports, reports from the General Court of Auditors, the National Ombudsman, the Lower House itself and many gateway reviews of major ICT projects, but apparently nothing has been learned from that. Quite apart from the fact that it has been clear for a long time that tax money is being wasted on ICT projects in the government and the large number of recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee on ICT, I would recommend that at least this clear report and the momentum should be used to really do something about it. That is why I do not back down to pass the dozens of conclusions and recommendations and pull a few out. That is why I do not hesitate to make new recommendations that are not contained in the report. I do not want us to talk about parts during the debate and not about the whole of it. The committee also states that it is all or nothing: if not all the recommendations are accepted, it makes no sense. Personally, I think that goes a little far. I do not believe that the report is now, suddenly, Columbus's egg and that it is suddenly solving all the problems. Many conclusions and solutions sound familiar to me. However, nothing has been done with it so far. I've read the report and the responses to it. ICT projects are not isolated and should not be assessed in this way. ICT projects do not come from the sky, but are carried out because an organisation wants to do something better, innovate or something like that. ICT should serve to improve the organisation. I miss that aspect in the committee's recommendations. This is mainly driven by the ICT project and its management; too little is driven by the organisation. Isn't there just too much ICT expected, for example? Or is it just ICT and not the fact that one knows what one can do with it or what one wants with it? Isn't ICT really about organisational change? Are ICT projects not considered too much as technical projects rather than large-scale change projects, as I read in the article submitted in the Dutch newspaper on 17 October? The Committee wants clients of ICT projects to gain more ICT knowledge in order not to lag behind the project's executioner. That seems fine to me, but no matter how well the client works on this, he will continue to lag behind the executive ICT company in this respect. For this reason, I can imagine that it should be primarily about the direction of the project. Doesn't a firm control of the supplier of an ICT project produce at least as much as steering on the ICT, on the content of the project? Isn't it at least as important?I think it's even more important that clients learn how to handle a business case and how to keep a grip on it? For example, they can ensure that the command does not expand ever further because users think they need more. Of course, the project's suppliers, with their commercial interests, would like to, too gladly, provide for this. I do not think that this aspect is sufficiently emphasised in the recommendations of the Committee on ICT Project Management or Contract Management. As far as I am concerned, the committee's most striking opinion is that to set up the ICT Examination Office I will just call it BIT from now on. The BIT must be a small, effective organisation that reviews projects above EUR 5 million prior to a call for tenders. Without the BIT's green light, a project will not go ahead. During the BIT journey, the agency can even stop a project. The BIT should be covered by the Ministry of General Affairs. That sounds solid. I wonder how that should work in practice. Mark Rutte discusses the automation with the police, or stops the OV-chipkaart; so he interferes with the execution of the work of his colleagues. This means quite a lot for the way in which we now deal with ministerial responsibility and with the way in which we now work with independent departments. Why is such an emergency brake necessary? Can't a non-binding advice be enough, a so-called BIT with a bite? If the Court of Auditors gives a strict opinion, will it not be ignored? Can the committee explain to me why it does choose this construction? In addition, I think it is very important that those responsible for managing ICT projects should also be held responsible. Everyone in such a project must know what their role is and feel responsible for it. Ultimately, it is a cultural change, in which everyone does what they have to do and does not transfer tasks and responsibilities to another person. In short, will a BIT with too much perseverance not act as final responsibility and will this not ensure that the sense of urgency still does not reach the departments? We would like to receive a response from the committee on this point. It seems to me right that the BIT should be introduced, but only temporarily and with a truly independent position and review framework, with a more testative and advisory role, in the sense of the second recommendation, as an organisation that tests it. Moreover, I think it is a good recommendation that motions for resolutions and legislative proposals can be reviewed by the BIT at the request of a Member of Parliament. We are rather quick to make proposals, but we do not always see the implications of ICT. Does this test also apply to amendments? Should we not agree that we are going to standardise amendments and own-initiative legislative proposals on ICT? In doing so, we take the consequences of our choices as seriously as the government should in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	I myself am struggling with Mrs Oosenbrug's question. In future, she wonders whether we should not have all of our proposals reviewed by an independent, small, sharp and sensible team with knowledge of the facts. What does this mean for democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	It's not all about proposals. It is only the proposals that have an ICT background. I am thinking, for example, of proposals on the V-chip card and the GBA. The Court would like to add to such proposals a number of additional points. From a democratic point of view, that is understandable. I give an example of the Court's decision that the Tax Administration should make certain payments, while the Tax Administration is used to collecting only. Then things go wrong and the Chamber stands on its back legs. I think we should think about this very carefully. If that had been tested in advance, the misery probably wouldn't have arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	I understand Mrs Oosenbrug's thinking, but an amendment involves the adaptation of a legislative text. If the Chamber decides by majority to amend the law, it will. It's hard when someone's gonna test what that piece of legislation means. In the case of motions for resolutions, I can imagine something else, because motions are always subject to a certain period of elaboration. In the case of laws, I think it goes rather far when a smaller power says that it is going to look at a democratic change in the law. Should this law possibly be reversed later? How does Mrs Oosenbrug see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Again, it is really about the ICT side of proposals. If an amendment provides for a change in ICT that may not be achieved within six months, while our democratic process says that the law should enter into force now, it will create a certain tension. I do not want to go so far as to say that the amendment cannot be implemented, but I do think it is important to know, even as a Member of Parliament who, at some point, has to say yes or no to something, whether this has a major impact on the ICT systems that are behind it. I think that the Chamber should think very carefully about this, because in the end the Chamber was democratically elected. The recommendation that the results of suppliers from the past should now be taken into account in new tenders and in the assessment of offers seems to me to be very important. The government must become more resilient to suppliers. Of course, the client has to improve the management of ICT projects, but suppliers who have performed poorly should be able to pay for them in a subsequent call for tenders and join them in line. In any case, I believe that the performance of ICT projects is not only attributable to the government, but also to the suppliers. The fact that this has to be taken into account in the procurement process, by clearly emphasising that the supplier should not place the account of overruns in time and money on the taxpayer, seems to me to be very necessary. There should be an improvement through the handling of the ARBIT, the current general conditions for the purchase of ICT by the government. I should like to hear from the committee whether these conditions have already led to an improvement and whether these conditions should be tightened further. The report talks about a waste of billions, with a very large margin between 1 and 5 billion. Of course, every waste is too much, but the extent to which it is done does mean something. We need to know what we are talking about, especially in order to assess whether all the committee's proposals are proportionate to the profits that we can achieve in the financial sense. So I would like to see a basis for this claim, because it is also a saving that the government could make in relation to ICT projects. I would like to hear a response from the committee on this point. I regularly discuss the three "opens" in various debates: open source, open data and open standards. I am pleased to read that the Temporary Committee on ICT has also looked into this issue and supports 'passing on or explaining'. Openness and transparency are also warmly embraced, which is in line with the "open unless" agenda of this cabinet. How can it be ensured that "pass or explain" does not stranded time and time again in explanations ending in a vendor lock-in? Finally, it is striking that in the past the cabinet managed to provide a complete overview of ICT projects, but that this stopped in 1995 because of a lack of practical usefulness. I would therefore like to see these overall reviews restored, as set out in Recommendation 5, Bullet c. The real key question is not answered in this debate, but in the following. Is Minister Blok picking up the glove? What will he do with the large package of recommendations? He will have to come up with a comprehensive approach, which shows that he takes the lessons of this committee seriously and ensures better management of major ICT change projects in the organisation of the government. We look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of D66, I would like to express my sincere thanks for all the work done by the committee. She has come up with a very thorough and intricate report, with very good recommendations which I think we can really do with. It is good to see that in two weeks we have seen a committee of our own at work twice and that the work can lead to serious changes in both cases. We have spoken to the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations over the past week. This committee has already put a number of things into the law. I have the impression that this committee will be able to make a real difference with the work it has done on a number of points. As far as I am concerned, we shall have a good debate on this. I myself once had the honour of running such a committee. It is very important to see that the Chamber takes these opinions seriously. My group will certainly do so. To illustrate the importance of the work of this committee, I would like to quote my colleague Sjoerdsma. He came into my room in a panic at some point, because he Googled the term "ICT." He said, "That's the International Campaign for Tibet." I said to him: I think you just mean that ICT stands for information and communication technology. That's the term we're talking about. Knowledge on the subject begins with the term ICT. Mr van der Linde's contribution just now showed that there are many veiled terms, complicated words and terrible constructions. A very large part of it can be removed without anything being done in terms of content. The committee has already pointed that out. I'll get back to you. Thanks again to the committee for its analysis, sharp conclusions, based on the analysis, and recommendations. The committee knows its classics. A committee of the Chamber always gives a number of warnings before a report is discussed. The first is: treat the report in conjunction with all or nothing, said Mrs Oosenbrug just took over integrally, don't go running cherrypicking from our advice. This is often said by committees because after all the work they have done they are convinced of their opinions and the coherence between them. Commissions also often argue that the urgency of the subject is high and that their report should be valued. Mr Elias gave an interview to NRC Handelsblad a few days ago. He had a bit of a feeling that the committee's opinions will not be listened to properly enough. In that context, he even hinted at a parliamentary survey. How does he see that? Isn't he a little too gloomy about the value of his report in advance on some parts? I believe that this can lead to many improvements. The third classic, which this committee also correctly appoints, is that there must be a change in culture. That's an open door, but it's true. This culture change needs to be brought about. I believe that the committee's recommendations, more concrete than a cultural change, are supportive in this context. The committee knows the content and the classics. I hope, however, that the committee will be confident that the Chamber will see this and that it will not be afraid that nothing will change after this report has been examined. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations has shown that the work of the Chamber does indeed affect a lot of things. The Committee has included a separate chapter, at the beginning of the report, on the information from the departments and the cooperation it received in its case studies, the cases it wanted to investigate and which have been investigated. In my view, the committee rightly points out the possibility of evaluating the Parliamentary Survey Act on this point and looking at ways of strengthening the position of committees of inquiry. I support the committee's comments. It is a bit ironic to note that, as a result of the Commission's position vis-à-vis the departments and the way in which information was provided, this research itself acquired a number of characteristics of an ICT project. The planning wasn't quite made here and there. The committee wrote that more work had to be done. There was sometimes dissatisfaction with the results and the possibilities. The prior appointments weren't always as good. In view of these observations and looking back, what would the committee do differently, for example in the area of prior agreement? Then a question about a salient detail. In the chapter on information provision, the letter from the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, a second letter, which was not made public. However, according to the report, the letter was sustainable in a broader context. I've been looking for the letter. Is it public? I wonder what it says. Maybe it's not that exciting, but I was triggered by the way the contact between I and M and the committee went. I agree with the committee on a number of warnings regarding the failure to keep records and matters relating to project registration. The confidentiality is often used as a screen not to give certain information. The committee has come up against this on a number of occasions. The lack of urgency to work with seems to me to be something we have to keep looking at. The Committee further shows that wanting to steer the issue of whether or not to give information, give whole bunch of information or not to answer targeted questions can be better done when it comes to the position of the Chamber in relation to the objects examined, in this case the ministries. The committee makes a number of firm observations. ICT projects are out of order in the government. That costs EUR 1 to 5 billion a year, and that is a huge waste of money. It is therefore right that the committee says that this should be put to an end quickly. The committee outlines two patterns. First of all, the pattern of the larger the project, the more it goes wrong. Secondly, the pattern of the supplier's dependence, the more it goes wrong. These two iron laws or iron patterns recognize the commission. However, I wonder whether the committee has also looked at smaller projects. Have any projects been investigated that were much less large in nature? If you only investigate large projects, you will of course only encounter the patterns of large projects. I assume that this has happened, but I would like to hear it from the committee. Then I come to the estimate of 1 to 5 billion. That is deliberately a very broad estimate. The committee says this is because there is no overview of the costs of ICT projects in the government. That seems to me to be a fair observation. But how can an estimate of 1 to 5 billion be achieved? Can the committee back that up again? That bandwidth is hard to write down by the committee. Then why can't I? I shall then come to the committee's analysis. The committee actually says very simply: ICT is everywhere. Often, a false start is made at the beginning.Of course, this is by definition at the beginning.Because there is blind confidence, thoughtlessness or overenthusiasm. ICT is seen as a solution or ICT is a blind spot when inventing things where one does not realize that there is a large ICT component in it. ICT is therefore sometimes a sacred grail and sometimes a blind spot. This often leads the government to take a path in the beginning, leading to a trap that it no longer comes out of. The management of the projects, the management of the contracts, the relevance of the projects are not sufficiently regulated by the government. The committee also says that the incentives are wrong. It notes, in my own words, that almost no one is interested in the success of the project. In other words, the running out of money or time of the project is because almost no one really has a position to break it. As a result, everyone participates in the follow-up step: the run-off and the tie-up of new costs to such a project. Furthermore, the Committee notes that there is simply too little knowledge in the government when it comes to being able to manage and control the projects properly. This is not only the case in the field of ICT, but also, for example, in the area of procurement opportunities, the market structure when choosing the client and the understanding of management and maintenance, which often turns out to be a very large cost post after the start of such a project. The resilience of the public authorities in the field of ICT to counter the supplier will therefore need to be increased. Also, project management and contracts are often not used professionally to ensure that time and money are delineated. The committee comes up with a number of clear and valuable recommendations. For example, I happen to have indirectly witnessed the fact that Mr Elias, the chairman of the committee, who was on a working visit with the Media Committee, left at the same time to make an efficient visit to the Government Digital Service and the Major Project Authority in London, where the committee has taken much of its inspiration. The Committee drew inspiration not only from the United Kingdom, but also from the United States by using the range of rules derived from the Clinger-Cohen Act. She has translated these into BIT and BIT rules, actually the ten farmers' understanding rules, so she has been inspired by the American example. When you read the ten BIT rules, you think at first: well, those are open doors. Then I thought: that's a good thing, because open doors are open, but then we often forget to walk through them. These are ten farmers' understanding rules, so they must also be open doors. The funny thing is that we always forget them when we start such a complicated project. That's why I see the value of those ten lines very well for me. I think it's very good. I'd almost say brave... to write them down. Of course, you get the reaction from the field in the vein of: it's super-complex matter and then they come up with ten farmers' understanding rules, well, well, well... Well, I like the contrast. I think the added value is in making projects simple, rather than always going along with that complexity. If you don't know a thing, there's always an advantage for those who know it. Who can pretend to have a lot of sense of it and as if it is very complicated for you, so that you are dependent on that person who has all that knowledge, knows all those complicated words and knows all those different terms and systems so very well. Just making the problem simple, making it easy and defining what you want, is so important. I think that this is perhaps the biggest move to actually bring about cultural change. I have some questions about BIT and the BIT rules. They relate first and foremost to democracy. If there is a BIT that could examine motions or, in the words of Mrs Oosenbrug, even amendments, how does that relate to the democratic position of the Chamber? I can see very well that BIT is not a bureaucratic layer. The committee wrote that down very well. It's a small, sharp, smart team that can say independently: ho, ho, ho, do you know what you're getting into? But the question is: if BIT is going to constantly whistle back the Chamber, isn't that at odds with democracy? I would like to hear the precise workings of the committee again. Is it true that departments can use the BIT if they start their own project? Can the Court seek an opinion from the BIT at the time when a department is working on something that the Chamber finds insufficient control over it, or is it only intended to whistle back to the Chamber itself? I think it's for both, but I'd like to hear it from the committee again. Then the time line: why should it take five years in advance? I think it is right for the committee to say that we do not all want to make up things that we will never get rid of. There has to be a cultural change at some point. I would be careful, however, to say too early that we are putting an end to this at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Verhoeven uses words like "the Chamber's whistles" and he talks about amendments and motions. I actually see it a lot more positively, namely that we are going to have some sort of self-learning ability in this Chamber. Does Mr Verhoeven also see that such a BIT is indeed a test and at some point says: listen, Chamber, you have tabled this motion, but these are the consequences in the field of ICT? That doesn't have anything to do with whistles, does it? How does Mr Verhoeven see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	I can see very well that there is indeed a great enthusiasm in the House of Representatives to make proposals, to help proposals to a majority and to initiate proposals. I can see that. I can only imagine that every now and then you think: let us think about that. What I'm worried about is this. You're gonna do something you don't do in a number of other areas. I will bring that to the attention of the government when placing the BIT. The question that will arise is: should we do so in a number of other areas? How much do you rig that up? We do, of course, have a democracy that already has a lot of counterpowers, on the basis of a number of elements which are part of democracy, in order to guard the self-cleaning capacity of democracy. I wonder whether an organization that is small and narrow should always be able to influence the political majorities. I think it can certainly be a good idea, but there is also an upper limit to it as far as I am concerned. I'll ask the committee to do that. Maybe the committee has given that a lot of thought, but it was a question that occurred to me. Mr Van der Linde also mentioned it in his block of constitutional issues. It's just something I'm wondering out loud. In addition to the five-year limit, the committee also sets a limit of 5 million. Is that because it usually goes well below that limit, in the vein of: small projects for a lower amount usually go well, so isn't it necessary for that? Finally, in this area, I come to the placement of BIT. The danger is that we are all going to push the thick report of this committee with all these valuable recommendations through some kind of funnel and that we are only going to talk about whether or not BIT is going to be covered by the Prime Minister. I would regret that, because there is much more in the report than just that. However, it is an important question. I'd say there's four flavors. The committee says very clearly: at General Affairs, under the Prime Minister. That'll give you the weight you need. You could also think of the Ministry of Finance. Has the committee considered that? The Ministry of Finance traverses several departments by tradition, because the finances are also such a component that comes back in all departments, just like ICT. Another possibility could be the Minister of the Interior. However, the Committee notes that Home Affairs could have played the role that BIT should have played, but it never did. The home affairs track record may not be good. Personally, I would find it very logical to hang it under Housing and National Service. I would particularly like to hear the reaction of the committee on this variant. After all, housing and the National Service are there for the State Service. I would like to hear the committee's reaction to these four tastes. I think that the alternative Living and Rijksdienst needs serious consideration. All the more so because General Affairs is a small ministry. There will always be a tendency to place other things in General Affairs that are also important. That is a kind of precedent. However, culture in the Netherlands is that we have strong ministries and that the Prime Minister is primarily among the equals. So I would like to hear the reaction of the committee. Then I come to talk about the knowledge of the government. In addition to a BIT, D66 would suggest that there is also a MIT, a Mobile ICT team. The Committee rightly notes that there is a lot of external hiring when a project needs to be supervised. There is not enough knowledge among government officials to do this properly. Our idea is to opt for a mobile ICT brigade instead of that external hire. This is a team of specialised government officials who can assist in various ministries at the time of a major project. I would like to hear the reaction of the committee. So these are people who are hired instead of outsiders to accompany a different ministry every time. It is a pool of expert officials that you can use anywhere in large ICT projects. The MIT is just an idea. Anyway, I thought, "Don't shoot" is always wrong. It seems to me a sensible addition to bring back the external hire a little bit more. This external hire sometimes happens even with the party carrying out the project. If I understood correctly, you brought in an organization to carry out a project and then you hired people from that same organization to accompany that project as an interim official. That seemed to me to be a very curious situation. That's why I thought we should do it differently. Let's have some kind of gideon gang in the government of smart ICT officials that can counter. That'll lower the dependency. It will also improve the government's grip on ICT. Knowledge and consciousness must also be raised. I totally agree with that. Mr Van der Linde of the VVD has already said some things about this. Of course, as an educational party, we are always in favour of better training people in the field of ICT. By the way, we ourselves are in the fortunate situation that we have Digital 66. D66 has a kind of theme group that, as far as I'm concerned, could be about integral BIT, but we should discuss that with each other. This is a club of people who advises me and other MPs on ICT issues. I propose that Digital 66 be hired every now and then for a small price to update all the parliamentary groups on ICT. I see that Mr Van der Linde is the first to bid. I'd say bring up your offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	What a generous offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	Since Mr Verhoeven already has such detailed ideas at this stage of the debate, he can also tell us whether Digital 66 is going to review my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, Digital 66 doesn't test any motions. Digital 66, however, can take part in the debate on motions. If it stays there, it's very good. If it is going to ban motions and amendments or advise them in such a negative way that democracy is affected, then Digital 66 will also have to be a little more cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for this state-law approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	You're welcome, I'll tell Mr. Van der Linde. I'm gonna go to a roundup. I come to the cost. The committee says that there is no overview of all the costs we incur with ICT projects. That explains the wide range of 1 to 5 billion. The committee is right to say that the dashboard is always green. I mean the public dashboard that keeps track of how big ICT projects are going. We can look at all that. If you have such a report in your hands and the dashboard is completely green, then there is something wrong with the external information, but also with the internal information. It is true that Mr Kohnstamm and Mr Zalm, the former rulers who, in my opinion, abolished the total list in 1995, said things about it during the hearings of the committee. How can the Committee take account of the comments made by these people in the proposal to bring the situation before 1995 back? I would like to hear the reaction of the committee. Then I'll come to the central control. I think it is a sensible choice by the committee not to come up with the plea that you hear very often, namely that there should be a minister of ICT. Fortunately, the committee did not propose this. The Committee rightly notes that ICT is everywhere. That means that you should not isolate it vertically, but integrate it horizontally. That is precisely the challenge we face today: you need to get enough grip on all the places where ICT plays a role. I think that is a very pleasant observation. However, the committee says that there should be better coordination and more central control. The national CIO must become stronger, but who should be the coordinating minister? I don't know exactly how the committee sees it. She says that there should be greater coordination, but does she mean, for example, the coordinating role of Minister Kamp in the area of regulation? Minister Kamp van Economische Zaken checks every bill on the changes it brings in terms of administrative burdens. Is that how coordination should take place in the cabinet? Does the committee want a coordinating executive who says: hey, this proposal has an ICT component, remember! Is that how the committee intended it? I've already mentioned the CIO Empire. He is now too limited in his role to be able to steer ICT in ministries. The database proposed by the committee seems to me to be a nice idea. I would just like to tell the committee that such a database in itself is another ICT project. Let us then make sure that it does not become another failed ICT project, otherwise we will cut ourselves in the finger. I still have a few questions about it. Can the committee indicate exactly what data should be collected in that database? The database should be used to detect failure and success patterns. Should an automated system be developed for this purpose? Does the database need to be redeveloped, or is it already on the shelf somewhere? The committee is right to point out that there is often something on the shelf that is being reordered. And my final question: should this database also lead to a fitting performance check, i.e. a check on a supplier's past? My final questions are about procurement and the formation of contracts. In this respect, too, the committee makes sensible recommendations. The Labour Party has just said that it thinks the recommendations are a bit predictable; it is important that we do so now in particular. That's right. We're gonna have to do it. That is why it is very good that the committee has put it together again. I would say: please walk into those open doors and let the committee be the watchdog that will make sure that we actually do all these logical things now. Let me mention a few: make very clear agreements in advance; keep the contract on the table during the process. It shouldn't be the case that the official top, once the contract is signed, goes back to its own room on the top floor and says, "guys, you go ahead and figure it out." I think that was a bit of how the committee said it has happened so far. Businesscase is done Kees, I believe was one of the slogans that the committee used a lot in this respect. That does not seem to me to be a good approach. The business justification needs to be improved on all fronts and it needs to be done in a much more professional way. I believe that the tender and market exploration are also a good point. The committee says you should cut up or unclutter assignments. This is something that is already covered, for example, by the Procurement Act. There is even a cluster ban in the Procurement Act. Has the committee seen that this cluster ban, which has only been in force for two years, has often not been applied to some of the ICT projects under investigation? Can the committee say anything about that? What does the Committee on European Procurement think in the light of its own opinions? If you look at a supplier's past, which seems to me to be right to do, what about the possibility that supplier has a learning ability? If a supplier has once done a project less well, it should not be the case in the eyes of D66 that he will be blacklisted and never again have the chance to bring in a government assignment. Preventing more work and an hour's bill, I just think it's wise. You can just say that in advance. Does the committee mean to stop an assignment that can be decided halfway through a project better halfway than to take the loss and say: it's not okay, we're quitting? Is that what the committee recommends? This means that you really get zero results every now and then halfway through a project at a high price. If you want to do that, you really need to have a solid position. In conclusion, I am very curious about the committee's answer to all these questions. I think that the committee has done an excellent job on a subject that has been far too under-explored, which has highlighted the Committee very clearly. These spotlights will ensure that many people involved will feel more able to guide the projects more clearly and better. I hope that this has awakened us and that this will lead to breakthroughs. I think we can use that 1 billion to 5 billion quite differently. In this sense, it is very useful that we should be able to have this debate with the committee. I hope that we will also be able to have a quick debate with the government on the committee's opinions so that not only the members of the Chamber will talk about this, but the cabinet will also attract the gauntlet and make improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the committee which has produced an intelligent, easy-to-read and very helpful report with its hard work. These compliments, of course, apply not only to Members of Parliament who sat on the committee, but also to official support. Thank you all for your work. May your work be a turning point in the way in which the government views its ICT and ICT projects. Not so long ago, a well-known professor of innovation and economics told me that he didn't believe that ICT had revolutionized the world. That was seven years ago, as I recall. I think the best man will have a different opinion by now. Those who look around must realise that ICT is not only no longer to be thought away in our daily lives, that ICT is not only seen, but also increasingly determines what we do and how we do it, but also that the end of the many changes that pass through and continue to come towards us is still far from being seen. You don't have to. Panta heri, the Greeks said: everything is flowing, everything is moving. It's always been that way, and it's always gonna be that way. It is precisely the rapidity, the realization of dreams and the creation of until recently unimaginable things, which in my view deserve the title of revolution. During the industrial revolution the machines took over from the human hands, now the computers take over for an important part of the human brain and much more. In order not to give too long a thought, I will take a bridge to work, but above all to the committee's how and why. Most citizens do know several examples of times when they were confronted with a digital government. What many citizens don't know, until they face problems, is how complex the reality behind the digital government really is. They do not know how difficult it is to make the systems of the Tax Administration work flawlessly, how complicated it is to design and operate a communication system for emergency and security services or how big the complications can be if an electronic patient file has to meet the highest requirements of security and privacy. However, the public sees and reads and hears about failing projects and millions that are being wasted. Then it is always a bit embarrassing when you, as a politician, pick up and read the paper from the doormat in the morning: 64 million here and 38 million there and that the counter is still ticking. The public sees, reads and hears this, like the politicians who, on the one hand, are the driving force behind the policy that creates the demand for ICT and, on the other hand, must be the controller who is assessing whether the work involved is being carried out properly. As has been said, the committee has done its job well. I am looking in the direction of the CDA Group, but her spokesman is now out of the Chamber. I am very pleased that the CDA and the SP have jointly taken the initiative to table the motion at the time that led to this investigation. Much of what the Committee has examined has already been considered critically. Moreover, the General Court has already issued very critical reports in 2007 and 2008. In 2007, for example, it concluded: "The main cause for the partial failure of ICT projects emerging from our research is that ICT projects by the government are often too ambitious and too complex due to the combination of political, organisational and technical factors. In these too complex projects there is no balance between ambition, available people, resources and time. The House of Representatives does not always receive the information it needs to carry out these tasks. We are convinced that ministers have the key to breaking the spiral in which projects become too complex. Our recommendations are intended to strengthen the position of ministers in this field of forces." The underlying idea is that, if a minister "has his mind in order," he can better resist the dynamics in which an ICT project is becoming increasingly ambitious. We regard these recommendations as "be realistic in your ambition and ensure that you have control over your ICT projects"; a farmers' understanding that this committee undoubtedly agrees with. In 2008, the Court of Auditors wrote: "Good governance is needed to achieve realistic ambitions and to control ICT projects." A truth like a cow. "This control must be professionalised in order to be a full partner in the force field as described in Part A." That's the 2007 investigation. "A minimum set of information is needed to gain insight into the progress of an ICT project and to be able to steer the project. Our research also shows that the control of information provision can be organised differently, ranging from organization to organisation and from project to project. In our opinion, the following recommendations can be taken up relatively quickly: provide reliable data on time, size, available people and costs, make agreements with the House of Representatives on the minimum set of data required by the House of Representatives for informed decision-making, both prior and during the project, establishes portfolio management. "This is also reflected in the report of the Committee of Inquiry and as a final recommendation "Try to learn from the experiences of others." You could actually make these recommendations apply to life. Then there is another recommendation for the Minister of the Interior: "Research into how to promote learning from each other." Is this valuable? Certainly, but with what we know now, this was not decisive, not concrete enough and not profound enough. That is why I welcome the rather harsh conclusions of this committee. It might also be appropriate for the chairman of this committee to reply in clear terms to what is happening. It is also appropriate for the Vice-President of the committee and probably even for all the members of the committee, but there is no doubt that the conclusions and recommendations of this committee leave nothing to be desired. They're hard-on, and as far as I'm concerned, they're all cutting wood. This committee has asked for and reasoned ahead, so that a truly workable solution has been put on the table. In my view, this has revealed the essence of the various problems. The committee has done the work for us and I do not need to do that again with an analysis of the problem; it is clear. I found the report deafening here and there, as is often the case with parliamentary investigations and surveys. It's very educational. For the SP Group, all conclusions and recommendations are worthy of support and acceptance. The following matters particularly appeal to me: to make one minister responsible for ICT. I would prefer the abbreviation "ICT" to be placed in the name of the Ministry. Next, the establishment of a temporary temporary BIT under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the education of civil servants as well as the Chamber, the making of an overall overview of the costs of ICT, including in projects and keeping this very sharp and continuous, and finally the strengthening of the position of the CIO Empire, more powers for these people and perseverance power.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	Maybe I misunderstand. It seemed as if Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP advocated a Ministry of ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	That can't be a surprise for Mr Verhoeven, can it? I assume that he also looks on the Internet and I see that I have argued for this not so long ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	I know, I look on the Internet very often and certainly at the initiatives of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	However, I believe that the committee is different in its analysis and does not say that there should be a Ministry of ICT. However, Mrs Gesthuizen just said that she would follow almost all the committee's recommendations. I'm just looking for the connection between her choices and those of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Verhoeven has listened and read very carefully. There is indeed some light in this. However, I agree, I repeat, with all the recommendations. As far as I'm concerned, none of them go too far. On a few pieces I might want to go a very small step further. There's still something to be desired. I'll get to that in a minute, when I ask the committee. There are still some things that need to be looked at more closely. There's got to be some follow-up for that. That does not necessarily have to be done in committee. The Minister for Housing and National Service, the Minister for BZK or the Chamber itself can also take this up. A number of things still need to be looked into. However, I do wonder whether there is a great deal of light between my wish and what the committee wants. If you make one minister responsible for government ICT, you're already a long way off. Mr Verhoeven said in his own contribution that ICT is everywhere. Trade is also everywhere and yet we have a Minister for Foreign Trade and a Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for the trading book. Infrastructure is everywhere, too. The question is whether the theme is large enough and important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr Verhoeven, two questions have already been raised on this subject. Perhaps you can interrupt at the end of Mrs Gesthuizen's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm fine with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	Very well, thank you. What should not be overlooked is that in the meantime several people have found that a BIT-like organisational structure should have already existed at the Ministry of the Interior. This structure should have been operational for years. That was the case on paper, but in practice it was not the case at all. I share the committee chairman's conclusion that this is an additional reason to take an emergency grip and thus try to get things in order and under control. I have a number of questions for the committee. I will be happy to deliver them in writing if the committee needs them. I have already asked the committee in writing which organisation and which organisation cannot serve as an example for the BIT. In its written reply, the Committee says that it is best to compare itself with the Delta Commissioner in terms of powers. His role and powers are laid down in the Delta Act. Does this mean that the functioning of the Delta Commissioner and the position he takes should be examples of what the BIT should look like? I'd like to know more about that. Which organisation should not serve as an example? I've already challenged the committee to answer this. The committee is quite clear: it does not want a large and bureaucratic organisation. Which way should we at least not go? The BIT may request documents on its own initiative during the implementation phase. Is this legal? The committee has already said that the BIT should be legally anchored as far as it is concerned. I assume that the right to information is therefore enshrined in law. Which organisations, both public and private, should respond to a legally-based request from the BIT? I have not been able to read the answer to this question in the written reply. I would like to have an answer to this. I do not agree with the committee's conclusion that BIT should not carry out an unsolicited viewing consultation at the later tendering stage. The Committee writes in its written reply that it considers that there should be no obligation for a viewing consultation at this tendering stage. I asked what would be against it. Why not organize it so that the BIT can do so at some point unsolicited? I'd be happy to be convinced, but I'd like to know why that would be a bad idea. Is there no estimate at all of savings that can be achieved by removing organisational elements? The committee clearly refers to this: it will probably be possible to delete spaghetti, but we do not yet know exactly where and, frankly, we do not know how much that could be. I would like to know whether the committee, which has spoken with so many experts, could make an estimate of the cost savings that this could bring. A number of colleagues have already asked about the CIO Empire. What exactly should the strengthening of the position of the CIO Empire look like? I would like to receive a more detailed explanation from the committee. In what way is it possible, in the Committee's view, to spread risks more widely? On the one hand, the Chamber is to blame; on the other hand, we have seen that there is a culture in the business community, perhaps also stirred up by the lowest price contracting from politics, in which people think: if we can make money with it, it is actually good. How can we ensure that the common interest is the guiding principle when public authorities and businesses have to work together on ICT projects? Could this be achieved through more public-private partnerships, for example? If so, what good examples can be given? Does the committee have any insight into that? If not, why not? I am therefore concerned with the question of how clients and contractors can jointly bear responsibility. Why doesn't the committee choose a Ministry of ICT? Finally, I would like to make a few comments that are contained in the iBestuur magazine. One of the most striking articles in this edition says that the government needs 1,000 ICTs. There is written about a huge number of vacancies. To be honest, I see a solution to two things: for the fact that there is now a shortage of sufficiently qualified, good people in the government and for the fact that these people may be a little too expensive now. In my opinion, the VVD spokesperson made it very clear that hiring sufficiently well qualified people has a price tag. That's right. If you see what the market salaries are basically, it's a bitter pill. We may not get the very best people, but yes, of course you can influence that with a larger offer. Of course, that's how the market works. If you make sure that there is sufficient supply, it could have a moderate effect on the price. The question I would like to put to the committee is: should the minister, should the cabinet not simply draw up a very good plan of action to ensure that enough people are trained and that they are properly trained?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to refer to what Mrs Gesthuizen has just said. I just got a little triggered by the VVD spokesperson. He said you'd have to be above the Standards Act top incomes to bring in good staff. I doubt that. I think if you want to bring in good people, you have to make sure you offer a good work environment. I think working for the government is something you can be proud of. I didn't really want to have this discussion here, but I'm going to make this point anyway. Now let's look at how we can make ICT an attractive subject again, especially in the government. Let us not look at payments all the time. We should not let ourselves be talked into this in the words of Mrs van Gesthuizen, who said that we should pay more because otherwise it would not be market-based. I doubt that. So I ask the SP to join us in this. We should not get carried away in the story that we have to sit above the Standards Act top incomes to get good staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mrs Gesthuizen is in any case in need of saying that Mrs Oosenbrug has not heard that the SP is here advocating payouts above the norming top income law of anyone working for the government. She'll never hear that from the SP. Then I will get straightaway with the roe in my group. I am not in favour of it myself. I said there's a huge demand for good ICTs in the government. I think the knife cuts both ways when the government makes serious efforts to train enough people properly. For example, the government can do this by educating its own people, the people it already employs. You do not necessarily have to offer a state education; you can make sure that you train your own people well. If demand is the same, but the supply is greater because more good people are available, in my view this has a dampening effect on the price. I'd like to give that to the Cabinet. I wonder what the committee thinks about that. Does she think that there should be a clear plan of action in the Empire to ensure that training is actually taken up?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	At the risk of it becoming too fundamental a discussion about the organisation of the government, I would like to speak with Mrs Gesthuizen about the Ministry of ICT. I think it is very important to clarify that. There are two options. In the first option you see ICT as something that is handled independently by all ministries. It is a project that is drawn by the relevant ministry and coordinated by a minister who crosses things in a horizontal way, as the Minister for Economic Affairs does by rules. In the second option you create a vertical tower where you put a ministry that will do all ICT projects. Where does Mrs. Gesthuizen stand in those two extremes? I would like to know, because otherwise we are going to mix things up and it seems like we are all in agreement, when it turns out we are not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	I will make sure that in the end it does not seem like we are all in agreement. There is some light between what the committee recommends and what I find. I think the main difference is that yesterday I looked into it well again in the following. The committee proposes to make one ruler responsible for all government ICTs, while I would think it would be a good idea to include ICTs in the name of a ministry, to illustrate the importance of ICTs. The same thing happened to innovation a while ago. Moreover, we also find innovation everywhere covered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which was then called the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. Not for nothing have I said that in my opinion there is an ICT revolution going on. It has not just started; it has been going on for quite a few years and it will continue for a while. I believe that this deserves the highest level of preparedness, not only in the Chamber, but also in the way in which we have been pushed into the facts by the committee, as well as in many other areas. I think it is important enough for the cabinet to give a great deal of weight to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	I agree with Mrs Gesthuizen. I am concerned that, in addition to a recommendation on cultural change, the committee's report makes many organisational recommendations to tighten up the logistics of ICT. We also have the digital government, but that is quite different from ICT projects. The digital government belongs to another minister, the Minister of the Interior. The terms should not get too mixed up; I warn against that. I believe that Mrs Gesthuizen and I are in line with the importance of ICT. The point is that the committee strongly advises on the organisation of ICT. If Mrs Gesthuizen says that there is a little bit of light in between and that we simply have to put the term in the name of a ministry, then I wonder if we have been helped with that. In my view, we must give fundamental consideration to the way in which we can coordinate all projects properly in all ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	I agree. Of course, the committee does not say for nothing that there should be a BIT, which should fall under the responsibility of a certain ministry. The BIT will have to give its opinion on projects of the ministries of VWS, OCW and Infrastructure and Environment and the Committee on Economic Affairs. This is done under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, if it is up to the committee. Mr Verhoeven speaks of an ivory tower, but I do not think anyone wants anything like that. In the end, someone must be responsible, in this case the only person in this country who really has perseverance, namely the Prime Minister. Then you'll have a perseverance force and therefore a concentration of that power. I call that not ivory tower, but pointing out someone who will have the ultimate responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	Obviously. Mr Van der Linde, you obviously do not think it is clear. Or do you have another topic that you would like to address?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would like to comment on the career prospects of ICTs in the government. I am glad that Mrs Gesthuizen relates the salaries to scarcity, supply and demand and the cow market. That's a huge win.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	About what, I wonder.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	Let us not have two debates. Mr Van der Linde had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	Some market forces are always beautiful. But now the question. There is no logical career path for an ICT worker who is going to work in the government. That is there for the lower scales, but growing to the scales 15, 16, 17 or 18 is in fact not in it. Let me say this separately from the discussion on the Top Income Standards Act, because we certainly will not agree on that. How can we ensure that people stay with the government and that the government becomes an attractive employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	I think that Mrs Oostenbrug, Mr Van der Linde and I agree on this. However, I would like to remain top incomes within the Wet norming; I can give that to Mr Van der Linde on a note. I agree with him and Mrs Oosenbrug that working in the government is challenging and fun "fun" is perhaps a somewhat lame term and that you should be able to earn a good living with it. I would say: let us pass on Mr Van der Linde's question with mine. I asked for a view from the committee on whether there should be a plan of action from the Minister for Housing and National Service. The question is whether good training for people should be combined with career planning, with opportunities for a career path for people who go to work in the government and engage in ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. The month of December is clearly the month of the parliamentary committees. Last week, the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations was still here and now it is up to the temporary committee on ICT projects in the government. This committee has also done very important work. Good and thorough research has been done into the failure of the government in ICT projects. The PVV Group, too, would of course like to thank the committee very much for that. That thanks goes for the support staff, of course. It's not nothing the committee has stumbled upon. The abuses in the Empire surrounding ICT projects are downright shocking. And of course, the huge waste of taxpayers' money is. As Professor of Policy Informatics Hans Mulder of the University of Antwerp pointed out at the very first hearing, the government loses 4 to 5 billion euros annually due to failed ICT projects. Of course, an amount of EUR 4 to 5 billion in tax money that goes up in smoke a year is nothing less than disastrous. The hardworking Dutchman does not deserve this and because of this stupidity works for the government for a large part for nothing so hard. That is unacceptable in one word. The PVV therefore wants to start with the most important question: who can we actually hold politically responsible for this? Who can we address to this huge drama, to throw away taxpayers' money? We would like to see full clarity on this point. According to the PVV, this clarity is not yet offered in the committee report. The money bounce itself is, of course, bad enough, but hasn't politics also just been guilty of deception? Of course, the word 'deception' sounds very heavy, but I can link it to a very concrete example. Back in 2012, Minister Donner presented the so-called ICT dashboard. This gave figures to ICT projects. The reconstruction of the municipal basic administration received a 10. On a scale of 1 to 10! So the project got the most perfect score. In reality, however, this system failed on all fronts that you can imagine. So again the question: does the committee think that this has actually been misled? I have now mentioned one failed ICT project, but the list of failures and dramas is quite infinite. Sometimes that even affects the safety of the Dutch citizen. See the problems with the C2000 system! Does the committee also know how serious the security risks were due to the failure of this particular system? Are those risks completely out of the world now? The committee has made a very sharp analysis of the problems, but I would also like to ask whether all these problems are not directly related to a much too cumbersome, far too complex and far too bureaucratic government. The government is so inconvenient that you can ask yourself whether it can be automated at all. Shouldn't we be working towards a heavily thinned government? Then, of course, automation projects are much better adapted. Moreover, a smaller government simply has fewer departments, fewer processes and fewer tasks and therefore by definition a smaller automation need and thus a much less chance of problems. Perhaps the committee could address that particular point. It is also bad that all problems are to a large extent reduced to pure incompetence in government, pure amateurism and ignorance. What does that say about the quality of managers in government and personnel policy? What changes must be made within ministries in order to function much better? I know this is gonna provoke a long answer, but I'm already satisfied with some kind of top five. Shouldn't ignorant officials and managers, for example, be replaced? This ill-functioning government is also evident from the lack of control. Projects could run into the soup again and again without intervention. The financial side was also chaos. The same applies to the messy procurement routes. In short, the committee gives a devastating picture of the situation in the government. That's obvious. It is also clear that it is going to be a great deal of work to do this all right, but we need to get started on that very quickly. In this context, recommendations have been made by the committee which the PVV endorses and therefore agrees with. For example, it is very important that there be an efficient watchdog, referred to by the committee as the ICT test. My colleagues have already mentioned this. This agency must be as independent as possible. Therefore, the PVV agrees with the positioning of this office under General Affairs. The problems are big enough for it. That also gives the bureau the weight it deserves. So let us bet on that. Finally, I have a question about the external hiring of experts. That costs as much as a billion dollars a year. If you see how little quality we've actually gotten back for that, that huge release doesn't exactly cheer the PVV. How does the committee view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. ICT and government. Is it ever gonna be okay between those two? The committee makes no mistake about that. ICT and government will never work out, unless the committee's recommendations are fully taken on board. Perfection doesn't exist in this world, but then it can at least be avoided what seems to be happening in the government, resulting in a seemingly bottomless ICT fault well, where donkeys bump into the same stone several times. The other day I heard a shocking example of this: an official who had left a reasonable ICT chaos with the Defense Department, who would have been turned off and now or not posted to the NZa. That is so far, but the story goes that he has become responsible for ICT there! That can't be true! That can't be true! I'd like a response from the committee. The CDA Group, together with the SP, has been at the root of this parliamentary investigation. The reports on the waste of billions of failed ICT projects in the government are not new. The system is not working, the costs are rising, or the costs are rising and the system is still not working. It is therefore a good thing that the temporary committee has launched seven ICT projects. Just by putting these different projects together, you can see if there are any patterns to discover. In general consultation on ICT projects with the public authorities on 16 February 2011, the CDA Group has already said that ICT is too important in government to be left to ICT users alone. If ICT is left to the public authorities, ICTs will no longer be asked questions. Why are we doing this? Who are we doing this for? Why don't we stop? That is a question that could have been asked at some point. Now we're starting too fast. It is so striking in the report: business case ready Kees. I loved it, because it reflects very nicely how things go and how things go wrong. The CDA Group is in favour of asking these questions and of continuing to ask them regularly. That is why the CDA Group wholeheartedly supports the recommendations made by the committee. Otherwise, we can set up the chairs for the Committee of Inquiry into ICT projects at the government in a year or so. The multi-scheme system at the Social Insurance Bank has failed. The ICT project for the collection of taxes and the payment of surcharges by the Tax Administration has been discontinued. Each department seems to have its own ICT debacle. I refer to SPEER at the Ministry of Defence, the integrated criminal justice process of the Ministry of Security and Justice, the new waterboard tax system and the development of the DigiD card by the Ministry of the Interior. As a spokesman, I will not be blamed for drawing attention to the problems that are currently arising in the Social Insurance Bank with the payment of pgb. I'm looking at the chairman; she knows what I'm talking about. It has major consequences for vulnerable people, who will be unable to pay their bills, and therefore for caregivers. The reason for this is to implement all kinds of policies too quickly, without considering what the ICT implications are. I can't make it prettier. So far it has not been possible to control the ICT projects in the government: not by the political and administrative leadership of the departments and not by the Chamber. I'll come back to that later. That is why the CDA Group supports the committee's main recommendation. This is the establishment of a temporary ICT authority: the ICT Examination Office, BIT. In this context, the plea for the use of farmers' understanding particularly appeals to us. In order to underline the urgency and breadth of the problem, the BIT should be directly covered by the Prime Minister. Only in this way can the BIT act independently and authoritatively at the same time.Of course, everyone involved in ICT projects must follow the BIT rules. On page 10 they are nicely listed and they are worked out in chapter 6. Is there going to be a Law BIT along the lines of the US? I'd like to get a response to that. The CDA Group would like to know from the committee how long the various recommendations can and should be implemented. Culture and mentality change are long-term processes. However, the problem is urgent, even if it was only in the financial field. How does the committee see that? How is the ICT spaghetti, which is so beautifully depicted on the front of the report, going to be addressed in the various ministries? All kinds of systems still appear to be operational from afar for ICT as we know them today. I have read the correct comments that if nothing happens there, it will explode at some point. The committee also cracks hard notes about the Chamber itself. Let me say first of all that the Chamber has set up this committee. In addition, I regularly read in the committee's final report that the government has not provided sufficient information to the Chamber. How can the Court get a better grip on ICT projects? How can the Chamber ask the right questions about progress? How can the Room keep distance? After all, you should not sit on the client's seat, but remain critically involved. How does the Committee view the role of BIT in this respect? The CDA Group also considers it interesting to include in the Rules of Procedure that proposals may be examined by the BIT at the request of a member of the Parliament. But how do you do this without becoming a political nuisance? I am a little less concerned about the problems of democracy. Democracy, as far as I am concerned, is doing something other than putting forward proposals and seeking a majority, when you could have known in advance that it would go wrong in the ICT field. Is it not a good idea, if we organise this with each other, to allow the democratic process to go ahead, and then, in the implementation of adopted motions by the government, to look again at whether ICT technology is technically feasible? The committee deliberately did not include the privacy and security aspects in the research questions. That is sensible when it comes to limiting research. What possibility does the committee see of involving these issues in the debate on ICT projects in the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	I think we are all struggling a bit with the issue of the influence of BIT on the decision-making process here. Let me try by asking Mrs Keijzer for a more precise explanation. She says she's not so worried about democracy. But you could also say that BIT is a form of aristocracy; a small group of wise men determines whether or not something is wise. Can Mrs Keijzer go into the field of tension that I do see?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	You can look at it that way, but you can look at it differently. We also have Actal, an independent body that checks the control pressure. Actal gives advice and then it is weighted. I think you should look at an ICT test on proposals made by the Chamber in the same way, and also at proposals made by the government. You might wonder if that's always independent. If we take the report seriously and if we are really worried about those 1.5 or 9 billion that are mentioned in it and that are being pushed away by wrong ICT projects, then we must want to have this discussion and the Chamber must also be prepared to hold a mirror to itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	I totally agree with that. Mrs Keijzer knows how to bring it up with these large sums and show it again from the report. With me, however, thinking does not stop with such a report. The committee nodded when Mrs Keijzer said it should be regulatory advice. Actal also gives advice. However, I feel that the committee is looking for something heavier than Actal. I'd like to hear that from the committee tomorrow. If they find Actal the level of their weight, I just didn't read the report properly. However, I think they want to rig up a heavier vehicle, and I understand that. We must continue to think about democracy, because the price tag attached to democracy is worth more than 5 billion. I just want to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	No, that wasn't a question. I look forward to the committee's response to this issue. It is one of the main issues in this report. I will continue with my speech. Society has become increasingly dependent on ICT systems. Everyone knows that in everyday life. We also notice this in our daily work in the Chamber. There is complete panic when the e-mail is out, just to give a very practical example. I hear Mr Gesthuizen say that gives peace. Well, that's one way of looking at it. At the same time, I think we are thinking: how is this going to go on today? I think it is a good example of what this looks like in practice. The Committee concludes that the problem of managing ICT projects is so large and structural that drastic measures must now be taken. The CDA Group wholeheartedly supports this call. This is not just about saving between EUR 1 and EUR 5 billion a year, but it is much more than well taken into account. It is primarily about the functioning of ICT systems on which we have all become dependent. The committee has given us a strong boost to this. I like to end as the last speaker by thanking the committee and paying tribute to the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	I thank the speakers for their input. We came here at the end of the first term of office. The committee's response will take place in the first period tomorrow afternoon. The President informed me that answers to technical questions could be sent to the speakers in writing before the start. As you have all kept the speaking time fairly limited, we are suspending for lunch rather long.
