ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to the First Chamber. And you know what I miss? Last year you also had an emergency story with us in the First Chamber. Then you brought pie or currant bread. I miss that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	It'll be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Okay, thank you. We've already got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we are discussing the possibilities of responsible growth in dairy farming. We read and hear from time to time that many dairy farmers struggle with low milk prices and have animals slaughtered. Can the Secretary of State comment on these at first sight contradictory developments? The reason for the legislative proposal is the end of milk regulation in Europe; the milk quota disappears. In fact, limiting milk production in Europe is strange in view of the fact that world-wide demand for dairy products has increased, partly as a result of the well-being of other countries too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mrs Dupuis and Mr Hermans, could you please keep your voice down?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	I think Mr Hermans is interested in the development of dairy farming; he would like to tell Mrs Dupuis that he is so interested. A number of "real" agricultural countries, such as Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands, see additional opportunities for growth and exports. Of course, this must be done responsibly, as the name of the bill says. It is in the formulation of the conditions relating to the Nitrates Directive and the Fertiliser Act. The bill was accepted on 25 November 2014 in the Lower House. We agree with all the speakers after me, who may have noticed that we have had to work quickly. Emergency breaks the law. Following the technical briefing of the officials and after the State Secretary's explanatory statement, the CDA itself agreed to this urgent procedure in order not to jeopardise the derogation from Brussels. That is not so much because we are 100% convinced that this derogation will be put at risk immediately if we are too late, but from the well-known precautionary principle. Many parties opposed to the rapid procedure have convinced me that the precautionary principle is very often a very good position. The State Secretary's replies show that a number of countries have been granted derogations from the Nitrates Directive, including real dairy countries in North-West Europe, such as Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands. The answers also show that 25% of our country's exports already go to countries outside the EU. We think that's a great achievement. We fully agree with the answers given by the Secretary of State to questions put by Mr Reuten van de SP aimed at the idea that we should adapt milk production to our own consumption. However, we believe that there are always countries that can grow better in terms of climate or otherwise particular products. For our country, these include dairy products. We must take advantage of this, partly in the interests of prosperity and employment. The nationalist view of the SP means that we can only drink milk, the Italians only wine and the Brazilians only rum and coffee. This does not seem to us to be equally healthy for all the inhabitants of these countries. Nor is it conducive to the development of prosperity and employment. On the basis of this self-sufficiency principle, I assume that the SP is an extreme supporter of shale gas extraction. It has nothing to do with this subject, but the reasoning seemed logical to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	If you make a caricature of your opponent to hide your own weak story, Mr. Terpstra should see it. There are, however, other considerations, namely those of the environment in this case. Senator Terpstra knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	I broadly agree with Mr Reuten, except, of course, with his remark that my story would be weak. I also understand that Mr Reuten must also weigh up the employment situation in the agricultural sector, and I would like to add this restriction to the environment. With him, the employment rate is already going down pretty quickly. Responsible growth requires progress in the further development of the transport track. Despite the fact that everyone in this Chamber knows what this means, I would like to point out that this means limiting phosphate in animal feed and increasing manure processing capacity. We assume that the Secretary of State will monitor these developments closely and keep us regularly informed. Two amendments were adopted during the debate in the House of Representatives. An amendment concerned ground boundness. In good time we have received the main letter from the Secretary of State. In view of our party's position of principle, we attach great importance to consultation with the sector and other stakeholders. The main letter describes three systems. We await the discussion with the sector on this issue. However, we would like to point out in advance that in System 2 the number of animals is necessarily declining. In view of the subject matter of the law responsible growth, this alternative appears to us as destructive. How does the Secretary of State explain that a law on responsible growth can propose a system at AMvB that leads to less growth, to fewer animals? With regard to consultation with all stakeholders, we would like to make a general comment. Many environmental and nature organisations participate in the consultation with a lot of taxpayers' subsidies, but without any risk. On the other hand, farmers bear a great deal of risk, as is shown above all by systematic 2. There are fewer animals and less income, and therefore perhaps fewer farmers. The latter is not in the text, but I will add it myself. How does the Secretary of State appreciate these clear differences in the negotiating position? And how does the Secretary of State take this into account? Finally, I would like to draw attention to some amendments in the House of Representatives, although rejected. Fortunately, in the main letter, the Secretary of State promised to take into account entrepreneurs who have already made investments in the period after 2013, the date in the law, and have thereby come into trouble, the so-called bottlenecks regime. We think that is a good thing. The point of manure processing by the neighbours, for example by a farmer, is not yet fully clear to us. At first glance, that seems to us to be a solution that is good for all parties. How does the Secretary of State view this? As always, we await the answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. These are hectic times for the legislature, as witnessed by the many laws which need parliamentary approval before the turn of the year. The current Act responsible growth dairy farming certainly belongs in this row. In any event, the advantage of undergoing such a procedure is that it may create some feeling for the position of farmers: that of hunted game. There seems to be no end to the suffocating complexity of rules, bureaucracy, increase in charges and rising operating costs. The bill also contributes to the latter. All good intentions for humans, animals and the environment do not change the fact that there must be an end to the trail of unbridled public intervention that keeps the agricultural sector in check. The continuity of business in the agricultural sector is frustrated by constantly changing rules and regulations. Like any sector in our economy, the agricultural sector also needs longer-term security. Only in this way can you make responsible investments and you know whether innovations are profitable. This also applies to innovations for health, well-being and the environment. The regulation of a sector by legislation is not a problem, nor does it require substantial investment. It is a problem, however, that the bureaucratic straitjacket is being tightened up and constantly changed. The rack's gonna come out sometime. I have already argued during the debate on the PAS that it would be much simpler, more effective and more efficient to bring desirable innovative measures into line with natural development in the agricultural sector, the increase in scale. If you do have to build, this is the time when subsequent innovative investments need to be made. Three quarters of farmers have no successor. The size of the company will be three times the size of the company over a generation. The more regulation there is, the faster this process goes by. In this respect, the bureaucratic approach advocated by the left-wing political party is contrary to the objective of small-scale and natural farming, which is also desired there. Each rule forces investment and each investment requires a certain scale. Objectives could be achieved much more easily in the sphere of public health, animal welfare and the environment, if they were steered and adapted to something that is already happening, namely the scaling-up in agriculture. Demonizing this testifies to an irrational and reactive reflex, one that flees from facts and seeks its salvation in a romantic dream. The PAS is a regular flight, the animal rights bear witness to this and today we are again talking about additional rules, even now in addition to the obligation to deal with manure. Moreover, the fact that the dairy farming law contributes to the control of phosphate use in the agricultural sector is a glimmer of light in this mess. It is essential to control phosphate use, given the finite availability and irreplaceability of this mineral. I already thought at a time when the legislation on compulsory manure treatment was being examined that it would have taken an adequate measure to control phosphate use in the agricultural sector. However, it appears that the entire livestock sector is being buried under a second set of rules: animal rights in the pig and poultry sector, and land-related to dairy farming. For the VVD group that is another choice between evil and worse. Worse are animal rights, so ground bound. Apart from bureaucracy, both types of measures have a cost increase effect. The acquisition of animal rights has its price and the necessary acquisition of land boosts the land price. These costs have a negative impact on the capacity of farmers to invest in legally imposed or market-demanded targets. The VVD Group sees greater benefit in more effective measures for which the sector is already ready: the cattle feed track, the loop guide and management optimization. It is clear from the VVD Group that something needs to be done on the instructions of the European Commission. The risk of losing the derogation is far too great. That is why the VVD Group is necessarily in favour of the proposal before us. However, this group would like to point out that the substantively critical debate on this approach has been postponed until the examination of the AMvB. Does the Secretary of State consider it conceivable that this double standard, i.e. compulsory manure treatment alongside animal rights and soil bindings, should be abolished again and compulsory manure treatment sufficient? I would like to hear her comments on this. I'm going back to this bill. The most crucial concept in this law is that of substance, in this case the legal title required for that purpose. Land in ordinary property is not the problem. The title is clear and the long-term power of decision is assured. The same applies to long-term leases. Later become short-term leases, this in connection with an insured decision related to the making of investments. The largest bottleneck is the many agreements around the use of soil or crop on stem, such as grass or maize. In mixed areas in particular, there is a multitude of agreements between dairy farmers and farmers, as well as with landowners who have stopped farming but keep their land in their possession and make it short-term available to farmers. It is therefore a question of the difficult relationship between the actual use of land and the legally insured decision-making power. Many of these exchanges take place in cycle activities and are very beneficial for maintaining soil fertility in arable crops. Wouldn't it be tragic if this kind of smooth win-win situation got frustrated by this law? In other words, how should all these cases be brought under ground without encountering excessive red tape? Is there anything to be done about this in the announced AMvB? In any case, the notary must be prevented from becoming the great profiteer of this law. Will the Secretary of State make it clear once again how she wishes to see the power of decision in the field of rental, rental and use law legally regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr Schaap complains about the red tape. He says, "Let the sector take care of it for itself, because he's coming a long way. How does Mr Schaap look at the fact that, for example, LTO Netherlands says that up to 40% of manure is processed illegally and fraudulently? How can you say that you're going to restrict bureaucracy a little bit by letting the sector do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	I thought we were talking about a different subject than the manure disposal. I just told you, I'm not against regulation at all. However, I am in favour of a fairly constant factor in that regulation, so that you know what you are up to for a longer period of time. Now the rules are tumbling all over each other, so the sector doesn't know what it's up to. That's my problem. We dealt with the Fertilizers Act here. That was the time to talk about things like this. You'll think, "We're done." Farmers are forced to strike a balance in the manure dossier. Then all of a sudden animal rights come, and now the ground bondage again. I have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	I understand. Surely it is clear that ground-boundness is also extremely suitable for fraud? That land could be a long way from your farm. The large transport of manure from your farm to the ground that you've rented very far away, isn't there any way to control it? How does Mr Schaap look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	Under this law, I do not think that is a theme. Another time we can discuss this quietly. I also believe, of course, that fraud should be dealt with. That's what LTO Nederland thinks. That's what every normal farmer thinks. The idea of something for this is excellent. Nor will you hear me about enforcement activities. I was talking about the legal arrangement of those short-term agreements. In the reply, the State Secretary states that the mere fact that a farmer takes up roughage and sells manure to a farmer is not sufficient to talk about land in his own use. How does it want such a commitment to be arranged? Another problem is that short-term agreements can be an uncertain factor in terms of longer-term continuity. This may hinder investment linked to the scaling-up of a dairy farm. Does the Secretary of State wish to address the dilemma that short-term decision-making power poses? This situation may occur frequently. The VVD Group wishes to point out that the land market is not very dynamic at the moment and that it will often be difficult to acquire additional land in ownership or long-term leases. Owners may be more likely to turn to short-term agreements. In the letter of 12 December 2013, the Secretary of State promised the Chamber a bottleneck scheme for companies that have developed in accordance with the legislation, including manure treatment. What will this arrangement look like and can it also apply to new problems? Is it also conceivable that the development area of dairy farming for phosphate will be bought off by other livestock sectors and vice versa? I would like to mention a few more issues relating to the problem before us. It has not escaped the attention of the VVD Group that in the House of Representatives there has been a fairly definite talk of compulsory grazing of dairy cows outside winter time. I am completely unaware of how such an obligation should be translated into legal texts and how such a coercive measure should be implemented and enforced without frictions. There are dairy farmers who do not have sufficient pasture land in the immediate vicinity of a usually. In addition, a hard grazing obligation under wet conditions and high temperatures does not benefit dairy cows either. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with this? Does she agree that there are hardly any problems and that this issue should be left to private initiative? In the reply, the State Secretary states that the voluntary grazing should also contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the present legislative proposal and to the objective of manure policy. This connection escapes me once and for all. On the contrary, grazing leads to a less effective use of manure, as well as to a decreasing control of ammonia emissions. Will the Secretary of State undertake to decouple grazing from manure policy and leave its regulation entirely to private initiatives? The covenant of pasture is an adequate basis for such an objective, isn't it? That doesn't fit in with government interference, does it? The discussions surrounding the meadows are not separate from another movement that can just go crazy in a political hype: the obligation to plant shady trees on meadows to provide the dairy with shade at high temperatures. In addition, it is acknowledged that cows certainly do not feel optimal at high temperatures. But why, under such circumstances, wouldn't there be a shadow in the stable? If dairy cows, even if they are not a productive species, are forced to remain under trees, dangerous cesspools will develop with a high infection pressure for the animals. I assume that the Secretary of State does not include such initiatives in her administrative responsibility? In the response she refers to the Animal Law and leaves it to the private initiative on how to provide sufficient shelter for animals under threatening circumstances. Will it undertake to leave it to the farmers themselves to implement it? Then one final comment. Much of what needs to be regulated in this legislative proposal needs to come back to the promised, heavily predicated AMvB. The main note does not yet provide any point of reference for this further arrangement. This means that the present legislative proposal actually contains little more than the principle of ground-boundity. In doing so, the European Commission must be satisfied and the Netherlands must retain the current derogation. However, for the implementation of the law in dairy farming, this bill hardly gives direction and is therefore waiting for the AMvB itself. Will the Secretary of State undertake to offer this AMvB to the Chambers as soon as possible? And will she also promise not to anticipate this AMvB until so long before its implementation? The VVD Group awaits the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	I give the floor to Mr Van Zandbrink, who is making his maiden speech today.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. For me, the law on responsible growth in dairy farming is not just a law. I grew up on my parents' dairy farm. The possible introduction of a milk quota has given a lot of discussion at the kitchen table at home at that time. It is therefore very special for me to take part again 30 to 35 years later in a discussion and to debate the consequences of the end of quoting. This time it is at another table, namely that of the Senate. During those 30 to 35 years, much has changed, not only in dairy farming itself, but also in its surroundings. This is reflected in the content and structure of the legislative proposal now before us. But first, I'm going back to the beginning of the eighties. The superlevy was a shock to dairy farming. In the meantime, we can see that this rule has proved to be very effective. There are no more butter mountains and milk lakes. In the meantime, however, many sandwiches have been made in dairy farming. There is still a strong sector and dairy exports are growing. The ex-ante evaluation of the bill shows that in the coming years, when it comes to the number of cows, an increase of 9% is expected. Moreover, the total number of cows remains below the number prior to the superlevy. The members of the PvdA Group would like to contribute to enabling this sector to grow, especially because of its impact on employment. I come to my first question to the Secretary of State, even though this aspect of employment is hardly mentioned in the documents before us. What are the effects of growth on employment in the Netherlands? This concerns not only the primary sector, but also the processing and all the sectors around it. We can only welcome more employment, especially at the present time. However, it should be based on sustainable growth, not just short-term profits and profits for a few. It is a long-term sustainable growth that provides work for many. The principles of sustainability were developed in 1987 under the direction of Brundtland in Our Common Future. These principles are still inspiring: they are not only about profit, but also about planet and people. It is precisely with regard to the environment and society that much has changed for livestock farming in recent decades. In my youth, animal manure was a significant raw material for agriculture. This is still the case, but because of the development of groundless livestock for pigs and chickens, manure is now abundant. It's also a waste. Excessive use causes negative effects, both on soil fertility and on the quality of our water. Much has also changed in the surroundings of livestock farming. The establishment of landless livestock farms often encounters resistance from its neighbours. The Province of Brabant has included the involvement of citizens and neighbors in the permit conditions for a livestock farm. Social involvement also leads to appreciation in a positive sense of milk from grazing dairy cows. Dairy farming in 2014 cannot go beyond the developments over the past 30 to 35 years. The PvdA Group believes that the growth of dairy farming should be sustainable. Does the government share Brundtland's principles of sustainability and, if so, what does that mean for Dutch dairy farming? The PvdA's group sees these principles of sustainability in the central goal of ground bonding. The cabinet wants to preserve and strengthen it. This is not only aimed at clean water under the Nitrates Directive. It is also about ammonia reduction, greenhouse gas reduction and energy efficiency. Groundboundness contributes to an improvement in animal health, animal welfare and the landscape, and supports the desired increase in grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	We ask the Secretary of State, although again, to clarify what the cabinet is aiming for directly but also indirectly with the maintenance and strengthening of the ground-boundness, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. Effectiveing this objective in terms of ground-boundity is not only a matter for the public authorities. This brings me to the following point: the role of civil society actors versus that of the government. The government has played a strong and effective role in environmental laws in recent years. This has brought us a lot: clean drinking water, clean bathing water, cleaner air, cleaner soil, more beautiful nature, safe and good living and therefore a good location climate for businesses. In short, environmental legislation has contributed a lot to our prosperity and well-being. As a result of developments in society, the government is currently required to change its role. The hierarchical, hidden society, with a policy that organized social consensus, develops into a more dynamic and complex network society. Hierarchical control has made way for a horizontal and open form of control. Citizens and businesses want to be able to decide what can and cannot be done. They are willing to use knowledge and energy for this purpose. Such a society requires different regulation, namely regulation that leaves room for the dynamics of society. That space is clearly limited by collective responsibility for the long term. They are clear boundaries of space that together with the collective goals form the picket poles and are secured by the government. In that society we see that active involvement of businesses and citizens makes the difference. This can also be clearly seen in major cases such as the installation of windmills and depollating. This is also the subject of the legislative proposal before us. The law includes some picket posts and is only one of the building blocks in a total package. In addition to the law, this package consists of agreements, price premium and delivery terms agreed outside the law by parties other than the government. The sector and civil society organisations have used their knowledge, creativity and energy to make smart and appropriate agreements aimed at sustainable growth of dairy farming. For example, agreements have been made in the cattle feed and in the meadow agreement. Thus, the stable farmer receives less milk per litre of milk from the milk factory, while the farmer who feeds his cows receives more. The intensive farmer is also obliged by the milk factory to keep track of a so-called circular hand. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can only say: "chapeau for this sector and for the civil society organisations that take responsibility here." Then we'll get to the bill itself. The central objective "preserving and strengthening soil binding" is reflected in the main rule: more cows are more land, without excess manure. This is reflected in Article 21 (2) (b) and (c), which creates the conditions for sustainable growth. The members of the PvdA Group therefore support this. Paragraph 2d also allows groundless growth. Although this is intended to implement the Nitrates Directive, this paragraph 2d is not in line with the objective of ground-boundity. It is therefore restricted by paragraph 5, which announces an AMvB with ground-bound conditions. This makes the bill consistent again. The LEI study accompanying the State Secretary's letter of 3 October 2014 shows that with paragraph 5 and without the AMvB farmers will choose from the individual interests groundless development with manure processing on their farm and thus not for land-based development. This is another typical example of Tragedy of the commons: the pursuit of maximization of one's own usefulness undermines the collective long-term goal. The sector organisations also do not support this. They argue on Article 2d that "totally groundless growth leads to extremes that damage the image of the sector." On paragraph 5, the PvdA Group has another question. Paragraph 5 derives from the amendment to item No. 60 at the Second Chamber on 12 and 13 November. The explanatory statement to that amendment states that the objective is to limit the groundless growth by means of manure processing in accordance with paragraph 2d "at least" (...). I conclude from this that as long as there is no AMvB, there is no possibility of using paragraph 2d on groundless growth. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? Finally, there is one aspect of implementation. It is very relevant to the dairy farmer which land is included in this bill. Mr Schaap has already spoken about this. Our question to the Secretary of State is the following. What conditions does the bill impose when drawing up land use declarations? Does the cabinet intend to work that out in, for example, an AMvB? Then there is the derogation, which has already been mentioned, and the phosphate ceiling. The legislative proposal is necessary in order to safeguard the so-called derogation contained in the Nitrate Directive. However, the legislative proposal itself has no legal guarantee of the phosphate ceiling as laid down in the Decision of 16 May 2014. The cabinet states that dairy farming has itself imposed a phosphate ceiling. In response to previous questions from the Labour Party, the Secretary of State states that this ceiling is nowhere legally anchored. The PvdA Group asks why this is not legally anchored. Isn't that necessary to prevent exceedance? Is this not also necessary to justify legal action in the event of an overrun? The prevention of the excess of the phosphate ceiling depends on the so-called feed trail. It's about non-legislative measures. In response to questions from the SP Group, the State Secretary reports that phosphate production in 2013 was higher than in 2012. Is that because you left the cattle feed trail behind? The Labour Party believes that monitoring the full milking of the phosphate ceiling is essential, both for farmers and for the environment. How does the government follow the effectiveness of the feed measures? What measures are being taken by the government when the measures on the ground are not sufficiently effective and there is a risk of overrun? What's the stick behind the door? Are these government measures being used proactively? Is a "hand on the crane" approach advocated so that it can be adjusted in time to prevent damage to the economy and the environment? What is the meaning of the AMvB? What does it mean to exceed the derogation for companies as issued annually by the RVO to individual companies? What are the financial consequences for the government if the phosphate ceiling is exceeded? In short, we do have a number of essential questions. The consideration of this bill is a good opportunity to raise some of the inconsistencies in the Nitrates Directive. The Directive promotes the use of nitrogen from fertilizers above that from animal manure. That is not according to the principles of the circular economy. Moreover, the production of fertilizers is accompanied by a high CO2 production. So this is where one environmental objective is on the other. In addition, the system of action programmes every four years causes recurring uncertainty for farmers, as Mr Schaap has already mentioned. Both issues do not benefit Europe's support and European regulation. Is the cabinet prepared to make an effort to raise these absurdities in Brussels? In the letter from the Secretary of State dated 11 December last. The main note refers to a provision for possible problems arising from the introduction of this law. The PvdA Group sees compensation as something that is only at issue when existing rights are affected and someone is affected specifically and abnormally or disproportionately compared to otherwise comparable others. Does the Secretary of State see it that way? Is it to be understood that a provision is being announced for entrepreneurs who have already invested on the basis of the previous proposals for the law? Have the entrepreneurs themselves taken the risk of the measures which are unfavourable to them? Why is such anticipating behaviour not an entrepreneurial risk? What is the significance of this in terms of the scope for changes in the parliamentary process of this legislation? In conclusion, in my introduction I referred to the debate on the milk quota at the kitchen table at our home in the late 1970s, early 1980s. The debate on dairy farming in 2014 is a broad discussion and a discussion with many more parties. In addition to economics, environmental and social aspects are also relevant. This legislative proposal contains important frameworks for the sustainable development of this forward-looking sector. The sector and civil society organisations appreciate their commitment. The members of the PvdA Group have questions about parts of the law and implementation. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Van Zandbrink. Would you stand there for a moment, please? Congratulations on your maiden speech. What I particularly appreciate is this. You have registered for fifteen minutes' speaking time. It is that you just tripped over a word, but otherwise you would have done it exactly in fifteen minutes. I appreciate that very much. On 23 September 2014, you were sworn in as a member of this house, in which you are a member of the Committee for Finance, the Committee for Infrastructure, Environment and Spatial Planning and the Committee for Social Affairs and Employment. From 1976 to 1983 you studied zootechnics at the agricultural college in Wageningen. "Zoötechniek" is a word that lends itself well to the Great Dictee der Nederlandse Taal: write it to each other or with a dash between it, where is the trema etc.? For those of us who are not familiar with this concept of zootechnics, this study focuses on methods of housing, care and feeding animals. You nod yes, Mr Van Zandbrink, so I'm good, thank God. After graduation, you worked for more than ten years at the Agricultural Land Administration Department, initially as an official at the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature Management and Fisheries and later as department head in Utrecht, Goes and Tilburg. From 1994 to 1997 you were director of the Programme Bureau for Further Development Brabant and Limburg. After that, you have been regional manager of Zeeland and later of the South Netherlands for several years. In 2004 you then became director Zuid of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality in Eindhoven. Since 2007 you have been an independent interim manager at "Wouter van Zandbrink Organisation and Advice." Your political career began in 2006, when you joined the Deputy States of Zeeland. In this position you were in charge of the coastal and rural area portfolio. A year later, you were elected a member of the Provincial States of Zeeland in Zeeland. In this capacity, you openly opposed the plan to transfer the financing of the dam reinforcements from the Empire to the waterboards, because this would be unfair to the inhabitants of the coastal areas. You said: "If the Netherlands is not protected by dikes, the other investments are pointless." Since April 2012, you have been chairman of the Delta Coalition, of course, the partnership between Zeeland, South Holland and Brabant that is working for an ecologically healthy and resilient delta. Your plurality to administrative and political experience predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber. We wish you every success in doing so. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but I demand the privilege to do so first!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. Under great pressure of time and at the end of 2014, this Chamber is debating, among other things, a legislative proposal, laying down rules for responsible growth of dairy farming, in short, the Act responsible growth dairy farming. This bill was adopted on 25 November 2014 in the Lower House. It's December 15th now. Between these two dates, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the First Chamber tried to examine this matter. The thought of a speeddate, but without the no commitment of a speeddate, insists on this. I can assure you, therefore, that there has been no reflection and that the minimum requirements regarding, among other things, due diligence to which this Chamber is often proud have been extended to the maximum in the course of proceedings surrounding this bill. EU agricultural policy has been defined for the coming years. Unfortunately, there is little or nothing that can be changed by national governments. For 30 years, the EU has been able to limit milk production by means of milk quotas. A farmer who produced more than his quota had to pay a fine, the so-called superlevy. Last year the Netherlands produced well above the milk quota. The industry paid 132 million euros for this. This paid superlevy was offset for the sector by the high milk price, which was about 12% higher than the previous year. As from 1 April 2015, the milk quota system shall be abolished. Milk production is expected to increase. This means that there is a reasonable chance that the price will fall below the cost price for the producer farmer. The sector itself thinks or hopes that, due to rising world demand and further innovations in the sector, it will at least partially compensate for the expected low selling price per litre. In order to limit the unbridled growth of dairy farming after the abolition of milk quotas from the manure policy, this bill is before this Chamber today. The PVV, like most Dutch dairy farmers and dairy producers, is in favour of an early entry into force of the present bill. However, the legislative proposal has a very broad framework and many further requirements, powers and rules are laid down by means of a General Administrative Measure to be drawn up. The aim of this AMvB is to limit phosphate production for those companies that only want to compensate their phosphate production with manure processing. With the main note on this still to come AMvB, dated 11 December last, to the Eerste Kamer, the Secretary of State indicates a number of points which are further formulated and which are also of interest to the PVV group. The first is the so-called "ground bond" principle, which assumes that manure produced by a farm must be processed on land belonging to that farm. The explanatory memorandum also describes three methods, which, according to the Agricultural Economic Institute, differ from influences and intervention on management, emissions and production. Making a choice will therefore have a major impact on the sector. My group's question to the Secretary of State is therefore to inform the Chamber not only about the choice of the system itself, but also to give reasons for that choice. Cows in the Dutch landscape belong to our living cultural heritage. Unfortunately, we have to note that in recent years there has been a decline in grazing from almost complete grazing to below 70%. The PVV Group considers it important that the grazing in the Netherlands is not lost and asks the Secretary of State, where possible, to take account of this in the AMvB still to be completed in the interests of animal welfare, diversity and the uniqueness of the Dutch countryside. Furthermore, the PVV group asks the Secretary of State to continue to actively inform the Chamber in the steps to be taken to further fill in the AMvB, even during the implementation after the choices to be made. This proactive communication with the Chamber applies particularly where bottlenecks can be expected or already occur. Finally, Mr President. What we would like to see explained is what specific policy the Secretary of State is going to pursue with regard to the possibilities for the survival of the often smaller family and family farms in dairy farming. The PVV Group considers it important that these companies should read through the power of large numbers or the economic power: money should not get into the tribulation and may have to fear for their survival because of the ever increasing scale with the associated negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr President, may I have a glass of milk instead of water? My throat's a little sore. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. In a bill like this, I miss our former spokesperson in this area, Eric Smaling. Then why don't I start "Smalian"? The title of the bill is "responsible growth dairy farming." Essentially, it's about responsible poop growth. Excuse me, Mr President, you have never heard me say that word here. We use euphemisms, like the "retirade," and we are discreet about what is happening there. But cows just let the shit in the meadow walk unrepealed. In my native region there is talk of 'cow flat'. In the meantime, many dairy farmers of that retirade have made the daily stay of the cows. Cows are supposed to be animals with beautiful horns, who are happy to hop into the meadow, but for the elimination of these horns they have had to undergo plastic surgery. They have nothing to choose about this and also about outdoor air and meadow grass. Cows are means of production and production must be increased at all costs. As far as the environment is concerned, it also increases the excess production of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium: après nous le déluge. Interestingly, the bill or the explanatory memorandum does not mention poop, flats or feces, but only its transformed utility, namely manure. With a herd of 124 million animals in 2014, we don't know what to do with that. Among these 124 million animals, more than 16 animals per household in the Netherlands, 4 million cattle, more than 12 million pigs and, until recently at least, more than 100 million chickens. Of the cattle, 1.6 million are dairy and calf cows. The so-called surpluses in 2013 were 338 million kilos for nitrogen, 18 million kilos for phosphate and 30 million kilos for potassium. This includes exports of 398, 39 and 64 million kilos. Apart from these figures, this is pretty much the summary of the bill. I say "sort of," because I was able to look up those figures at the CBS. I was shocked by it, but time to really understand the bill didn't get to my indignation. The present proposal was submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs for procedure on 2 December. In its letter of 27 November and in the oral consultation it requested with the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Secretary of State also put pressure on the Committee on 2 December to deal with the legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. That means that we had thirteen days before the written procedure until today's plenary session. Given the time frame that a typical member has for the First Chamber, this is no more than four days. In those four days, many spokesmen also had to deal with the legislative proposals already under way, which were and were on the plenary agenda last week and today and tomorrow. I am indignant not only because it has made it impossible for me to carry out my legislative task properly, but also because this Secretary of State does not keep to her words and does not do so twice in a short period of time. First of all... In her letter of 27 November, the Secretary of State wrote: "In the course of the examination in the Lower House, I undertook to forward to the House of Representatives, before the legislative proposal is discussed in your Chamber, a general note on the implementation of the general measure of governance announced in the legislative proposal to anchor ground-based growth. I will also send that note to your Chamber." We received this note last Thursday, but that is not before the procedure but just before the end of the procedure. In the attached letter of last Thursday, the Secretary of State, in passing, twists her previous words. There it is called that she would have promised the note for the debate in the First Chamber. That's not what it says in her letter. That's not how it changed across the street. That note seems rather shallow to me, by the way. There is no proper elaboration of the alternatives. The General Measure of Governance is essential and substantial for the legislative proposal. Should this be adopted, I would ask the Secretary of State to submit a commitment to an amending law ensuring that the proposed AMvB is part of the law. Second. When the Secretary of State prevented the request from the Committee on Economic Affairs on 2 December, I asked her the following: if the committee takes urgent action on the bill and ten political groups provide written input, how many days will you be able to answer the questions properly? After some thought, the Secretary of State said: within four days including the weekend. At the subsequent EZ meeting, the deadline for reply was set at four days. However, the questions raised by the SP Group were not answered properly, but formally with little or no substantive information. A repeated request for an answer was answered in four sentences last Friday. In the seven and a half years I've been here, I've never experienced questions being answered so badly or not. Answering written questions is essential for the quality of the debate here and therefore for the debate that is now taking place. Apparently, the Secretary of State wants a superficial debate. I will ask a limited number of my questions once again, but shortened. First of all... I would ask for a list of the interests involved in the legislative proposal, including, as far as the case is concerned, human health, animal welfare, the relatively large and small dairy farmers, the mono-farm and mixed farm, the environment, specified on the relevant points of attention, sustainability and the circular economy. Second. I would ask for a list of the conflicts of interest that are involved. Third. I would ask for an argumented consideration of the interests and conflicts of interest mentioned in the answer to the previous two questions. I would then like to know what choices are made in the relevant legislative proposal. Fourth. The legislative proposal aims at responsible growth of the agricultural sector. Is growth at meso-level........ a premiss for growth in the sector............................................................................................................................................. If so, how is it argued? What is the situation with regard to dairy farming in particular? Given the size of the Netherlands, could "responsible" also mean that growth should be stopped or that shrinkage is justified? To what extent does the cabinet consider it justified to adjust production in the long term to local or at least domestic consumption? I will continue with my questions, but I would like to add something in between. The officials of the State Secretary have the opportunity to answer these questions in writing. So now they're putting the Secretary of State with the answer to these questions. I want that too. For these kinds of questions, we have the written procedure. However, the officials, for whom the Secretary of State is responsible, have decided differently. Fifth. In the letter from the Secretary of State dated 27 November 2014, the "risk of the Netherlands losing the derogation" she appointed was one of the two reasons for asking the First Chamber for urgent treatment if the bill had not been adopted by 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	Let me come back to the fourth question, in which Mr Reuten talks about the growth of the dairy farming sector. What does he mean by growth? Does he mean the number of animals or milk production?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	At first, I mean the number of animals. When it comes to dairy cows, of course, there's coherence, but I know it's not linear.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	If you limit it to the number of animals, the production can be further increased quietly, namely per cow. That is why this is important for understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	I don't know if those cows are happy that they have to give more milk every day. I give it to you to do; not you, Mr Sheep, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	I'd like to give a lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	I am aware that milk production per cow is increasing, if that is what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	I was only concerned with the clear wording of the question. When Mr Reuten says he has problems with growth, I wonder what that is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u27	I'm having a bit of a problem with its environmental impact. You'll taste it. I mean this including the lugging with everything and everything, such as the transport of pigs over and over again, to Italy and from there back here and so on. Mr Koffeman knows more about it than I do, because I hardly know that. I was talking about the derogation. My question is: what are the social costs and benefits expressed in millions of euros (possibly for different interests, etc.)? Interest groups) of the annual derogation for 2013, 2017 and 2021, on the basis of some projected growth, assuming that the derogation remains on the current scale? I would like to know what the costs and benefits are, since we have been urged to act urgently for this reason. That seems to me to be a very simple question. That simple question was not answered either. Sixth. Does the government intend to reduce the derogation, the gap between the EU standard and the exemption, for environmental reasons? If so, how and at what rate? If not, why not? Seventh. Does the Government consider that there should be a level playing field within and between EU countries in the various areas covered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs? If not, why not? If so, how does the said derogation fit in? As a result, the conditions of competition between European countries differ. Does the government consider that the derogation granted to the Netherlands and other countries could also encourage the other EU countries to obtain a derogation? If not, why not? If so, does the government believe that this will serve the environment and future generations? Is the Dutch environment now served by the derogation granted to the Netherlands? I await the Secretary of State's answers again. She and her officials have now had eleven days to consider the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. My group colleague Marijke Vos would have liked to be here, because it has been her subject for years. She e-mailed me the other day: take care of my baby. This subject is to her heart, but Marijke has to let go because last Friday her husband, Maarten Evenblij, died. In a way, this is my maiden speech green in this Chamber, while I have been a member of the GroenLinks Group for more than ten years. It seems that the Secretary of State does not fully take the role of this Chamber seriously, given the poor preparation of this bill and the short time in which the Chamber should speak out for or against the proposal. It seems that little good consultation with stakeholders in society has preceded this bill. It all seems to need to be quick-smooth. Can the Secretary of State explain why some, if not all, participants in the so-called Internet consultation have not received a substantive response so far? Does the government believe that our parliamentary system is really only difficult and that careful balancing of interests through consultation with social partners should be avoided? For the sake of the importance of dedicated and squandering farmers and of nature and the environment, we will nevertheless assess this bill on its content and even, on the basis of a few motions, make a contribution to the timely availability of a full legislative proposal. We're hoping we can help the Secretary of State with that. We're holding a motion back over the AMvB and later one over the meadow. With the release of the milk quota as of 1 April 2015, an increase in milk production in the Netherlands and other EU countries is expected. Higher milk production in the Netherlands strengthens the trading position of the Netherlands as exporter of high-quality milk products, which currently yields a trade surplus of around EUR 3.6 billion per year. At the same time, dairy farmers are calling the alarm clock because of the low milk prices. Some even slaughter their cows because the meat will in any case yield something. The low milk prices would also be the result of Russia's boycott, which is a large consumer of milk products. For the time being, the situation with Russia is not likely to improve anytime soon. It may even deteriorate. Let us hope for rapid recovery, but at the same time be realistic. An increase in dairy production resulting from the abandonment of the milk quota will not contribute to higher milk prices, rather to lower prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Thissen says he hopes that it will all recover quickly. I would like to ask him whether he thinks it is real that a small country like the Netherlands is producing for the world market. We are producing an extremely environmentally unfriendly and unhealthy product, which is also unhealthy, for the world market, rather than putting people who need it on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u30	Either I misread myself, or Mr. Koffeman misunderstood me. I hope that the situation with Russia will improve overall. I think and fear it will deteriorate sooner. I did not mention that production should be increased in this way as a result of the climate summit in Lima, because of the enormous impact it has on greenhouse gases and the climate in the world. There is therefore no difference of opinion between us in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u31	That's nice. But for the sake of clarity, is there not, therefore, Mr Thissen in favour of the Netherlands producing milk for countries such as Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u32	I believe that total agricultural production, in this case milk production, should be reduced because of the positive effects it has on greenhouse gas emissions. It seems that the government is encouraging an increase in milk production despite the impact on milk prices. This gives the impression to our group that the legislative proposal is mainly in favour of the dairy processing industry and not in favour of most small-scale dairy farms, which are usually family farms. Can the Secretary of State explain how she has been guided in the draft of this bill by the lobby of the dairy industry, and how this relates to the position of the ordinary dairy farmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u33	Again for the clear understanding: Mr Thissen says that the smaller dairy farms are usually family farms. Do the larger dairy farms fall outside the category of family farms?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u34	No, a cow is a mammal, but not all mammals are cow, of course. I do not rule out the fact that there are also large dairy farms that are family farms, but our heart goes out to small-scale dairy farms, which are more often family farms. That is what we want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u35	Also for understanding: all dairy farms in the Netherlands are family farms. There is therefore no difference between large and small in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u36	It's been noted. I come to the systems examined by the Agricultural Economic Institute. Does the government agree that system 1 only works limitively if a maximum standard of 50 kilos of phosphate surplus per hectare is maintained? Can the Secretary of State therefore undertake that the other standards of 80 kilos and 100 kilos of phosphate surplus per hectare, respectively, will in any case not be used in the final General Measure of Management? Does the government share our interpretation that system 2, namely land-boundness coupled with three grazing livestock units per hectare, is best manageable and provides the most certainty for responsible growth, and that this system is therefore preferable? Yesterday, the climate summit ended in Lima. In his study Livestock climate change forgotten sector, the British think tank Chatham House has once again shown that farm animals account for 14.5% of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. That's more than all the cars, trains, planes and boats combined. This must lead to radical behavior changes in our societies, especially with regard to our food production behaviour and our own eating behaviour. Does the Secretary of State consider that her proposal fits in with that line of thinking and corresponds to the commitment that actually led to the climate summit in Lima? In the reply, the State Secretary states that the grazing course remained the same in 2013 compared to 2012 and that it can be concluded that the sector takes the Covenant Weidegang seriously. In the south of the Netherlands, 46% of cows are stabled permanently. Nature & Environment concludes in its report of October 2014 that in dairy farms of 200 or more cows there is little or no grazing. This bill is expected to increase the number of megasthals, according to former Minister of Agriculture Veerman and former informant Wijffels. With manure processing as escape route is the gate of the dam. We're holding a motion on the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u37	I am a little surprised that it is always about the grazing of dairy cows. But what about the so-called meat cows? They get out, don't they? Does Mr Thissen perhaps know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u38	As far as I'm concerned, but I've made a real commitment to the dairy farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u39	Yeah, I think that's 2.5 million...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u40	4.1 million cattle.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u41	Yes, and 1.6 million dairy cows. That's a little pathetic, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u42	It seems better for the meat when the cows walk outside, including the meat cows, but I have not gone into that. Perhaps next time we can debate this, Mr Reuten. You, like me, are quite "green" on this subject. Apparently it is still thought that manure processing solves the problem of the mineral surplus. However, manure plants do not contribute to the recovery of disturbed cycles or export abroad. After all, the countries around us are increasingly experiencing a surplus of minerals. For this reason, for example, the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia has indicated that it will soon close the border for Dutch manure. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it intends to restore disturbed cycles and how it deals with possible problems with the export of manure? The Secretary of State states in the reply that the choice to grant megastals to provinces and municipalities is and that they are free not to allow the establishment of megastals or to extend existing stables in that direction. Can the Secretary of State explain how this is regulated in the new Environment Act and, if not, does she share the view of our group in that case that the grazing and ground-based nature of the bill before us should be safeguarded in order to avoid endangering the objectives of grazing and mineral surplus? In any event, the trade surplus appears to be accompanied by a mineral surplus. So we provide a healthy environment for everyone for economic prosperity. But for whom? For the small group that exports and can make a profit? It is very much the question of how long that is going to last. The global impact of the livestock sector on our environment and climate is regularly warned. The government lacks an integrated vision of livestock farming. Our group believes that dairy farming should remain proportionate: farmers should be given the opportunity to get a fair price for their milk, cows should be given the opportunity to enter the pasture and we should not produce more manure than our land can handle. Our group believes that the Secretary of State should give less attention to the lobbyists of the dairy industry who are oppressing our farmers and destroying our environment and should act more in the spirit of her own government agreement that preaches the pursuit of a circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u43	On the meadow: Mr. Thissen makes a call for...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u44	... more grazing...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u45	... more plundered meadows. My question was how Mr Thissen thinks this should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u46	I believe that this could be promoted on many fronts. It is also much more beautiful and better for the landscape when you see cows in the meadow again?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u47	That's not what I asked. I have the same sense of aesthetics as Mr Thissen, but it is about compulsory grazing. How's he gonna take care of that? Should this be regulated by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u48	This should be regulated in the dairy farming law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u49	So Mr. Thissen wants a legal arrangement for grazing?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u50	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u51	I would ask you all to intervene through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u52	I understood the question nonetheless. Finally, has the Secretary of State seen The Lion King? Can she indicate how her policy relates to the core message of that film? With the words from this film I want to conclude: Never take more, than you give.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u53	I know GroenLinks as a party that generally always takes care of what countries, in what they used to call the Third World, find. I think that the fight against poverty through better nutrition is a major issue. What does Mr Thissen say if China says it wants to import more dairy from Europe? Does he then take into account the question of what the Netherlands could contribute to the world food issue at world level, or does he no longer play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u54	If I have understood Mr Terpstra's question correctly, he suggests that what we advocate is at the expense of development opportunities in the Third World and a fair distribution of food. If it is up to us, the Netherlands should not produce food for half the world and its neighbours, but food production should be smaller and much more ecologically balanced at the place where it is consumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u55	That wasn't exactly my question. Suppose a country like China says that it needs dairy products and that they can be produced in its own country in less numbers or of less quality. If China calls on countries in North-West Europe that do have a good dairy sector, will the Netherlands make a contribution to the world food problem? In the past, GroenLinks was always very motivated to serve the interests of China, India and Africa. What role does this play in Mr Thissen's position on the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u56	The most important thing, in our view, is that we should return to an ecological balance, I say to Mr Terpstra through the chairman. That's the first priority. If the study of the British think tank shows that 15% of greenhouse gases are caused by an enormous over-production that we use through the presence of farm animals and pets, I think that the time has come for us to look together at how we come to this balance. We certainly cannot find that balance if we allow this bill to increase the dairy herd to compensate farmers for the low milk price. Mr Terpstra can tell wonderful stories about the role of the Netherlands in supplying China with dairy products, but it might be much more intelligent if we help China with our technological knowledge to become self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u57	I would like to touch on the last point made by Mr Thissen. 80% of the Chinese are lactose intolerant and are not happy with milk. Through our example farms in Henan, we have led the Chinese to believe that all Chinese schoolchildren should drink half a litre of milk a day. Does Mr Thissen not think that, in the context of development cooperation, we should focus much more on plant nutrition for China and make it clear to the Chinese that they should not copy the mistakes we have made here, with school milk, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u58	Mr. Koffeman tells me something new. I didn't know most of the Chinese and Chinese kids were lactose intolerant. This very much underlines my argument that we need to move towards an ecological balance. This ecological balance is very helpful if we do not invest heavily in meat and animal production, but much more in healthy food. It can also save the world. Let me close this pathetic way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. A debate on small talk: today we are discussing with steam and boiling water the law officially called the Law rules for responsible growth of dairy farming. However, there are hardly any rules to be discovered in this carte blanche that we are supposed to issue. We have known for years that the milk quota will be abolished, but despite that the law must be hunted by both chambers before Christmas. Why did it end up being such a rush? Because there has been endless consultation with the sector. Last year it went around this time with the manure law, that's how it went earlier this autumn with the PAS and that's how it goes now. The answer to our written questions shows that the Secretary of State does not know how many licences have been issued in recent years, and therefore does not know what the actual room for expansion of dairy farming is. How can it maintain that enlargement will be limited to 20% by 2020? I am asking this all the more so since it has already indicated in another place that the dairy farming has apparently already made an advance on this enlargement. I'd like to hear her reaction. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State does not address our questions about the position of dairy farming in the world dairy market, which is precisely cited as one of the reasons for giving dairy farming as much room as possible. It is a world market in which 80% of consumers are lactose intolerant, even though Mr Schaap does not yet know it. Nevertheless, that market attracts cowboys from the rich west to convince people there that our dairy would be their hope for the future, or their dung heap for the future. The World Health Organisation calls subsidising milk, cheese and butter from the common agricultural policy "a system that can be described controversially as designed to kill European citizens through cardiovascular diseases." I stress that I quote, because it does not seem logical for such an official body to use such terms. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether she has done or is going to do something with this warning from the World Health Organisation? I'd like to hear her reaction. How responsible is dairy farming and its growth? In the short term, it is quite risk-free for the dairy sector, because the desire is for the farmer and the burden for the citizen, the environment and animals. In the longer term, farmers will be the victims of the boundless greed that is now leading to irresponsible enlargement. The white gold, as milk is called, and the brown gold, as manure is sold to us, will turn out to be black gold. Within ten years, greenhouse gas emissions from European dairy farming will have increased to 221 million tonnes of CO, according to the industry itself. Also according to the expectations of the sector itself, manure production in the Netherlands will increase to 80 million tonnes. The sector estimates that up to 40% of them are being processed illegally. In modern stables, which are in fact a large copy of the dieron-friendly, old-fashioned lagoon stable, animal welfare is sacrificed to the importance of an even higher production per cow, up to 12,000 litres of milk per year. Not so long ago, cows gave 3,000 gallons of milk a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr Koffeman talks about the dieron-friendly lounge stand. What exactly is his alternative to the lounge stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u61	There are several alternatives. For example, the old-fashioned pot stall is much better than the lounge stall.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr Koffeman does not go so far as to place the old-fashioned Frisian or Dutch stole as an example in front of the ligboxenstal?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u63	Well, that old-fashioned wasn't such a crazy system, but that had to do with small scale. In the past, groups of cows were no larger than 80 cows. Then you could control such a system in an animal-friendly way very well. The moment you try to work with hundreds of cows in a herd, you can't. That means that you are indeed at the limits of the possibilities. In agriculture, for example, you are forced to have stables where the animals are kept above a vulture cellar because of the fact that you have to collect the manure and can no longer leave in the meadow. So yes, the way in which livestock farming is literally getting out of hand does indeed cause these kinds of problems to arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mr Koffeman is developing long sentences here, but I simply asked what an animal-friendly alternative to the lounge stall is. Then it came out that that small-scale Dutch and Frisian stable would be better. I happen to have grown up on a farm and know from experience what such an old Dutch stable is and how much leg inflammation, udder inflammation and what not the cows had to suffer then and what a blessing it has been for the animals that they could finally get off the chain and walk freely in that lounge stall. So for God's sake, don't go back to that old-fashioned situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u65	The current situation, which Mr Schaap considers to be much better than the old situation, causes seven out of ten cows to run around with leg and claw problems, very painful conditions. Every year, four out of ten cows suffer from painful udder inflammation and 700,000 calves are dehorned every year in those fine new stables with a burner, regularly without anesthesia. 26% of the cows have been stabled since the year. That is not a good situation for the cows, no matter what Mr Schaap says. So I said that in the modern stables, which are in fact a larger copy of the dieron-friendly old-fashioned ligbox stand, animal welfare is sacrificed to the importance of even higher production per cow. Dairy farming is not controlled by serious ailments such as udder inflammation, leg problems and infertility because of its large scale. LTO opened a staggering booklet about this in 2006. I would advise Mr Schaap to read that again. The Secretary of State is pulling her hands off that. That is the responsibility of the entrepreneur, she says. Why should the dairy farmer decide how much suffering he lets his animals suffer? Why are the rules being stretched to make that possible? Why do we facilitate a system that, according to the World Health Organisation and the United Nations, is a disaster for public health, for the climate, for the environment, for nature and for animals themselves, without giving farmers much money? We stretch the rules through a derogation when it comes to nitrogen, through manure processing when it comes to phosphate. And C0 emissions from livestock farming are outside the climate agreement. Why, when we know that dairy farming is one of the biggest drivers of greenhouse gas emissions? I'd like a reaction in relation to what the Act has been called responsible growth. A year ago, the Secretary of State said that the expansion of the dairy herd would be ecologically limited. Why do we hardly find any of these ecological boundaries in the current empty framework law? I'd like a response. The Dutch government puts a small 400 million in dairy farming per year through the taxpayer and the detour Brussels. These amounts vary between €20,000 and over €100,000 per company. The government is therefore a major shareholder and thus has control over the course that these companies should follow on behalf of the citizens. Why do we subsidise what, according to previous spokesmen, is a successful sector and, according to the World Health Organisation and the UN, causes major problems? Why are you funding a sector that should be able to stop its own pants easily and have so much success? Why are you funding a sector that causes such big problems? Through the feed track, phosphate production increased last year rather than decreased. However, the Secretary of State continues to use this. Today CBS announced that 161 million phosphate was produced in 2012 and 166 million in 2013. The production ceiling is 173 million, and we are approaching that in a rapid fashion. So this law is out of date before it's passed. Cows are literally milked. They have to produce more and live less long. The Secretary of State is led by a sector that has been driven by the relatively high milk price of the past two years. The sector is not going to expand, the sector is already expanding and is already sitting with the fried pears before the real enlargement can begin. And those baked pears, as usual, will soon be put back on the citizens' plate via some push and pull with tractors. In the future markets, prices for milk continue to fall: below €0,18 for the June deliveries. However, the Secretary of State insists that the sector should be able to expand due to good opportunities on the world market. Laws are there to solve or prevent problems. Our country is succumbing to the manure surplus produced not only by the 1.6 million cows, but also by the 12 million pigs and 97 million chickens and turkeys in the Netherlands, at the moment. Together these animals produce 71 million tonnes of manure per year. We are talking about 4,000 kilos of manure per Dutchman. It concerns 20 to 25 bathtubs full of poop per Dutchman. Where are you gonna put that? If the Dutch manure production were to be run over the municipality of The Hague, all Hagenaars would be in the poop up to their waist. The acidifying and fertilising substances from manure are harmful to our nature. Heather and the open dunes grass up and grow densely. It costs millions of euros in nature conservation to preserve this special nature. In times of austerity on nature, that's not a pleasant thing to do. The effects of the huge amount of manure in our country on surface water are even more serious. Too high concentrations of nitrate threaten our drinking water. We do not even achieve half of the European water quality targets by 2027. Herbal grasslands and meadows with dandelions we hardly see anymore. That's a drama for the meadowbirds. The law we're dealing with today doesn't address these problems. In fact, it allows the livestock in our country to grow even further. This law also ensures that the animals will be placed even closer together. In order to process manure, which is required by this law, you have to collect the manure. And so the animals have to stand in a stable on top of the vulture cellar. The release of the compartmentalisation has only increased the fraud pressure. Transport costs a lot of money and so there is a huge incentive to cheat. And that's happening all the time. A few weeks ago we had to deal with a young manure fraudster, the 16-year-old Niels Lentjes, who frauded millions with manure. Today it was announced that a couple were arrested in Belgium and sentenced to a million fines for cheating on manure. It happens on a large scale and there is hardly any supervision. In 2009, Minister Verburg expressed the vain hope that she would be the last minister for whom manure was a headache file. She hoped "that we could all make manure a success file. That we can find applications that everyone, including many citizens, could never have dreamed of." Five years later, the Netherlands is deeper in shit than ever before and if it's up to the cabinet, we're going to break that record again. Dairy farming as a sector and the dairy cow as an animal have literally grown out of their strength. With this law, the government does not stand in the way of dairy farming to grow even further, to transform into a new form of bio-industry and to allow the already huge surplus of manure to grow even further. Even the representatives of the sector do not consider it desirable to have unlimited groundless growth in dairy farming. And yet the Secretary of State is committed to that. Why does it need warnings from two former ministers, not least from CDA and VVD homes, to change the law so that the unbridled groundless growth that threatens dairy farming is not possible? Why doesn't she take their advice? The coalition does not seem to be allowed to slip over the enormous surplus of manure in our country. For years we have seen the warnings in the Balance of the Environment that the signals for nature and water quality are red. In 2010, CapGemini commissioned the government to investigate the effects of livestock growth. CapGemini came to the conclusion that the government had to intervene. These warnings have not been applied to dairy farming. No boundaries were set and no warnings were given to the sector. Thus, the sector grew by 2% annually at a rapid rate from 2007. From 2012 it went really fast. Farmers anticipated the expiry of milk quotas by keeping more and more young cattle on the farm. Milk production increased by 6% in 2013. And now that that growth is a fact, with all the negative consequences, phosphate production will be taken as a reference in 2013. The only option to maintain real land density is to introduce a maximum number of grazing livestock units per hectare. CDA Minister Braks proposed this as early as 1991. This is also the only way to stop the continuing intensification of milk production per cow. I told you, a cow used to deliver 3,000 gallons of milk a year, and now 12,000 gallons. A cow has literally burned up after three years, while the natural life expectancy of a cow is twenty years. It is very much necessary for the welfare and health of these animals to be reduced. However, in the main letter, this option is almost fired off. The Centre for Agriculture and the Environment has calculated what could be the result if you give entrepreneurs the opportunity to grow with the only limit of 50 kg per hectare of land-related surplus. We then come to a possible growth in dairy farming of 49%. I repeat, 49%. This means that we will soon be able to pass through the phosphate ceiling agreed with the European Commission. And that's what's gonna happen. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the consequence of exceeding the phosphate ceiling is that all Dutch dairy farmers will lose their derogation? This means that farmers who do not currently have a phosphate surplus on their farms, because they can dispose of all manure on their own land, should suddenly have a large part of their manure processed or bought a lot of land. I'd like to hear a response to this. The Secretary of State trusts that the agreements and agreements she has made with the sector will be sufficient to avoid this scenario. I doubt that very much. Many farmers find that hundreds of cows in a large dense megastal work much less fun than keeping 60 or 70 cows that can walk outside in the meadow. But the cowboys of the cowmunitions go for the big bucks. They see TTIP and they see the demand in China for dairy products. This entrepreneur wants to produce for the world market and therefore has no message of covenants, meadow premiums and phosphate ceilings. That will inevitably be the end of the derogation, but on the very late side. The problem is simple: we produce too much manure. The solution is that you simply have to keep fewer animals in this country. Less animals, less manure, less problems. This law offers potentially good opportunities to reduce livestock numbers in the Netherlands and to provide a clear picture of the future for intensive livestock farming as a whole. This law should also address the animal welfare problems associated with the large scale of the sector. The dairy cows had claw problems and udder inflammation for it. Cows are so bred, they're literally milked out. Over and over again, mother cows have to endure the traumatic process that their calf is removed immediately after birth. Last year a district in Amsterdam literally had to listen to this grief of a mother cow.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u66	This sentence about removing the calves from the mother cow I also look at a contrario. So you want to have some sort of arrangement that the calves must stay with the cow?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u67	Yeah, that would be a really good idea. That is also a very natural process. Infants, by definition, depend on their mother. I'd think that goes for cows, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u68	The calf is indeed going to act like an infant to the cow. What does Mr Koffeman think is the result of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u69	I know that very well. When a calf starts to act like an infant in a cow, he drinks the breast milk that the cow produces. That's only natural.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u70	Yeah, that's natural. The result is that the calf immediately gets diarrhea and will die of it with great certainty. The milk of the cow is totally unsuitable for the calf.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u71	That's a very interesting fact. If a calf stays with his mother, it is very to the detriment of that calf, I understand from the VVD. The calf must therefore be protected from the misery that his mother might cause him. If this is the livestock farming that Mr Schaap is in favour of, it is so denatured that you can say that it is far from reality, but also far from everything that nature had in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u72	Finally, Mr Schaap, on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u73	I can tell Mr Koffeman that this has been practice for a century, so it has been ensured for a century that the calf does not break away from drinking its own breast milk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u74	If the calf is destroyed by its own breast milk, it is very much the question of how healthy that breast milk is for humans. We are, by the way, the only species to take breast milk of another species. I think Mr Schaap should give his thoughts on this one more time. The fact that calves should be protected from what their mother can do to them is really too crazy for words. Mr. Chairman. I have already said that residents of Amsterdam have been able to experience at close range the pain of a calf being removed from his mother. The newspapers were full of it when cow Els was separated from the Tosti factory from her calf. Dozens of neighbors described this grief as the sound of a steam locomotive and an army of seals. Kalfjes suffer from enormous stress because they must miss the individual care and protection of their mother. In recent months, dairy farmers have anticipated the elimination of milk quotas through enlargement, scaling up and increasing milk production. Dairy farmers have seriously exceeded their milk quota and would like to take the fine of the European Commission for granted. It could've been over. Last week the very low December milk price was announced. Farmers reacted directly by offering 50% extra cows to the slaughterhouses. So what does the farmer do when the milk price drops a little? Then he says goodbye to his cows immediately. On radio and TV you can hear farmers talking about the bond they have with their animals. This is in stark contrast to the fact that if the milk price drops a little bit, 50% more cows will be brought directly to the slaughterhouse. Money is all that matters in this sector. Does the Secretary of State consider that the way in which the sector limits its production by measuring the lives of animals at the price of a litre of milk is more effective than a system of animal rights? Can she explain how limiting production by sending animals to the slaughterhouse depending on the price of a litre of milk fits within the cabinet vision of a sustainable livestock farming? Unfortunately, today we are faced with nothing more than an empty law, which does not deal with any of the major problems in dairy farming and which is in no way clear how it is being filled in. Unfortunately, governing has become forward. Last year the amendment of the Fertilisers Act had to be rushed through just as quickly before Christmas. This is also a law that left the big manure problem in our country untouched, to tackle the problem at source and which was only used for solutions at the end of the line, such as manure treatment. I find both the content and the process of this law unacceptable and cannot possibly agree to it. That should actually apply to all other parties that have sustainability as an important theme in their election programme, but apparently opt for short-term economic interests. We can't condemn this law. It must be adopted before 1 January, otherwise we will have problems with Brussels. The voter is the only one who can make sure that less poop is spoken in this house on 18 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u75	Madam President. Prealabel a single personal word, if you'll allow me. I am extremely grateful and experience it as a special privilege and as a miracle that I am being given the opportunity to take part again in the debates at this place, more than six months after the last time. Thanks to the grace and faithfulness of our Creator and maintainer! I would also like to thank you from this place for the many expressions of warm sympathy from my colleagues and the staff of the Chamber, as well as for the very welcome I received on 28 October. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It was "more than usual" to say the title of a rumour-making book published in 1977. But let's get to the point. I will then, of course, be addressing the government through you, Madam President, with a few comments and questions. The hasty handling of the bill takes place under double threat. If the law were to be rejected, dairy farmers would face the threat of animal rights being introduced by the Secretary of State. And if the law does not enter into force before 1 January, according to "Brussels," the Netherlands does not fulfil the conditions for the derogation granted and a decision of the nitrate committee may be sufficient to withdraw or amend the derogation. The assessment of this last threat, which motivates the urgency procedure at the eleventh hour, depends very much on how much the European Commission's sense of reasonableness is or is perceived to be. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been asked to give its opinion on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound level of motor vehicles and their trailers. After all, the bill had been dealt with by the First Chamber and could have been dealt with well before 1 April, the date of expiry of the milk quota. Now perhaps there will be a law before 1 January, the core of which is undetermined. The question is: why should we not have been open to this reasonable position in Brussels? I am also thinking of the progress that we have had here with the budget for security and justice for the coming year, while guaranteeing that treatment would not be a problem after 1 January. Those who followed developments in livestock farming in the 1960s and 1970s know that dairy farming did not create the surplus of manure. This has arisen in pig, poultry and calf farms, emerging and highly expanding farms which often had little land, in any case do not have sufficient land outside their construction site. I am afraid that if we do not set limits to growth in time, dairy farming will pursue these intensive sectors. And dairy farming should not become an industrial farm. In fact, the present proposal is nothing more than an amendment to the Fertilisers Act. The starting point is that the total manure surplus in the Netherlands should not grow. The total phosphate ceiling for all species, if I have it, is 173 million kilos. For dairy farming, that ceiling will be 85 million kilos. Recent CBS figures have shown that this ceiling has already come very close. The law wants to make it possible to set limits to growth in the future, not to set absolute limits for existing companies, so I take the text. The initial proposal met with the necessary criticism, not only in the Lower House but also in the sector, which usually advocated more space, but now insisted on limitation by ensuring the ground-boundness more clearly than in the legislative proposal. A unique event, I might add. In my view, there will have to be limits to intensification, either by setting an upper limit on the number of animals per hectare or by limiting the quantity of milk produced or by linking it to the amount of manure. I have some doubts as to whether the growth of the manure surplus can be kept within the limits of the phosphate ceiling. When I see what has been built in recent times, not only for replacement and what is still under construction, knowing that these stables are not full in the run-up to 2015, I hold on to my heart. The risk of a very large number of companies growing and thus using the phosphate space of others is very high. In order to achieve the objective of controlled growth, it cannot be limited to the share of manure processing. The weakness of the focus on only manure processing is that this sneak-out, escape or escape route will not limit the growth of the dairy herd in the future and will not prevent the emergence of landless farms. The General Administrative Measure provided for in Article 21 (5) of the proposed law allows a maximum rate for manure processing. I'll get back to you on that. Instead of the milk quota, which disappears, dairy farmers are confronted with a "milk cattle phosphate reference', which is the phosphate surplus of dairy cows at farm level. The reference year is based on 2013 as a reference year. Phosphate production by dairy and young cattle is determined in the reference on the basis of flat-rate standards for 2014, not on the basis of 2013 standards. Did I get that correctly? Milk cattle phosphate reference will be business-related and only transferable in a family context; it will not be negotiable. Is that still true? The RVO (Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland) will submit the data on animal numbers to the livestock farmers for control. According to the schedule, this would happen in October 2014. Following control by the farmer, the RVO would issue a decision. In November, I was informed that the phosphate reference based on the business situation in 2013 was still not sent to the farmers. What is the state of play now? Returning to the planned General Measure of Governance, I note, first of all, that the Council of State has not had the opportunity to advise on this option. He did not issue any substantive opinion on the original bill. A General Measure of Governance may be preferred to prevent the formal legislator from sitting too much on the seat of the citizen or entrepreneur. However, sometimes the law is preferred. Although a General Measure of Management is not non-binding, in this case I have a strong preference for a legal anchoring of the minimum soil density for dairy farms. The Secretary of State could have taken an example from her minister, who arranged for the abolition of product and business boards, which we hope to vote on tomorrow, by law, although he could have done with a General Administrative Measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u76	I would like to ask Mr Holdijk a question about ground-boundness. Does Mr Holdijk's plea for ground-boundness mean that he is ground-bound in the vicinity of the farm? Or can he also agree with ground-boundness where a large amount of cows are kept in a megastal, where land is rented at a distance over which the manure can be run out?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you for this question. It is a question to which we will have to come back in the future of this debate, when it comes to the implementation of the AMvB. I will make a few specific comments on land-related issues later. For the moment, I think of land rather than land, perhaps within a circle of 5 to 10 kilometers from the location. Not only livestock farmers, but also farmers' land. But I've seen a distance standard of 20 kilometers pass somewhere. I do not think this would be preferable. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I would add that I am not necessarily in favour of a legal obligation for grazing. The planned AMvB can therefore now set limits on the percentage of manure processing. What that limitation is going to look like is not yet clear. According to Brussels, this can and should be done later, after 1 January. If that did not take place before 1 April, is the sword of Damocles perhaps again hanging over our heads? A fascinating question, I think. Doesn't the choice of the AMvB route imply that the Secretary of State will only be able to take action afterwards by limiting the number of animals of a company in violation? The Chambers will be closely involved in the implementation of the AMvB. That seems to be an advantage, which can be an advantage, but the Minister mentioned above, with whom the Secretary of State served together the Department, defended his choice of law and rightly so, I believe, with the argument that it increases parliamentary involvement and influence rather than reduces it, which may be the result of an AMvB. Finally, I would like to mention the ground-bound factor. The route to secure ground bondage becomes the subject of conversation, consultation, poldering, settling and folding by endlessly many parties. Hopefully there will be practical, workable proposals in the implementation of the ground-based approach. The government keeps a finger on the wrist or in the porridge. It is impossible to leave this aspect to regulation by the sector. The problem is that the dairy sector is unable to enforce the phosphate limit on its own 'nationals'. It is good that agreements have been or are being concluded, but they are not binding on individual farmers. In principle, the factor of "land density" should be that the manure can be used on own land via the short cycle for grass growth or for other feed from the land. A question in this context: is the determination of land-boundness taking into account differences between regions and different types of dairy farming? The phosphate ceiling should be distributed as fairly as possible. I'll conclude. Hopefully the law itself and the AMvB will help to prevent dairy farming from pursuing intensive livestock farming. The good image of the Dutch dairy farming..... we are the second dairy exporter of the world.... is precious but also vulnerable and should therefore not be put at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Zandbrink on his maiden speech. He has already shown that he knows considerably more about this sector than the last speaker in this debate. Secondly, I would like to express my condolences to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for the death of Mr Marijke Vos' husband. There has been much to do in a short time to discuss the bill we are discussing today and tomorrow. As we have heard this afternoon, there are big and diverse interests at stake. The debate is about the dairy sector, the environment, entrepreneurship, sustainability and animal welfare, but also about the quality of this legislation. I am not the regular spokesman in this area, but in a smaller group you have to be at home in hectic times of all markets, even from the cattle market. So I'll try. I am pleased to speak with this Secretary of State in this respect. We started together more than twenty years ago in the House of Representatives, but hardly ever met in a debate, on which side of the government table we sat. So that's what I'm making up for here. As far as my group is concerned, the dairy sector is a sector of great importance to the Dutch economy. After Germany, France and the United Kingdom, the Netherlands is the fourth producer in Europe, with over 17,000 dairy farms, about 1.5 million dairy cows and last year a milk production of over 12 billion kilos. We are talking about this law today because the European milk quota system will cease to exist in April, so in a few months' time. In this way, there is a view of the sector's growth. My group is not against growth, provided it can be responsible and sustainable growth. Growth means more cows, more milk and therefore more manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr De Graaf praises the 12 billion kilos of milk produced. Is he aware of the fact that this means around 15 billion kilos of greenhouse gas emissions? Does he think that this quantity of greenhouse gases can be produced in the Netherlands if we all try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions? Does he think that the Netherlands should produce for the world market, or that there should be much more regional production?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u80	I gave a factual view and no praises. I don't know where Mr. Koffeman distracted that from. I would also ask Mr Koffeman to just listen to my speech. It's a lot. As far as I am concerned, it is only responsible if there are good limits to growth. "The limits to growth" is also the title of a well-known book from the 1970s.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u81	Absolutely. That was a great book. I am not asking Mr De Graaf about the future and the growth of dairy farming, but about the current situation where 12 billion kilos of milk already causes around 15 billion kilos of greenhouse gas emissions. Does Mr De Graaf think that this situation should be contained? Or can this grow in a responsible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u82	I don't think it should be contained. In my view, responsible growth can only be possible if we set strong limits that are linked to the ground. I assume that I have given you a sufficiently clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u83	I would like to ask how Mr De Graaf thinks that these 15 billion kilos of greenhouse gas emissions fit into a climate policy in which we are trying to reduce that amount of greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u84	Climate policy is more comprehensive than just this part. This must therefore be seen in conjunction with other measures. I have no need to have a climate debate right now. I am now conducting the debate on dairy farming. Growth means, as I said, more cows, more milk and therefore more manure. It is at the heart of the matter that, with the quota expiry, the situation arises that manure production can grow without any guarantee of marketing for this additional production. This bill should provide these guarantees. The authorisation granted to the Netherlands to derogate from the Nitrates Directive could also be retained in this way. If the Netherlands loses the derogation, this will have financial consequences for the so-called 'graas livestock farmers', who use more than 170 kilos of nitrogen per hectare from manure. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly how many dairy farmers this is about? How many dairy farmers are above the standard in the directive with emissions? What financial consequences are we talking about exactly? I do not think that opinions are really divided as to the importance of the dairy farming sector to the Dutch economy. There's a big interest, regardless of whether you think it's too big or not. However, sustainability and environmental values are also clearly very important, as I said. If we want to maintain this important economic sector, and perhaps even expand it, we will have to adhere strictly to those values. In other words, the growth of dairy farming must be justified. In other words, within the environmental boundary conditions and in a balance between the company and its environment. The question is whether this can be sufficiently ensured with the present legislative proposal and the planned General Measure. In view of the fact that 60% of current dairy farmers do not have sufficient land to land their own phosphate production on their own land, I do not think that complete land-basedness is a realistic objective. The regional differences in our country are too great for this. That's one extreme. Nor is my group in favour of the other extreme, 100% manure treatment, where a farmer can have a large herd without the corresponding amount of land. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has not been able to do so since then, as was shown by the discussion of the legislative proposal that has taken place so far. In the note following the report, the State Secretary wrote that the legislative proposal ensures that companies that expand can place the extra phosphate they produce on their own land compared to the reference year 2013, or have it processed for 100%. A General Administrative Measure will determine, as the Secretary of State later stated, that the expansion of phosphate production should not only be compensated by manure processing, but should always be at least linked to land. The question that arises, of course, is: why is the 100% manure treatment option still in the legislative proposal? If that option was to become impossible with General Measure of Management, it would have been better to take it out in the letter of amendment. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Has the pressure on time or political pressure made it impossible to get that option out of the bill? How many dairy farmers who cannot place any of the expansion of manure production on their own land are we actually talking about? What size do I have to think about? Within the dairy chain, too, it is considered that, on the basis of this legislative proposal, it is possible for individual dairy farmers to develop in an "unwanted direction." According to the sector itself, 100% manure processing must be limited so that there is a balance between the number of cows and the available land. My group believes that this is an important signal. Moreover, the land-boundness and the associated grazing is increasingly decisive for the social acceptance of this sector in our country and therefore for individual companies in their region. The present law has been improved on an important part during the treatment in the Lower House. The General Measure may not only impose further restrictions on the expansion of dairy farms, but will actually do so; see the Dikkers' amendment. in piece No. 60 (33979). In addition, a heavy procedure has been imposed which will give the two chambers the opportunity to express their views on the concrete measures. This seems to me to be particularly important for the political primacy of the House of Representatives. Of course, it gnaws that in the final weighings of this bill, the House of Representatives could not yet have any insight into the content of this General Measure of Management. In fact, it is very doubtful whether the two chambers should accept that no substantive standard is set at the heart of the law itself on such an important core piece of legislation, but that it should only be referred to lower regulations, which can still be taken into account but can no longer be taken into account. Open provisions that are included in lower regulations do not have our preference; and then I express myself moderately. The question is whether the outline letter on the implementation of the AMvB, which was sent to us by the Secretary of State a few days ago, will remove the doubts about the quality of legislation. We continue to have great hesitations. After all, nothing changes about the system: the law is silent, the General Measure of Management actually regulates what should have been in the law. In addition, unfortunately, the main letter does not provide any clarity as to what exactly would be included in the General Measure, and that was the least we expected. I would also like to refer to the motion by our former colleague, Mr Smaling, who specifically asked the House of Representatives to come forward with information on how the AMvB is to be filled in. I can't tell that from the main letter. Three scenarios are outlined. They're called systematics. Unfortunately, I fear this is not Dutch. The three scenarios outlined have been examined by the Agricultural Economic Institute (LEI-WUR). The Secretary of State is now going to discuss this with the field. Does the House of Representatives now know what the General Measure of Management is going to look like? Do we know? Does the Secretary of State know? I'm afraid the answer has to be no three times. That's not helping. Moreover, the letter of 12 December from the Secretary of State shows something else, namely that the Agricultural Economic Institute has taken account of the maximum use of the so-called feed track by dairy farming. I remember that term, because it played an important role in Minister Van Aartsen's pig law about 17 years ago, which almost led to a political crisis. Figures from the CBS show at the same time that last year the phosphate content in concentrated feed was higher than in the previous year. So that's not a reduction, it's an increase. The Secretary of State himself believes that every effort should be made to remain below the phosphate production ceiling, which is a term "sustainable'. How real is that if that feed trail is actually already rocking? I would also like to hear more from the Secretary of State. It is clear that my group is initially not convinced of the quality of this legislation, given the content of the General Measure. Unfortunately, it is not helped by the letter from the Secretary of State on the content of these regulations. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to take us, in her reply, into the power of her arguments, to a tour of strength, and then without force. For this reason alone, we await her reply with great interest.
