ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. I want to talk to the Minister about 7+8+8. That's not a new plane. It's a construction. It's a contract of employment construction to avoid a well-meaning law. Last Saturday there was a detailed report in the Volkskrant of the discussion the Minister had with a number of people about the Work and Security Act. One of the participants was Mrs Van Gelder, a staff member with a permanent job. She explains what this 7+8+8 construction means. People who have a contract for more than two years will be reimbursed for their dismissal. The minister calls it a transition fee, but it's a discharge fee. However, people with a contract less than two years do not get it. So with less than 24 months, you don't have to pay that discharge. And what's that supposed to mean? You offer three contracts: one of seven months, one of eight months and one of eight months. Together, that's 23 months. Then you don't have to pay the discharge. In the newspaper, Mrs Van Gelder says: and this is not how the permanent contract is going to be. Everywhere is flexible expensive. If you want to fly at a fixed time, your ticket is cheaper than if you want to be able to choose at any time. That goes for a lot of other things. However, this does not apply to flexwork. That 7+8+8 construction is on the rise. I do not know if the Minister has looked at the Human Resources websites, but the construction is being fully promoted on them. In the magazine Zorgvisie, the magazine for the staff bosses, it says: everyone is eagerly looking for 23-month contracts, because then you do not have to pay a discharge fee. My question to the Minister is: does he want to fix this law, so that the dismissal allowance will also apply to people with contracts less than two years old, so that flex will be as expensive as fixed and so that flex people get a permanent job sooner, what was the intention of that law? Flex people should get a permanent job sooner. If flex stays cheaper than solid, it won't help, will it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Ulenbelt for his question. The cabinet represents a decent labour market. The Work and Security Act contributes to this. This law restores the balance between fixed and flex, because people with flexible contracts get more rights. It is not just a question of the chain clause, but also of the notice period, the expiry of the competitive clause, the limitation of the possibility of a probationary period and the six-month intervals, so that people do not enter a revolving door structure. And indeed, there is also the provision that after two years people must have the prospect of a fixed contract. That will not apply to everyone, as it is now, but after three years. However, the expectations are that for more people than now, after these two years, if the employer has been able to make a good impression on the employee, a fixed contract is in the pipeline. We have agreed in the Chamber that we are going to monitor this very closely, that we are going to evaluate this issue earlier, namely in 2018. The Court wants this law to achieve the objectives it stands for: to enable employers to employ people and to provide workers with prospects for permanent employment on time. Yeah, it's possible you'll be doing a 23-month contract later, just like you can make up a 35-month contract now. However, I would also like to refer here to the fact that the employers themselves have indicated that they are choosing quality and good employership. It was Bernard Wientjes who said in the House of Representatives that I opposed the idea that employers want to get rid of people as soon as possible after two years. After all, the recruitment costs are at some point higher than the transition fee, which starts to build up with a third month's salary per year of service worked. So, yes, we continue to keep a close eye on the fact that the law contributes to a decent labour market, a law in which Mr Ulenbelt, in view of his and Mrs Hammer's initiative at the time, can also find traces of his own efforts. But, no, we are not going now, just before the law enters into force on January 1st, the first parts and on July 1st, the new right of dismissal will change the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	So the minister doesn't want to fix it. I can see why the newspaper concluded after an hour's conversation: after an hour, the sense of an air-cycling minister has not disappeared. If you see a hole in the law, if there's a gaping hole under the waterline, you're not gonna let that ship, that Law Work and Security, in the coming year? If employers, staff bosses, care vision and other media call for 23-month contracts, isn't it obvious, I'm asking the Minister, that this isn't it, that you're launching a ship with a hole in the bottom? Then it sinks and the minister will look at it all. However, it is no fun to look at a ship that is launched and then sinks, is it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	I feel that with almost the entire Chamber we are pursuing the same goal, namely a decent labour market in which employers dare to recruit people again, where it is perfectly normal that an employee should start a temporary contract and that he should continue his best foothold, and in time it becomes clear whether it will be a permanent relationship, a marriage between employer and employee. Of course, more is changing than just this provision. The right of dismissal is gonna be different. If you have to fire people unexpectedly, it will be less expensive to do so, which makes it less fearful for employers to offer that permanent contract. We are going to make proposals to reduce the burden on labour, because they too are now preventing employers from hiring people. We also assume that employers opt for high-quality work. If you have someone who likes and does a good job, you know what you're up to after two years, don't you? Then why should the employer be so bad if Mr Ulenbelt thinks it is here? I see a lot of employers who have done everything through the crisis to hold on to their people and not to fire them. However, Mr Ulenbelt assumes that all employers are only looking to get rid of people as quickly as possible. No, many companies run well because they have loyal, productive, enthusiastic, hardworking employees. The relationship between employers and employees is changed by the Work and Security Act in favour of flex workers. We're gonna keep an eye on what that law does in practice. If he doesn't contribute to the targets, we'll adjust. We have already said this in reply to Mr Mulder's questions when dealing with the budget. However, we are now going to give that law a chance. I am a little more optimistic about this than your baptism of the law, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	There's no need to doubt my optimism. There's nothing wrong with that. The Minister just mentioned the bill I made with Mrs Hamer. That's where it was neatly arranged. Why would you distinguish between more than two years and less than two years? If you make short-term flex cheaper than long-term fix, isn't it logical that all those staff bosses and lawyers advertise for the 7+8+8 construction? So think about it under the Christmas tree, Minister. The law will enter into force on 1 July. Fix this, so that no ship with a hole in the hull will be launched and we will not be watching a spectacle with a sinking ship. It would be a shame if that happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'm definitely gonna think about that under the Christmas tree. I hope that Mr Ulenbelt will do the same and that from July 2015, when the ship is really going to sail, we will see what is happening in practice. There will indeed be workers who do not receive a fixed contract after the end of the two years or 23 months, as is already the case. Many of the people who wrote to me through the Volkskrant already had that experience. For more people the following balance will indeed be made: this strength does good work; it becomes less risky for me as an employer to hire someone, so we go on with each other. That balance changes. That may not go as far as Mr Ulenbelt would have liked. I respect that. However, I think Mr Ulenbelt sees the good points as well. He was very chivalrous about that at the Chamber Treatment. Together, let us not exaggerate under our own Christmas tree; it is not yet Christmas preparation for the entry into force of the law, but let us give that law a chance. We will follow how things work in practice. We're gonna speed up our evaluation. If necessary, we will intervene, as I promised the Chamber, but we will not do so in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Over the past few weeks we have talked in the Lower House about the Work and Security Act. I said in the debate on the budget that more and more people are saying: beware, Minister, because this law may be counterproductive. It was in the Volkskrant again. How does the Minister suggest this? More and more people are saying the law isn't gonna work. How do we prevent the Minister from becoming the proverbial motorist calling the Traffic Information Service with the announcement that 1,000 ghost drivers are coming at him?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	It's okay if people who are worried about the bill get in touch with this. De Volkskrant had invited readers to respond. 85 of the readers have made use of it. First of all, you see the effect that the 85 most enthusiastic people may not be the first to write. I don't know what the printout of that newspaper is, but it's really well above 85. Secondly, I refer to Mr Mulder. Mr Mulder thought it was a good legislative proposal, which was a very broad majority in the Chamber of PvdA, VVD, D66, ChristenUnion, SGP and the CDA. These parties say that it must work in practice. That applies to all laws. So we're going to evaluate in time. However, this is a good legislative proposal, which pushes the labour market in the right direction. The Chamber also says that it is not done with this and rightly so. You also have to do something about the burden on labor. There's got to be pay-as-you-go in case of illness. We want a decent labour market in the Netherlands. We do not say: all employers are bad, so let us not do labour law anymore, because people are getting out anyway. No, employers and employees together have opted for a decent labour market with all the scope for flexibility, but with opportunities for training and perspective on a fixed contract. This bill is designed to give shape to this. Every big change is exciting. Especially when that change comes close, we all get nervous. However, the bill is good according to a large majority in the Chamber, and I agree with that majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
