ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, like the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. I would particularly like to welcome the participants in the debate. Nine speakers have signed up. I must say in advance that Mrs Van Tongeren, who is second on the list of speakers, has indicated that she is still in general consultation. It would therefore like to speak as the last speaker. So she goes from second to ninth. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presence. After all, it was a short night. This presence is all the more appreciated for this important subject. We are approaching the end of the year, a year in which Europe would take a different approach. I refer to other elections to the European Parliament and a real struggle for the Commission. "New impetus" is written in metres high letters on the Berlaymont building in Brussels. That new momentum is needed. Confidence in Europe is low, confidence in the euro is low and confidence in Brussels is low. We see the Front National in France, the UKIP in Great Britain, the FPÖ in Austria, the Lega Nord in Italy, the Swedish Democrats in Sweden and the PVV in the Netherlands. We will have to come up with answers to this sentiment. The first Rutte cabinet of VVD, CDA and PVV chose to blow with the anti-European wind. Block positions, amend guidelines and weaken agreements. The second Rutte cabinet of VVD and PvdA opted for a standstill: no new initiative, but no relapse either. It was called no vistas. We heard: no more jumping than the wrist stick is long. My group has always said in this debate: but give us that picture of Europe in the future! Give me where it can be less! But also, where it might have to be more! The Commission is now trying to do so. There are priorities and new points. Commissioner Timmermans has a list of subjects and competences he wants to give back to the Member States. That's good. But of course, what we shouldn't do is lose ourselves in lists like that. Because if the crisis taught us one thing, it is that Europe must be agile and that politicians must be able to adapt. For my group, that will be a touchstone for this new start. What's that start look like? In any case, the start does not look as transparent as expected and hoped. The debate in Brussels took place over an hour before the proposal was even online. Back then, the beautiful video of Commissioner Timmermans was already online. And in the end, the program came. We saw 23 new points for 2015: Juncker's 300 billion, a package for the digital market, a framework for the Energy Union, a package for EMU, an agenda for migration. That looks good, at least on paper. We're just waiting to see what these plans are gonna look like. We would like to hear how the Netherlands, too, is in this context. Where are the odds? How are we going to set the agenda with the other Presidents, from Luxembourg and Slovakia? It is also interesting to see the idea of slimming down the European Union: fewer rules and simple legislation. The Commission says it will delete unnecessary laws. The question is, of course, what is unnecessary. For example, I think equal treatment is essential, but the Commission wants to delete an anti-discrimination directive. I think transparency is important, but the Commission wants to delete the law on access to documents. I heard Minister Opstelten won the Big Brother Award. Hopefully the cabinet still finds that deletion strange. How does the Cabinet assess the entire slimming? Is that enough or is that not enough? Then I'll get to the rest of the agenda. I would like to focus on foreign policy. This issue is actually missing from the 23 points that have been presented. Looking at the current situation in Sydney and Pakistan alone, we see challenges for free societies. Is there a role for the European Union here? Maybe we should establish that this is not the case. Do we have to think about it all the time? We certainly do. The Council will talk about Turkey. We've been seeing problems with that country for months. When critical journalists were arrested this weekend, a statement came from the Union, but Erdogan laughed at it. The President of Turkey is playing with fire. Clearly, leaders like him know what they're doing. What is needed is a clear vision of the European Union. And not just one step at a time. We also need to know clearly what the second step and the third step will be: predictable and transparent. Is that what we're gonna do? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister? Does foreign representative Mogherini fly to Ankara for consultation? Is that the Dutch government's commitment? Then I'll get to the CIA's report. The European Union will also have to look at the mirror in this dossier. Poland has admitted that there was a black site there. That's it? Or is there more? Are we interested in that? Will the Council also discuss this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u3	My question is about Turkey. There must be clarity about step two and step three. What are step two and step three in relation to Turkey and the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u4	This will have to be demonstrated when the pulse stick has been measured in 28 Member States. After picking up journalists, I find it dangerous to shoot them out of the hip and yell something in the vein of "we'll give them less money," without knowing how to walk the escalation ladder together. They are somewhat incomparable, but still, the reactions towards the Russians and the reactions towards the Turks only make sense if you do not fall apart during that process, and when predictable and transparent is clear what the next step is. In the beginning it was very difficult for the Russians, but then it turned out to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u5	I don't have an answer to my question as to what step 2 and step 3 are. We are now dealing with a President of Turkey who says: 'Brussels, mind your own business'. He violates the freedom of the press and makes statements about women who are debatable. The values of the Union are at stake. Could it be with regard to step 2 and step 3 that we are entering another process of negotiation, which does not result in EU membership?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u6	I'm not ruling anything out. On the other hand, we must ensure that if we try to take action against the Turks, we do not touch the ordinary population. I mention, for example, the provision of protection, as the Netherlands does until January with the Patriots. This is something that protects the people and perhaps reduces the burden on those in power. They're losing face. That's why I think predictability is important. Mr Segers is now trying to draw me into a discussion on whether or not this ultimately means membership. That's his right. Now, if that membership is to come, it is very far away. It is precisely because it is important for the Turks and because it is important for us that they continue to look our way, there are opportunities. Finally, I come to Russia. The Americans are coming up with new sanctions. What is the Union going to do? We also know that Marine Le Pen, an ally of the PVV, borrows money from Russia, namely EUR 9 million. I'd like to know what the cabinet thinks about that. It's about undermining the European Union, isn't it? Isn't it about facilitating pro-Russian PR? That is, at least, very remarkable. My colleague Bertema from the PVV said here last week: we, the PVV, are not getting money from Putin. However, we cannot control that. Shouldn't this be transparent, even at European level? That's how I ask the Prime Minister. I'm rounding up. We are going into a celebration, at least that is what I see in my agenda. Groups are going to dine and drink, but the Prime Minister has yet to go to Brussels for the last Council of this year. My group wishes him every success and hopes that 2015 will really be that new start for Europe. It's gonna be on or off.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to make a comment on Turkey. Now that things have gone wrong recently, the criticism of the VVD suddenly sounds much more convincing than in Albania's time. The CDA too has had enough of the developments in Turkey, and both sides have said that they want to ask the European Union to suspend or restrict financial aid. We welcome this critical attitude. Talks with Turkey on accession have been going on for some 12 years; this has been going on for so long. In December 2014, the cabinet must come to the conclusion that developments in recent years are undoubtedly causing concern. It is finally recognised that there are major dangers to the Turkish rule of law. What else should we think of the change in the law that restricts the freedom of the Internet, or of the violation of the autonomy of the Supreme Court for judges and prosecutors, of mass transfers and dismissals from the judiciary and the police, or of the persecution of journalists, the recent raids on newspaper editorials and the mass arrests there? These developments make it clear that Turkey is not connected with the most important European values such as separation of powers and fundamental rights and freedoms; values that are essential. In the meantime, the cabinet's adage is: no further expansion. In Europe we hear that sound too. Croatia was the last country to join, and it is now clear that during Mr Juncker's term no more countries will join, at least as he himself said, for what that is worth at the moment. None of the seven countries in the waiting room is sufficiently prepared for full membership at this time. For us today's question is whether this critical attitude towards a number of prospective members should also lead to a definitive setback. We are particularly concerned here with Turkey, which is rather provocative of the EU's criticism. Or is it not provocative, I ask the Prime Minister, that President Erdogan says: we are not concerned about what the EU would say and whether the EU accepts us as a Member State? "We don't have such concerns," he said, "please keep your wisdom to yourself." Not only do we have serious concerns at CDA and VVD about the negative trends in Turkey regarding the independence of the judiciary and the protection of fundamental rights. It is not for nothing that CDA and VVD want to end EU support for Turkey. Just like Mr Omtzigt of the CDA and Mr Verheijen of the VVD, our electorate is tired of paying for the hundreds of millions that go to Turkey every year to support the accession process. Fortunately, for this accession process to end, a majority will be achieved here today, with the support of the VVD and the CDA, but we want a step further, if possible. We believe that our government in Brussels should focus on stopping the accession negotiations, on withdrawing Turkey's EU candidate status and on recovering all the funds that Turkey has received from IPA, that is that instrument for pre-accession aid. That's a lot of money. It adds up to about EUR 6 billion. Can the Prime Minister give an opinion on this? Mr. Chairman. I have to shorten my speech a little bit, because time is running out, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u8	You have three and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u9	Let's see. Something about the exit premium for Mr Van Rompuy, the former President of the European Council. Does the Prime Minister share our opinion and the opinion of many of our constituents that a generous exit bonus of around €349,000 does not pass at a time when many of our Dutch citizens have lost their jobs, suffered economically from SMEs, there are disastrous bankruptcies and Dutch politics has done everything to balance the top incomes? In such a time, such an exit grant does not, as far as we are concerned, give a pass. The PVV therefore invites the Prime Minister to call on Mr Van Rompuy to refrain from this departure scheme out of sympathy with the unemployed and impoverished citizens of Europe. That would be a nice gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u10	The PVV is worried about money to the Turks. The PVV is concerned about money to the former President of the European Council. I am concerned about Russian money that, directly or indirectly, goes to parties like the Front National, with which the PVV sits together in a political group in Europe. Now Mr Beertema said earlier in a general discussion that he excluded Russian money from the PVV. I'm asking him to confirm that here again. Does he exclude that money from Russia, directly or indirectly, to influence European democracy, has gone to the PVV? Does Mr Beertema agree with me that, given that his friends from the National Front have received up to 9 million in loans from Putin, Europe needs to get to the bottom of that and ensure that parties such as Front National are not financed by the Russians?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u11	In that AO that question was already asked to me by GroenLinks. To answer the last question: I am not talking about the flows of money from the Front National, a party from another country, an autonomous France, with its own mandate. Who am I to make statements about that? I don't know anything about that either. I know as much as you do, and we'll get that out of the paper. As far as our own money flows are concerned, I am treasurer of the PVV Support Foundation and that is extremely transparent. I refer you to our annual reports. I refer you to the accountant of the House of Representatives, and that seems sufficient to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u12	Treasurer Beertema here excludes that Russian money has ended up directly or indirectly at the PVV. Well, I'm helping him hope that's sustainable in the future. I note, however, that Mr Bertema says that these are flows of money that go from one country to another, so this is a matter of autonomy and I have little sense of it. Now I usually feel that PVV's, although they have little sense of something, always have an opinion about it. In this case, I understand the inconvenience. After all, your political friend, Marine Le Pen, is funded from the Kremlin. However, my question is still not answered by Mr Beertema. I asked him if he would agree with me that, for example, the European Council should insist on full transparency of parties such as the National Front, so that the Russians do not have any influence in this way on parties with little sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u13	I would just like to ignore all the dedain that lies in the second layer under Mr Pechtold's question with regard to PVV's in general and me in particular. I can tell him that the PVV is obviously in favour of transparency about money flows from other countries. I say again that the Front National is entirely responsible for itself. I assume that Mr Pechtold's group is enough to find out for itself, if there is anything to find out. For the rest, I would advise Mr Pechtold to come up with some evidence or something together with Mr Klaver van GroenLinks. There are constant insinuations about money flows from Russia, insinuations that we see here almost weekly. It used to be about money flows from Israel, now it's about money flows from Russia again, so it's always something. Let Mr. Pechtold come up with proof. Then we'll talk more. The treasurership I'm responsible for is as transparent as anything. The details of this can be seen everywhere, even here in the Chamber. So "get off my back."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u14	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u15	Good. The PVV considers that the Netherlands should act against Mr Juncker's European Fund for Strategic Investments. We are already contributing to many European guarantee funds. So there will now be another guarantee fund. This is intended to encourage projects that are so risky that private investors need to be crossed over. Who is at risk now, I ask the Prime Minister. Who's gonna pay the bills for the projects that get out of hand? Who selects these projects? Who guarantees the taxpayer that it will not be projects like the sound screens project in the Polish hinterland where no one lives? Who guarantees that the jobs created by these projects are real jobs? Where did the 8 billion come from in the European budget? Hasn't that money been earmarked for a long time or already spent on commitments? I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. At present, the EIB lends 70 billion a year on favourable terms to all kinds of projects and to banks. Last year, the bank received 10 billion, which should ultimately generate 180 billion in additional investment. Many Member States believe that the intended growth effect is not possible because the bank is taking too little risk. But is it now the intention of this fund to pass risk on to that Dutch taxpayer? Isn't it much wiser, I'm asking the Prime Minister not to do this? Explain in Brussels that we cannot have this. Let us refrain from participating in this fund. We ask the leaders and especially the Prime Minister to make that effort at the forthcoming summit. I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. Mr Pechtold just spoke somewhat eagerly about the approaching Christmastreces. I can imagine the Prime Minister sharing that with him. I can imagine that he has lived more quietly to a Christmas tree and I am referring, of course, to the forthcoming European summit. I wish him a great deal of strength to keep his attention. I have a number of preliminary questions that I would like to give the Prime Minister. These questions concern the budgetary standards and the exceptional position once again granted to countries such as France, Italy and Belgium; they have again been postponed until March 2015. My group is deeply concerned that these standards are being discussed again with a great deal of coulance. What guarantees has France given in exchange for this coulance? Can I assume that if France does not comply with the agreements in March, it is really over and out, and that there are consequences? My group also has two important questions about the investment fund that is on the agenda. First of all, a question about the size of the fund that has been virtually pumped up to 300 billion. How real are these amounts? How solid is the foundation among these amounts? My second question is this. We are setting up a huge fund to finance projects. Are we sure that this huge infrastructure is more effective than what the individual countries are doing? Can the Prime Minister go into that again? As far as the work programme is concerned, we have seen Commissioner Timmerman's ambitious approach and he has a lot on his plate. We can support many of them. We support his efforts towards a more sober and efficient European Commission, but there are concerns about the approach to the environment. There are rumours that an economic package and an air quality package would not be implemented. I would like an update on this, because I have heard several reports about it. It would have been withdrawn and nuanced again, so please have a reaction to that. At least I'd like to give you those concerns. Then there is also a discussion on TTIP with the intention of reaching an agreement by the end of 2015. This concerns the position of national parliaments. I read a statement by Minister Ploumen last Sunday that she wants Parliament to have more control over the agreement that has so far been a matter for the European Commission. My question is: how does that get hands and feet? How can we prevent us from getting to grips with facts with an agreement that has enormous implications for our standards and for our legislation? How can this promise get hands and feet? I also have a question on a motion adopted by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Dijk, which states that we must abandon the ISDS clause. How does the government view this and how does the government deal with it? There is more to this motion, but France has taken up the same position. What is the government's position on that point? There have long been great concerns within our group about Turkey, about developing the rule of law and the growing gap between Europe and Turkey. Once again, we have seen worrying signals from arrested journalists, the servants of the press, the independent justice under pressure and a statement by Mr Erdogan: Brussels, mind your own business! My question to the cabinet is the following. Pre-accession financial assistance can be used to put additional pressure on the Member States to respect the fundamental values of the rule of law. If this is not done properly as it is now, then there must also be financial consequences. My question is: can we freeze or restrict pre-accession aid to Turkey? My last question concerns the Europe-wide debate on the possible recognition of the Palestinian State. So far only Sweden has made that recognition, the European Parliament has expressed its opinion on it and it is a growing debate. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees with the Christian Union Group that recognition is not only unsafe at the moment, but can also be detrimental to the resumption of the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. This European Summit will focus on President Juncker's investment plan. This plan assumes that European guarantees of some 21 billion will lead to investments of up to 315 billion by industry. How real is it? Captains of industry in Italy and France blame the Commission for a lack of strategic vision and accuse it of wishing. Aren't the industrialists just right? The SP thinks so. What does this fund actually add to the investment opportunities and why should it function better than what is already available? Is the expected result, a leverage of fifteen times the European money guaranteed to the public and invested privately, justified? Juncker wants to clear that money mainly for infrastructure projects. But SEPS, the well-known European think tank, does not believe that at all. Of the annual investment of 2600 billion across the EU, only 260 billion, i.e. around 10%, goes to infrastructure investments. The question is, therefore, how viable Mr Juncker's investment plan is, given that there must be demand for infrastructure projects. Or are we going to come to one of the previous speakers who referred to nonsensical projects such as screens that are not wanted or, as in the case of Poland, airports that are not used? A lot of money is then spent, possibly even public money, on things that are not at all used to in Europe. The Commission focuses, inter alia, on long-term investment in energy, transport, broadband, research and development and education. But aren't these long-term projects long-term subsidised? Even if that is not the case, how real is it that such a sum of around 300 billion will be spent on our economy within three years? Long-term projects generally require a longer duration and long-term plans. When it comes to self-deserving effects, for example in the area of public infrastructure and energy supplies, isn't it more obvious to leave these investments to national governments, especially now that interest rates are so low and debt-making is net more than it costs? To mobilise 325 billion, certain parts of the EU budget should be used differently at European level and in the Member States. Can the Prime Minister explain which parts of the respective budgets are concerned? Many Member States are rightly critical of the functioning of the European Investment Bank. The EIB would take too little risk and therefore the previous increase in the EIB's capital of 10 billion would not work. Does the Prime Minister share this criticism? How much of the EUR 180 billion that the injection of EUR 10 billion into the EIB was supposed to yield in 2012 has finally been achieved? Projects that benefit most from the new fund are the most risky projects, where financiers are now afraid to invest money in. However, the EIB claims that it has already doubled its risk for its loans between 2007 and 2013. Will supply and demand find each other here, given these facts? Are the EIB's selection criteria adequate to meet the desired investment impulse? What cultural change has taken place at the EIB, which can now count on an investment wave? The cabinet criticises the creation of a pipeline of concrete projects and an investment hub. My group shares that criticism. The Commission has once again tried to achieve an economic growth miracle through creative language. Moreover, there is a great chance that we will carry out hub tasks that can be carried out just as well by existing bodies, such as the EIF or points of contact at national level. What is the concrete commitment of the Cabinet to the involvement of national governments, the private sector and other stakeholders in the implementation of the pipeline? What role does the Prime Minister see for the Member States' investment task force? How is it ensured that the money reaches the countries where investment power is weakest? Does the Prime Minister share the view that Member States and national institutions are best placed to decide where investment is most needed? SMEs are mainly active in national markets. A so-called independent investment committee is about to assess which projects are priced. Unfortunately, the cabinet is not critical about this. This is not in line with the criticism of the pipeline and an investment hub. My group does not see any reason why a committee of technocrats from Brussels should decide which investments from the wish list of the Netherlands will be honored. Why is the cabinet in favour of this? The use of funds from the Investment Fund is subject to conditions by the Commission. According to the Commission, the Investment Plan complements Member States' efforts to implement structural reforms and to implement responsible fiscal policies. Should we not fear that the situation will arise in which Brussels lays down the conditions, whereas the Member States cannot decide for themselves what the money is spent on, but that the Member States will pay for any losses? Once again, Brussels is drawing power towards itself, at the expense of the sovereignty of Member States. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. My group shares the view that a Keynesian investment plan is an appropriate means of getting out of the crisis, but Juncker's investment plan is nothing like what my party has in mind. We would much rather see investment being made at national level by a democratically elected government which can decide which sectors need financial support most. A national investment bank that meets the needs of the poor SMEs would certainly not be an unnecessary luxury here. My party already launched a proposal for this in 2009. Not Brussels, but we ourselves know best what is good for us. With that last point of view, the Prime Minister can't disagree, can he? The leaked conclusions of the European Council show that the debate on continuing to centralise and strengthen economic governance in Europe has been postponed for the time being. My party welcomes that. The Prime Minister will not be surprised that the disgust of the neoliberal straitjacket that Brussels wants to put on the Member States is increasing. That's a good thing. Last week, the IMF warned against a collapse of the Ukrainian economy. The European Union would be ready to provide further support for the reform process in Ukraine. Last Thursday, the Ukrainian Government asked for financial support and a recovery plan for the economy, because otherwise it would not be able to meet its obligations. What is the government's reaction to this appeal from the Western partners? What does this mean for the support package of 17 billion promised until 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. The European Union must be dismantled. We must go back to the core: economic cooperation between sovereign countries. Like Nigel Farage, leader of our UKIP sister party, we believe that the European Union is undemocratic. The unelected European elites are hardly accountable and give each other well-paid jobs. Frans Timmermans knows all about that. Turkey's possible accession to the European Union will have disastrous consequences. Erdogan has abolished the freedom of the press. Turkey does not fit in with Europe and should never join the European Union. In the context of the accession negotiations, Turkey receives 600 million from the European Union each year. That's gotta stop. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. More and more parliaments in Europe recognise a Palestinian state. My group wants this cabinet to declare its readiness not to recognise a Palestinian state. Terrorism must never be legitimized. The Netherlands must stand as one man behind Israel, the only democratic rule of law in the Middle East. Last week in Swedish airspace a Russian military plane almost crashed with a passenger plane, again an aggressive provocation from the Kremlin. The sanctions against Putin need to be tightened up. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. I'm closing up. The transatlantic link is currently under pressure in many European Union Member States. Too many European politicians look at Vladimir Putin with great admiration. I'm referring to Marine Le Pen from Front National. Le Pen even calls for a departure from NATO and further encourages anti-Americanism in France and Europe. That attitude undermines security in Europe. We would like to hear from the cabinet that the Netherlands guarantees the age-old relationship with our Atlantic allies 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. Almost 50 days this European Commission is now there. This is also the first European Council for this new Commission. It is too early to take stock, but it is never too early to give the first impressions. The first impression is that this new European Commission is serious about transforming the signal that has been sent widely from Europe, including in the elections, into a new Brussels sound. I have said it before: this European Commission is more Dutch than ever. When I look at the agenda, at the intentions and intentions, at the agenda of Timmermans and his place and at the organisation of the new Commission, I am confident that these intentions are good. That's good news. This also shows that it is useful to be critical from the Netherlands. We can do something there. I will address three issues today: the new work programme, the enlargement agenda and the economic strength of Europe. The new work programme looks hopeful: more focus, fewer new proposals and for the first time also a scraping list, a list of proposals to be withdrawn. At the beginning of next year, Timmermans will come up with a list of things that are actually not being done anymore, tasks that are being returned to the Member States. We are very curious about that. However, the resistance to the list is also strong, we already notice. I think this is a positive sign. It is a sign that something is actually happening and that a new wind is actually blowing. It also shows that it won't be easy. The European Parliament will also have to understand that not everything is a European problem and that everything does not need to be dealt with at that level. From the lobby clubs will indeed sound disappointment; we received the letters within the last few days. But I am also looking at the Prime Minister of the Member States in this regard, too, and I will have to understand that some things do not need to be regulated there, because a lot of new rules also come from the Member States, from the European Councils of Ministers, from the European Council. "Less rules, more off" is a plan that we share, but I ask the Prime Minister about the European Council. Is that also where the atmosphere of this work programme is being exhaled? Is it also agreed that all these European Councils of Ministers will be reluctant to ask the Commission for new proposals? I think it is really necessary for the European Parliament and the Member States to breathe out the same atmosphere as the Commission is doing now. I come to speak about enlargement. There is a clear, new tone, we found last week. We called the conclusions a trend break, more sober, more realistic and more critical than ever. Enlargement is clearly no longer a top priority for this new European Commission. We discussed the situation in Turkey in detail earlier. Previous speakers have expressed all their concerns. The series of incidents in the past year was huge. There were a lot of incidents. Last Sunday, after the debate we had last week, there was another very serious incident, which, as far as we are concerned, added a new low in the collection of more than twenty editors and journalists. Is that a problem? Yes, that is a problem for a country with European aspirations. It is also a problem for a country with which we cooperate a great deal, an ally of ours. And yes, Turkey remains of great importance to us at geopolitical and economic level, but that does not mean that it can make everything. My image is........................................................................................................................... We, the Netherlands, condemn this, are critical of it and want to use the accession aid, the pre-accession funds, to show Turkey that we are serious, that it cannot do this and that we condemn it. I would like to thank the cabinet for making an explicit reference to this at the beginning of this week at the General Affairs Council. This has led to a tightening of the conclusions against Turkey. That's good. We can't be clear enough. Erdogan's reaction this week was confronting again and very clear. He actually said, mind your own business. However, if a country has European aspirations, we will not do so. We are critical and condemn Turkey. I would also like to thank the cabinet for raising the issue of accession aid and for the proposal to actually shorten it. I am disappointed that the Netherlands was alone in this, that the other Member States do not want to go along with this and that they do not want to link these funds to the progress of the country. That's disappointing. The VVD Group will continue to raise this point. I hope that this will also be widely supported in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u20	Very specifically, I ask the VVD: what is she going to do? Will it suspend, reclaim or reduce those funds? What exactly is the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u21	That was our commitment. We explicitly asked for this last week. After Monday's incidents, I asked the Minister again in writing on Monday, together with Mr Omtzigt. He agreed to that. Last night we also received the report. He brought it into the European Council, but it didn't work. Mr Beertema asked what the VVD would do. The VVD inserted it. I think this was worn widely in this room. However, a qualified majority is needed in the European Council and there was no such majority. In fact, we read that the Netherlands was alone at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u22	And then you're gonna stand down and move on to the order of the day? Is that the idea? Or are you going to go along with our motion in which we call on the Prime Minister to bring this to the attention of the House once again and simply to stop these funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u23	That was done on behalf of the Netherlands. The Netherlands was alone in this. I am not going to ask the Prime Minister to raise this again in the same forum tomorrow. Even then, the Netherlands will be on its own. I do want the Netherlands to continue to propagate this and to emphasise that these funds must be linked to progress. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about this. If there is no progress, or even deterioration in this case, those funds should simply be frozen, cut or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u24	Just now Mr Pechtold said that you have to offer perspective and that there has to be clarity about step two and step three. He even said that Turkey's membership of the EU may well be further away than we now think. I have heard Mr Verheijen say in the media that he thinks it will never happen. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u25	That's right. I will never see Turkey join the EU. I can see that Turkey is rapidly heating up and running away from European values. Realistically speaking, I never see it coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u26	Then how fair is it to continue the conversations, to negotiate endlessly on very essential things, when you know it will never work out? Isn't it much fairer to choose a different path, apart from EU membership, where consideration is given to partnership and good economic links? Shouldn't we go on a different path than the one we already know is dead end?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u27	We've had this debate before. It's a fair question. If Turkey wants to get rid of candidate membership, it can indicate it tomorrow. Turkey can call us tomorrow. I think we can stop then. Turkey constantly says that it still considers this important. However, it does something completely different. Let me just be very practical: I am not in favour of unilaterally withdrawing a candidate from Europe. I'd almost say I don't want to do Erdogan that pleasure. That makes it too easy for him to say in Turkey: see, this is what we Europe are worth. Then we give him too easy a position. He keeps saying that he adheres to European values. Then he'll have to show it to us, and he'll have to give butter to the fish. He won't. He is the one who constantly runs away from EU membership. Let that be clear. The ball's with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u28	The representative of the VVD is a bit of a spectator of the stage. He does not see Turkey joining, and he notes that something happened yesterday, and after he announced it, he himself has no influence. Does Mr Verheijen and the VVD not see it coming or is the VVD simply opposed to Turkey ever having the chance to join?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u29	I don't see it, ever, coming this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u30	That's not an answer. I just asked a very clear question. Now I have to spend my second interruption on this. Mr President, perhaps you will then allow me a third interruption if it remains so unclear. I was just asking about the discrepancy between "not seeing it come" and putting you on the sidelines as the largest party of the Netherlands powerless and simply saying that it doesn't come from the VVD. The word "never" just fell, but still in the form of "I never see it coming." Is the VVD just against it? That is my clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u31	Together, from the Netherlands and from the EU, we made a two-sided agreement with Turkey on membership, sometime in the future, or at least on candidate membership. In this respect, I see that Turkey does not adhere to the agreed matters and to European values. It is not making any progress on these points either. As far as we are concerned, the ball lies with Turkey and I never see it coming this way. I am not going to break the agreement we have ever made unilaterally from our side, from the Netherlands and from Europe. As far as we're concerned, a deal is a deal. I see that Turkey is in no way keeping that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Pechtold, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u33	Now it's getting interesting. "A deal's a deal" and "we've never agreed to it." Wilders was pushed out of the VVD because of this position. Now the VVD's on that point, but the deal's still on. So it could happen someday, just like the deal was made in the past. The VVD just finds it a little difficult to say that at this stage. I understand that, because I very much share the concerns about the future in Turkey, but be honest. People who understand this kind of debate less often do not understand that you are playing a game here. I'd like to expose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u34	As so often, I have to say that whoever plays the game is against me. I note that Turkey is not doing anything to honour any agreements that have ever been made. I see that Turkey is an important ally for us in geopolitical and economic terms in that region. I am not going to do Turkey a favor by canceling that agreement from our point of view. I am not in favour of withdrawing from membership. I just don't see it coming this way. That also gives me a certain kind of relaxation. Turkey clearly does not care about what Europe thinks. I come to the point of strong Europe. A large part of the agenda will again be filled with financial and economic issues in the coming days. That's right. We see some light in Europe, but in general our continent, the euro area, remains a concern for growth. This is a shame, and I think it is unnecessary, because I am convinced that Europe is not only a continent with a beautiful past but certainly also a continent of the future, and that with everything we have in Europe, we can also simply benefit from the emergence of the new middle class in China and Africa and the new economies. In that sense, I am optimistic about Europe, as long as we do the right things: do what is necessary together, do what can be done separately, but at least handle the opportunities that we have. I think that the European Commission's failure to approve the French budget is a good sign. That is a clear signal to France and also a clear signal that patience with France has run out in all those countries that have reformed in recent years. France must now deliver, cut back and reform. France should not only announce this, but also actually do so. It is important not only for us to reform and cut back, but also for us to invest, as has often been said. A lot of people mean investing from the public authorities, so that governments spend more money than they come in. We are always talking about investments from private parties. They must have confidence in Europe and in Europe's strength and systems. They must trust that Europe is the continent of the future. This confidence requires something, namely that the EU shows that it is serious. I think I should congratulate the European Commission on having been able to satisfy all those countries that want to invest with the Fund that is now before us, the EFSI, and that it has been able to take these countries with it and have shown that investment is on the agenda and that at the same time it has remained within the framework set by us. No new money has been deployed from the European Member States or from the ESM. Similarly, the EIB's triple-A status has not been affected. I sincerely hope that the fund that is now being set up can mean something for investment and for the strength of Europe and that it will actually attract private investment. This proposal will be dealt with in the near future by an accelerated legislative procedure. We will be paying very close attention to Mr Van Bommel's comments on all kinds of issues which need to be taken into account when it comes to the effect that, for example, it will not be political decisions which projects will be selected and which will not be selected and which projects will really be profitable and have significance for jobs and growth and for Europe. The Netherlands, like other countries, has submitted a large number of projects, which I hope will soon be selected and actually come to fruition. Is this fund a miracle cure? No, certainly not, and that is why I am also pleased that the agenda for the forthcoming Council includes a number of issues that Europe still has to do, such as strengthening the internal market, in particular the digital internal market and the energy market, and improving the functioning of the Union. We also see this in the work programme, but I hope that the Member States too are really serious about it. The development of roaming charges and the digital single market has not been very hopeful lately. The ambition to abolish roaming charges by the end of 2015 seems no longer feasible, as I now estimate. I see that several countries are being obstructed, which I believe is a very wrong signal. Does the Prime Minister see any other way of giving new impetus to this agenda for the internal market, the services market and the digital market from the Netherlands, the Parliament? After the investment fund, I am afraid that precisely those kinds of initiatives that are necessary will remain a little behind. Finally, I have a question about Hamas. The EU Court today decided that Hamas was not sufficiently substantiated on the European Union's terrorist list and gave the Union the opportunity to take a new decision on it. I hope that the Netherlands will promote rapid action and that Hamas will soon be put back on that terrorist list with a new and better foundation. I think this is very important, because it is impossible for us that Hamas is not on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the European Council of 18 and 19 December. That is where Europe is on the agenda internally and what is important for the European Union, namely to promote the European economy sustainably, as well as jobs and jobs, including for young people. The PvdA welcomes the fact that this one-sided austerity policy is now being brought to an end and that it is being complemented by an investment agenda and a Commission work programme. In 60 years, the European Union has brought peace to the continent that was torn apart by wars for a century. Through cooperation, economic and political, old enemies have joined together. However, we now see that this cooperation does not bring the citizens of the Union what people are looking for today: sustainable economic growth, prosperity and the prospect of their children getting it better than their parents. This has indeed been the case in Europe over the last 60 years. The parents or grandparents of my generation often grew up in poverty but there was progress optimism, a perspective; the next generation could often get it a step better than the previous one: better education, better health care, better housing and so on. That belief of progress is now at stake. That is why it is very important that the European Union also does what it has been set up for, namely that peace, prosperity and well-being really bring about the much-needed security of life. That is the task of the European Union now. Only when this happens in the coming years will the Member States and the citizens of the Union continue to feel that connection. I'm sure we're stronger together. Member States of the European Union can and must work together on the security of existence and the connection, also because the world around us brings uncertainty. Other countries are making a fuss of us in the economic field. Landing near us implode. We need a common response to this. I come to a few points that are on the Council's agenda. Yesterday, the Commission presented the work programme for 2015 in Strasbourg. The Commission's starting point for creating jobs, sustainable growth and investment is very appealing to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u36	Let me come back to the introduction of the PvdA. It is, after all, a mistake to link the beliefs of our grandparents and parents, who got it better, generation by generation, with the European Union. That has everything to do with our own Dutch values: the hard work, the solidity and the economy with which we have built our economy. That is in stark contrast to the coercive measures that we are now being imposed on us from Europe to cut back, which is killing our entire economy. I want you to distance yourself from that equation, Mrs. Maij. You may think what you want, as a cheer monkey of the EU, but you must not identify this Dutch history with the success of the EU. You should distance yourself from that, if you know your history.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u37	For someone who has just said to a colleague that he spoke with a lot of dedain, I would like to say that you are also somewhat presumptuous in the way you interpret my statements now. That is a completely free interpretation, because I spoke about a period of 60 years. You've also studied history and even taught, I believe. If you think this has nothing to do with the European Union, I would like to say to you: dive into those books again. The initiative for better regulation of Vice-President Frans Timmermans is a prominent part of this. The PvdA is pleased that it is not only about fewer rules, but also about better regulation. The program contains a roaring introduction. It stresses the Commission's commitment to a short but strong agenda for growth and jobs. The effect of this is for the time being a mixed injury. The active growth and jobs section is actually limited to Juncker's investment plan. For the rest, it is striking that many proposals are being withdrawn because they have been being dealt with for a long time in the Council or in the European Parliament. In this context, a great deal has already been said in the past week about, for example, the proposals for strengthening environmental standards. As a supporter of green growth and innovation, we were disappointed in the intention to withdraw the proposals for better air quality and waste reduction. Fortunately, however, last week the cabinet indicated that it would share our position, which became clear again yesterday during the VAO on the Environment Council. Now we heard Commissioner Timmermans in the European Parliament yesterday also talk about sustainable growth. He said that the objectives for better air quality, for example, are not abandoned. That reassures us a little. I would ask the Prime Minister to clarify this matter in the Council. Does he also consider that better air quality is of paramount importance to our society? This is typically one of those appointments that you can't just make nationally or locally. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Perhaps, in this context, the cabinet could ask the Commission for clarification on a somewhat cryptic passage from the programme. It says, and I apologize for doing this in English, but I only have the program in English: "The Commission remains strongly committed to the objectives of the fixed majority of the proposals it proposes to draw." This obviously applies to the withdrawal of the environmental proposals, if I have followed the debate in the European Parliament properly. But what new plans will replace that? What is the commitment of our government? In the social field, the Labour Party considers the targeted revision of the Detachment Directive to be somewhat too limited. As we said earlier, we want a fundamental review, as the Commission promised earlier. We would like to urge the cabinet to also tackle cross-border false self-employment at European level. The work programme contains some new proposals in the field of social policy. There will be a labour mobility package to combat abuse through better coordination of social security systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u38	As far as I am concerned, the spokesperson of the PvdA rightly expressed concerns about the development of the environment, but I also mentioned issues such as anti-discrimination and access to documents. My group thinks: you may want fewer rules in Europe, but pay attention to what you throw away. Does the PvdA agree with me that these are, besides the environment, also important things that Europe should not be too quick to distance itself from?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u39	Yes. That is a short answer, in order to facilitate the debate. There will also be a labour market integration package. This package contains measures to follow up the implementation of the Youth Employment Plan, a proposal for integration of the long-term unemployed and measures to further develop skills. The PvdA evaluates this positively at first instance, but the impact is of course important. How does the Prime Minister and the Cabinet view this? We also think that there is little in it about tax evasion. None of the demands made by the S&D Group in the European Parliament, for example, are really translated into legislative proposals. Is the government still going to press for a speedy approach? What does the cabinet think of the action plan against tax avoidance that was still appointed yesterday in the European Parliament, at least by President Juncker, if I remember correctly? Like I said, we see it as mixed injury. We are certainly talking about a number of things. It is good that there will be a review of trade agreements and their contribution to employment, economic growth and investment. What will happen to the results of the review? It is also positive that the European Commission has the ambition to review the European migration system, but which way is it going? Among other things, the Commission wants to improve the Blue Card system. What is the commitment of the Netherlands on this point? Then there is the Commission's investment plan. The cabinet states that in principle the Commission's initiative is to be welcomed. We also support this initial appreciation. In general, as I understand it, there is support to see how we can further stimulate the economy and how we can also get these investments back on track, because it is clear that too little investment is currently being made. The PvdA considers this investment package to be a good first step towards an economically stronger Europe. Four sectors are within the scope of the Commission: infrastructure, small and medium-sized enterprises, education and research and renewable energy. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the focus should be on SMEs, innovation, education and renewable energy. There should be no choice for the easy way out of another highway here, an airport there, or a railroad here. Projects that can also generate sustainable growth and jobs in the long term should be chosen. This means investing in, for example, the digital highway, in electric cars or in high-speed sustainable trains. Europe should try to excel in certain areas, and research should really be given more opportunity to do so, including in order to make research and education more connected to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u40	I just heard my colleague say that we need to move more towards renewable energy. Of course, that's something that's gonna make my heart beat faster. Does the PvdA group therefore consider that large sums of European money should no longer go to nuclear energy, for example, or to shale gas research?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u41	I think it is important that we look very closely at what renewable energy can mean to us in the Netherlands and in Europe. That is also in the plans for the European Energy Union. I would like to study these plans more carefully before I answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u42	That answer stays a little in the middle. In principle, your party and mine agree that we really need to do our best in Europe to achieve a fossil-free economy by 2050. We have to go that way. In the meantime, however, 200 million will be made available for research on nuclear power plants. That's not true. Should it not in principle be the case that the PvdA says: if money is available, should it actually be invested in things that are consistent with where we want to go, namely to a fossil-free economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u43	If the money is available, we would like to move towards renewable energy. Finally, a brief word on the process of accession to the European Union for the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries. Colleagues have also talked about it. In the general discussion last week on enlargement and accession with the Foreign Minister, for example, we have cracked a number of critical notes about Turkey. Even then, even before this weekend, there were incidents involving a number of journalists and editors. Once again, a restriction on the freedom of the press in Turkey. That is a bad example and a step in the wrong direction. The arrests of journalists were strongly condemned this weekend by the High Representative of the European Union and the Commissioner for Enlargement. That conviction has been widely shared here in the Chamber. In line with the principle of 'less for less and more for more', more for more and less for less, used in the accession process, it is now time to look at that less for less. I understand from the answer given by Minister Koenders to the written questions put by colleagues Omtzitzt and Verheijen that there was no support in the Council to suspend IPA funds now. Nevertheless, the PvdA considers it important that a signal is given. The time for less for less has really come here. We propose that support be directed more towards democratisation and support, for example support for local authorities and civil society organisations in areas lagging behind in Turkey. This is, after all, the most important element in the accession process that Turkey is really failing to achieve. I understand that it is not on the agenda right now, but I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how we, together with the cabinet, can look forward to achieving this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u44	Do I understand that the PvdA Group is proposing that IPA funds should no longer be paid to President Erdogan's government and that the European Union should finance local and regional authorities in the disadvantaged areas of Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u45	In specific terms, I would like us to consider whether the resources available, especially for democratisation, for example freedom of the press or other elements of fundamental rights which we consider to be important, Mr Omtzigt believes that important resources can also be used in Turkey, particularly in those regions which are still lagging behind. Turkey is a divided country; some regions are very cosmopolitan and take economic steps forward and others are lagging behind. I think it would be good if we could direct the funds to that end, for example to civil society organisations or to local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u46	Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists not consider it necessary, under the "less for less" principle, to pay less or to suspend it? Does the PvdA not find it strange that we say that we continue to support democratisation and the judiciary in Turkey, while the same judiciary, with European funds, is being used to silence journalists and other media?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u47	I think Mr. Omtzigt and I'm getting pretty close here anyway. Less for less also means less for less. At the same time, I think it is extremely important that a country such as Turkey, which is on the outskirts of Europe and next to a civil war-torn Middle East, can be kept with us so that I believe Mr Pechtold formulated it so that we can turn the face back towards Europe. I am in favour of achieving this by using IPA funds differently, less for less, but also differently. I also think that's the purpose of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u48	I hear Mrs Maij talking about a different spending of money and about other purposes. Does Mrs Maij also want to change the budget down? Does Mrs Maij wish to transfer less money to Turkey as a result of violations of human rights and freedom of the press?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u49	We have clearly two directions in the system of pre-accessional fees. If things are going very well and very quickly, we will do more for more and countries will be able to obtain additional resources more quickly. If things don't go well, we'll do less for less. That is what we have done in Bosnia, for example. This could well be done here, but it must be decided jointly in the Council by qualified majority. That's exactly what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u50	I agree with that commitment to show that we are serious. At the same time, this shift has already taken place. There is already more money going towards the rule of law and democracy. I understand that the PvdA Group would like to strengthen this further and achieve an even greater shift within this budget, including a reduction in the overall budget. I believe that this is the proposal of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u51	My proposal is very clear. I would like us to be able to support those change-minded groups in Turkey, which are indeed there, and to help them turn Turkey's face towards Europe. Also because, as I said to Mr Omtzigt, Turkey is an important country for us on the outskirts of Europe, not only as a trading partner, but also as a partner in a region that is very uncertain. I think it is very important to keep Turkey with us and to be able to continue to support those forces that do want to. Finally. As I said at the beginning, our belief in progress is at stake. That is why it is important that the European Union does what it was created to do. Even now: bringing peace, prosperity and well-being. The much-needed security of existence. That is the task of this European Commission, of the European Union. Only when this happens in the coming years will the Member States and the citizens of the Union continue to feel that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the European Union and the Netherlands are slowly improving in economic terms. We're seeing a slight economic recovery. However, the situation in many European countries remains very worrying. It's all fragile. I am thinking mainly of France, and also of Italy and Belgium. If these countries fail to implement the necessary reforms in time, it can affect all Member States, with disastrous consequences. It is therefore very important for the government to address this issue at the European summit in France and other countries that have been granted a very short delay in presenting a good economic plan and to ask how far they are. Is our government prepared to do so and does it intend to take back in the report of the European summit how it is currently looking at the countries which have postponed until March? Juncker's plan to relaunch the European economy through investment could work as a flywheel. Many financial institutions and lenders are still anxious to keep their loans in. This makes it difficult for SMEs but also for a number of large companies to make new investments and make use of this attracting economy. Investment can stimulate the economy. But that must be the right investment. Colleagues have already referred to it: we should not build empty airports or screens along Polish highways. How do we ensure that the Juncker Commission's investments go to useful projects this time and actually continue to contribute as a flywheel after their construction for a better and growing economy? How sure are we that the list of innovative programmes currently circulating actually serves as a project list? Who's gonna check that out? In addition, my group would like to know how much risk the Union now bears. Is this maximized or has there been any room left? What kind of guarantee do you give when you put in a 15-year-old leverage? Nor should we go along with a socialist job plan as presented by the PES. I am aware that not all the members of the Socialist Group agree on this, but I would like to hear the opinion of the Dutch Government on the plan, which the Socialists themselves say is that if it is implemented, Eurobonds will still be introduced through the back door and there will be mutualisation of debt. I agree with colleagues on a number of points. I agree with Mr Pechtold's question as to how the CIA reports will be discussed. Poland is the country he mentioned, but that is the only country that has admitted it a little bit. Romania has never said it had that secret prison, whereas the Americans are now admitting it. Lithuania ditto. And Macedonia, a candidate country, has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the El-Masri case. Macedonia, too, has never admitted that. Is it important to discuss this and to clean up here for once? I have great concerns with Mr Beertema about Mr Van Rompuy's waiting money. During Mr Bertema's speech, the government's replies came in. We had asked questions about this last week, so that is fairly timely. I would like to thank the government for sharing our view that the waiting money regime should simply be abolished and for its willingness to make a proposal to that effect. I can well imagine that proposal will not be ready tomorrow. When does the Prime Minister intend to make such a proposal in the European Union, so that the relevant regulation has changed when the current President and Commission resign? After all, it is a competence of the European Council to establish the waiting money regime. Then I'll come to Turkey. We have never had such a critical progress report and after this progress report Turkey even added a little bit to it. Colleagues have already referred to this. Journalists were captured. It is therefore high time for the CDA Group to partially or completely freeze or cut pre-accessory fees at this time. It's over in Bosnia, so it's possible. And I have a little more sympathy for Bosnia than I have for Turkey. Is the Dutch Government prepared to put that on the table? In order to make things worse, we parliamentarians have received a letter from the AK party, and not from the Turkish Government, which states that it was right to arrest these people. This shows that the separation of powers in Turkey is not being carried out quite correctly. There are also a few economic issues on the table. With regard to the common basis, the CCCTB, my question is whether it has improved on the crucial points for the Netherlands of a better distribution key in the areas of trade, commercial service activities and financial activities. If not, the Netherlands will get far too little of the profit according to the way it is allocated. After all, the Netherlands is a trading and service country. We believe that this is just as much of added value as the manufacturing industry. With regard to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, which comes to the European Council through Ecofin, we regret that the general abuse clause has been adopted, while it is still completely unclear. The government has also admitted this in an earlier debate. We would have preferred to have a clear explanation first. The government has indicated that there are still opportunities to adapt the provision during our Presidency. It is, however, a question of the provision itself. Now it could have been in the explanatory statement. We are disappointed that the IORP has continued and that Europe can make 79 new pages of regulation about pension funds, including Dutch pension funds, including pension statements, including supervision, including everything. This seems to be in direct contradiction with the government's previous intention, but also in contradiction with the intention of Commissioner Timmermans, who advocates fewer rules from Europe. Is there any way to stop that? With regard to the list, I would like to ask whether it is still possible to take a critical look at it and put more on it. We are thinking of the regulatory burden on Natura 2000 and other unnecessary environmental legislation that does not necessarily have to come from Europe. In some cases, European rules should be introduced. If the proposal for an open European government, which makes it easier to access documents, falls under fewer rules, we also have less democracy. So it is not that every rule is less good. In addition to Mr Pechtold, I would like to ask you to take a close look at this. Could the government also provide an overview of national surplus rules? Perhaps the government can take this suggestion for its own work programme in 2015, which we will discuss in January or February.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing Jesse Klaver today. Yesterday, the Juncker Commission announced its work plan. This is an important document, and as far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is the time to make choices for people and the environment, and also the time to make a good step towards an Energy Union in that work plan. Unfortunately, as far as we are concerned, there is little to be said about this. In my speech, I will talk about environmental legislation and I will say something about TTIP, the investment plan and tax avoidance. First of all, I will deal with environmental legislation. It seemed as if almost all the important environmental legislation proposals would fall in the clean-up of Commissioner Timmermans. He had previously been greatly annoyed by the rule about vacuum cleaners, the Ecodesign rule. In the Netherlands this was initially laughed at, but with that rule four coal power stations become superfluous. As long as tens of thousands of people are still dying because of the poor air quality in large cities in Europe, it does not seem to me to be a matter of laughing about it. It is therefore fortunate that sharper national emission ceilings for pollutants remain the goal. But the Commission is bringing forward a modified proposal, which gives us some doubts. How much longer is this gonna take and is this gonna be non-committal? For example, the IPCC has once calculated that if all European countries had implemented the agreed climate agreements, we would hardly have had a climate problem anymore. This was not about a broad ambition, but really about agreements such as: we are going to do so much on that date. So non-binding, ambitious directions do not mean that those agreements will be implemented. My first question to our Prime Minister is really how he looks at this: it is more ambitious, but we do not really set it as a binding goal. Then how are we gonna do it? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is not appropriate on these important issues. An example of this is the way we deal with waste. Surely it is inconceivable that we in Europe should continue to dump or burn nearly two thirds of our waste, whereas waste is actually our new raw material? I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the Dutch are doing on this issue. How do we look at this? It seems that waste is becoming the new top import product of the Netherlands. We are already dragging it here from Italy and leaving it full of ships coming from England. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue at the Euro Summit for a much more robust policy to make the circular economy ambitious in terms of goals and resources, but also in terms of real results? GroenLinks also proposes that consideration be given to whether European action in the environmental field, as well as in other areas, will contribute to achieving an economy that will be fully based on clean energy by 2050. Or do these measures further drive us away from this goal? With regard to GroenLinks, it seems as if we in Europe are saying on the one hand that we want to go to the clean energy economy, while on the other hand we are making large sums of money available for maintaining old-fashioned fossil energy. In my question to Mr Maij, I gave an example of this. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister. The Netherlands has a nuclear power plant in Petten. This government wants to renew it. It has always been said that it should be financed entirely privately. Entrepreneurs just keep their own pants up, I say to the VVD. Now it appears that the Netherlands would like 200 million from the new investment plan in Europe for this nuclear power plant. This should create a lot of new jobs in the Netherlands. GroenLinks does not see that and would like to hear why our government is advocating European money for non-clean energy sources in the Netherlands. The prevention and reuse of waste, i.e. waste as a raw material, can create a lot of jobs. There have been stacks of investigations on this subject, which are undoubtedly known to our Prime Minister. There is an emerging scarcity of rare metals, but later also of gold and silver, if we continue on this foot. This can only be prevented by the circular economy. I'd like to hear how that's argued for. Let me now turn to the investment plan. I have a question in advance: what is the position of the Netherlands in relation to TTIP? What is the commitment of the Netherlands? My group is concerned that there is a possibility that the Dutch Parliament will be out of play. My last sentence is about tax avoidance. GroenLinks would like tax agreements to be more transparent. Other spokesmen have already asked for this. We would like to know what the government is going to do about this. Transparency creates confidence, but weird eyes also force it. This will give us a fairer system for all people in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u54	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to inform you that, because of her presence in another debate, Mrs Van Tongeren will not be present at the answer and the second time. The answers to her questions will, of course, be recorded and she will respond to them at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about very subjects. I have made a genuine attempt to put some sort of categorization into that, but I have given up on that. I am going to try to answer the questions, but I do not follow a thematic classification if the Chamber changes my mind. As long as the questions are answered, I suppose. Many questions have been asked, actually by all the political groups, about the investment package, the EFSI. We welcome that package in principle. It is also in line with the government's commitment to an integrated approach. However, we always point out that if the approach is to be successful, it must always be consistent between investment and, at the same time, reform and put public finances in order. To be honest, the cabinet is also critical. I also hear critical noises from your Chamber. We still have a lot of questions about the design of the fund. For example, it must be made clear where this funding comes from. In the various letters to the Chamber, we have already written a few words about how we have become what this funding is made up of, for example, the share of public funds, the 8 billion that come from the EU budget. All this is still surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty. Certainly, where part of this funding has also been referred to in the Chamber a few times already, partly from Horizon 2020 funds, we also consider it very important that the final allocation of investment should not only look at the old economy, but also at the economy 2.0, i.e. at the modern growth sectors. Think digitally, think research and think innovation aimed at increasing competitiveness. The selection of investment projects should take into account quality and added value. There too, we still have many questions about the need for a good and adequate governance structure. However, there is also time for all these questions. The Commission has yet to present the concrete proposal. That is not what the European Council is going to talk about. We are not going to discuss that whole plan in detail now, because that is not really there yet. Only the contours are there. We do want the answers to the questions. We will be expecting the further proposals at the beginning of 2015 and we will be expecting them to be reviewed in the light of the various questions that the Netherlands has. A few specific questions have been asked, including by Mr Van Bommel. He is asking what is actually going on with a possible cultural change in the European Investment Bank. One could say that this investment fund enables the EIB to expand risk finance and to apply it more flexibly. At the same time, this fund is a separate fund with the EIB, at least as it seems. By setting up a separate fund, filled with contributions from the European Union and also a separate part of EIB capital, the risks are separated from the EIB's balance sheet and that is the point that Mr Verheijen is also making about the triple-A, it seems. In addition, the nature of the fund's operations, i.e. risk, is by definition additional to existing, often non-risk, regular EIB financing. The EIB already has a great deal of expertise and, at the same time, we expect, will need even more expertise in order to be able to implement this package properly immediately. I spoke about this with the President of the EIB, Mr Werner Hoyer, a few weeks ago in Berlin. That part of the expertise will have to be built up by the EIB. Mr Van Bommel also asked about the role of the Task Force for Investment. I can be brief about that. It's ready. Furthermore, it has no role in EFSI's governance structure. It was necessary to look at opportunities and barriers to additional investment. The outcome was the Ecofin report and also for this European Council, including the illustrative list of potential projects. Finally, Mr Van Bommel raised a number of specific questions concerning governance and the division of roles between the Member States and the Commission. Let me repeat once again: there must be careful and objective project selection, which is very important. I share all his concerns at that point. The added value is important. This means that the Netherlands should ask for the precise division of roles between the different national and European institutions in relation to the review of projects, which will be co-financed by the EFSI in the near future. Once again, the Commission still has to present the concrete proposal, we are talking about the contours. I agree with a large part of the Chamber that these contours seem to be in line with a number of wishes that we have expressed in the past about setting up Europe for additional investments that actually contribute to the growth of the economy. That with regard to various comments that have been made on what I will call the juncker fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u56	With regard to this juncker fund, I have mentioned two very fundamental criticisms of captains of industry. It is said that there is not at all so much investment in infrastructure in Europe that you can expect this guarantee to yield the fifteenfold investment. Will the Prime Minister also comment on the expectation that the scope of this fund will not be exaggerated? In the end, we run the risk of having projects like the airports developed in Poland with European money that are not being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u57	The question about sound screens has already come along, as well as providing a quiet old age for the cows in Poland. That is the type of investment that we believe has less added value and cannot be classified under economy 2.0. This is really linked to governance and to the precise selection of projects. We have the necessary questions. What I like is the initial signals from the Commission on how to deal with this, which gives confidence. Whether it really meets our criteria will have to prove in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u58	I agree with the Prime Minister that only then can a magnifying glass be used to see how this can be managed, managed and controlled. However, the captains of industry rightly point out that the scale of infrastructure works in Europe with public funding is not at all so great that you have to put such a fund aside, certainly not with an investment capacity of fifteen-fold. According to these gentlemen, this is completely exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u59	When the public authorities or the European Commission come forward with proposals, there are always many experts who express themselves on this issue. Sometimes they are less expert, but in this case I assume that they are experts. It is one of the blessings of our work that, as a government or as a chamber, we can always take note of all these insights. We shall involve them in our deliberations, I say to Mr van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thanks for the explanation. I have two specific questions about this. The first is: what is the maximum risk? Is the European Union even more at risk if these projects fail and the money is not repaid to the fund, except for the approximately 12 billion that goes into it from the European budget? The second is: will the government give a feedback to the Dutch parliament in June or September or October which projects in the Netherlands will be financed, including cross-border projects? Then we get an idea of how the Netherlands is handling this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u61	On that second point, I would like to be advised whether this planning is feasible. I'm just looking at my officials to make a suggestion to me for my answer. I do not know exactly how that fits in with communication with Parliament. We must prevent all of us from getting reverse notes that are separate from normal reports; there are already a lot of them. In addition, it seems that 8 billion should come from the EU budget. Guarantees and capital injections are used to provide three times more risk finance through internal banking leverage from the EUB and its subsidiary European Investment Fund. In the end, this leverage should lead to the total amount of 315 billion from 2015, over a three-year period. I would like to say to Mr Omtzig that we include his concerns as to whether it is limited and what the further risks to the European budget are, in our appreciation of the Commission's proposals. Again, we do not really have much more than a number of political intentions that we actually like, but which at the same time raise a lot of questions with Mr Omtzig and others. This too is a question which, of course, we will involve in the appreciation of the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u63	Then I come to the question of Turkey. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Bert Koenders, also addressed this issue in the RAZ. Clearly, we expect Turkey as a candidate country to take the European values as a starting point. That's crucial. The arrests of journalists and the raids by the media are therefore flagrantly contrary. This was also made clear immediately by the High Representative Mogherini and Commissioner Hahn. This is also reflected in the conclusions of the RAZ report. That report will be sent to the Chamber shortly. Part of the aid to Turkey is aimed precisely at strengthening the rule of law. I think that's relevant in itself. But the Netherlands also believes that Turkey's performance should be taken into account. If they are left behind, cuts in support must also be on the table in the government's view. That's what the Foreign Minister put in the RAZ. Parliamentary questions were answered last night. This has led to a tightening of the conclusions of the RAZ. At the same time, however, I can tell the House that the Netherlands is quite alone in this. Even a country like Greece doesn't go that far. In other words, the shortening of aid now actually goes too far for all Member States outside the Netherlands at the moment. We cannot decide this alone, because this is covered by QMV. This means that the Netherlands will remain keen on this, that the Netherlands will always mark this point again and again, that the Netherlands currently has the most far-reaching position in the EU, but at the same time those decisions are taken by qualified majority, which is currently nowhere to be seen in fields or roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u64	I understand from the Prime Minister's words that this means that he says it in so many words that we actually have nothing more to say about it. That process will continue, no matter what the Netherlands thinks. Any autonomous decision we take here is completely superfluous. Then the Prime Minister says very tough that we stay very sharp on it. But is that staying sharp gonna lead to anything? Or is it just staying sharp to keep it sharp, to indicate here for this stage: look at them give us some cotton? In the end, the Prime Minister says that the process is going ahead and we will continue to pay those funds on the way nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u65	The EU does not decide on such matters unanimously. This goes with QMV. I refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yesterday's letter and the Prime Minister's replies are clear. We are only standing here as the Netherlands and that is disappointing. Can the Prime Minister give some thought to what the other Member States are thinking about not pressing this button and not just saying it, but also showing Turkey through the financial button that we do not agree with what that country is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u67	I cannot give a complete insight into this, because of course I do not have all the information at my disposal and I do not know what is happening in all the states behind the scenes. But one of the elements highlighted in the discussion is Turkey's special position in the fight against ISIS and the importance that Turkey represents as a NATO member in that fight against ISIS, so that we have to keep Turkey close to us. The Netherlands believes that this is indeed very important. Turkey is a proud member of NATO and the Netherlands has an excellent relationship with NATO member Turkey. We very much appreciate our common struggle. But that is without prejudice to the fact that we should also be able to address each other as good friends on complex issues, and this is a complex issue. That is why the Netherlands stresses the good relationship with NATO member Turkey, but must be prepared to take a firm stance on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u68	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for at least this piece of background. I think we all agree that Turkey is important to us in a number of areas, but this does not prevent us from being critical of Turkey, especially where we dare to cut Bosnia by 50%. We're brave enough for that. I will not ask the Prime Minister to put this on the agenda tomorrow, because in the end the outcome will be the same as yesterday, so that makes no sense. However, I would ask the Prime Minister to continue looking for a way in which, in Europe, we can send that signal not only in words but also in deeds, including in financial terms, to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u69	It's a three-track policy. I think in the spirit of Mr Verheijen's question. First of all, in the fight against ISIS, we must maintain a good relationship with NATO member Turkey. Secondly, we must insist unconditionally on European values and condemn what is happening there. The Netherlands should promote that this should have an impact on IPA funds. Thirdly, we must try to influence Turkey's behaviour by means of rail one and by means of rail two.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u70	With countries with which you do not fully share the fundamental values of the rule of law, you can work together militarily. You can even work well together economically. A country that violates the freedom of the press must not grow into EU membership alone. What does the Prime Minister think of the reaction of the President of Turkey? He says that Brussels should mind its own business, while it is precisely about those values of the rule of law and about fundamental freedoms such as freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u71	Disappointing. Disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u72	Is it conceivable that there will ever be a red line somewhere in the sense of saying: this is flagrantly contrary to the fundamental values of the European community of values and of our rule of law, including freedom of the press, religious freedom, respect for minorities and equality between men and women? What's the red line for this cabinet? From what point do we say that we can no longer participate in the process leading to EU membership?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u73	That's what I'm always about. Europe, including the Netherlands, has been prepared to open talks with Turkey on possible membership of the European Union. At the same time, we are sticking to the Copenhagen criteria and to the absorption capacity, that is to say to all the requirements we impose on acceding countries. We will not make any concessions. At present, Turkey is developing in a number of areas completely contrary to the values and elements set out in the Copenhagen criteria. That's what we need to establish. This means that membership of the European Union is very far away. So I'm not gonna draw any red lines, nor am I gonna determine when we're gonna stop talking. The red line is very solid. The Netherlands cannot accept Turkey's accession to the European Union. It seems to me that this applies to many countries. There are no concessions to the enlargement criteria, so the Copenhagen criteria that we have agreed with each other. Mrs Maij of the Labour Party specifically asked for aid to be redirected to Turkey. Part of it's already been done. For 2014, almost half of the funds go to democratisation and good governance. This includes support for civil society organisations. In addition, 19% more goes to strengthening the rule of law. We now want this financial support to be used in such a way that it has the maximum impact on our interests. I am thinking of the rule of law, but also of migration-related expenditure that is important for the Netherlands. For example, it is important for the Netherlands to ensure that the long Turkish border is properly monitored and that asylum seekers who can be returned are properly received. That is also where European aid goes. This line wants to hold on to the Netherlands, even if the support provided in 2015 is actually being discussed. The rule of law, civil society organisations and matters of mutual interest are then used.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u74	Here the Prime Minister is touching on an essential point. The European Union's money to Turkey is currently mainly spent on the rule of law, while the rule of law in Turkey is used as a repressive arm of the regime to invade newspaper editors, harass journalists and silence political opponents. Is it not important that we no longer cooperate and that we do not finance the rule of law in Turkey, which is not a rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u75	I refer to the whole debate I have just had with the Chamber. In my view, we agree that we need to make strong demands and, if necessary, be prepared to lower the ceilings for pre-accession products. The Netherlands is alone in this; I have just had this whole debate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u76	I appreciate that Minister Koenders brought it in last night and understand that the government alone cannot break iron with its hands. But does the Prime Minister want to make it clear here that he actually thinks that when the Turkish Public Prosecutor is being used to arrest journalists, it is not appropriate for Europe, in the context of democratisation, to grant subsidies to the public prosecutor, which is not impartial and which, in any case, is defended by the AK party here by letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u77	I choose my own wording there, namely that it is important to use pre-access funds for matters of mutual interest and in the case of Turkey for strengthening the rule of law. There have been extremely serious events which Koenders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has also been appointed to the General Affairs Council, which are now part of the Council's report, which has been achieved. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, they must have an impact on the application of the pre-accession funds, but there is insufficient support for this. Mr. Chairman. I come to the following subject in my journey through all the questions and comments: taxation. Among other things, a request was made for the corporate tax base, the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB). We share the concerns about the distribution key. It promotes traditional economies. The government also considers that the Court has drawn a yellow card in relation to this dossier indicating that the subsidiarity requirement has not been met. The cabinet was and is against the proposals for the CCCTB. The question of transparency, a request for greater transparency, has been asked. The European Commission has said that it is working on proposals to combat international tax abuse. For example, the Commission is working on a proposal for the exchange of information on tax rotations between EU Member States. The Dutch Government is in favour of this. It has been asked whether the government will insist on a vigorous approach to tax avoidance. The cabinet is in favour of a vigorous approach to international tax abuse. That is what the Commission is doing. It will come forward with proposals to that effect. This is also linked to the point already made on the exchange of information on tax rules between EU Member States. We look forward to the Commission's new action plan. Mr Segers, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Maij have asked questions about the impression that two important environmental proposals have been killed. One is about air quality and the other is about waste, the so-called waste package. The situation is that on both proposals the Commission proposes a broader and better-led proposal at a slightly later date. The Dutch Government believes that this is a good approach. Like the Commission, we support the underlying objectives of these proposals: improving air quality and the use of waste as a raw material, i.e. its reuse, in order to save other raw materials. At the same time, we think it is right to take another critical look at the current legislation. Where it can be improved, it absolutely needs to be improved. That is also why the Dutch cabinet supports Commissioner Timmermans' approach on this point. More generally, the work programme has also been requested. Maybe I can say that the Netherlands focuses on the key issues that contribute to growth and jobs. It is important, also given the time of year, that we do not too much of the Christmas tree. First, we have to deal with the important issues. Growth and jobs are at the top of the cabinet. In this respect, it also gives full support to the Commission. The rest, including transparency, is not off the table. The question is whether this is also a priority at European level. This is an important topic for the Netherlands. For example, we remain committed to modernising the Euro-WOB. This brings me to the point of withdrawing the transparency proposals and anti-discrimination proposals. I am also looking at the ten points mentioned by Juncker. Since 1 December, the Commission has advocated greater openness on contacts with lobbyists, proposes a mandatory transparency register and has drawn up a list of 23 proposals. We in the Netherlands are in principle in favour of this. I have already mentioned the Euro-WOB. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no question of anti-discrimination. I can now return to the Juncker package, which Mr Omtzigt has just interrupted. Maybe I can give him the answer right away about a possible feedback in September or October. We would first like to await the Commission's concrete proposal at the beginning of next year. We shall give that an appreciation. This means that it is difficult at the moment to make a commitment before September or October. It is still uncertain what is known about concrete projects by then. We want to take a step-by-step look at the proposal and we want to involve the Chamber. We would then like to make further agreements with the Chamber on the involvement of the Chamber. In doing so, I will involve Mr Omtzigt's wish to have a progress report in September or October, but we will make our response depend on the precise form of the Commission's proposals and the most practical form of reporting that is associated with them. That was the point that had remained. A question has been asked about Mr Van Rompuy's waiting money. Several members of the Chamber have also asked written questions about this. I believe that the answers have now been received by the Chamber. The waiting money is in line with the regulation currently in force. The amounts initially mentioned in the media are incorrect. That does not alter the fact that, as a cabinet, we want to modernise that waiting money scheme. We are currently considering whether this is possible and realistic. Of course, this also requires support from the other Member States. We would like to inform the Chamber at the end of the summer of 2015 about the results of this exploration. In the Netherlands itself, the waiting money and pension schemes for political officials have been severely reduced in recent years, but I have to say that in other Member States this austerity has been slow. This will therefore lead to a whole debate. The review of the Detachment Directive has been requested. The cabinet wants to combat all the bogus structures that lead to social dumping and exploitation of workers in the European Union. This also applies to cross-border false self-employment. We interpret the focus of the revision, the so-called targeted review, in such a way that the Detachment Directive is assessed from that perspective and will therefore contribute to a solution to this problem. That is why we are in principle in favour of the Commission's initiative, but that is not the end of it. We are also taking other initiatives. For example, the Enforcement Directive provides an incentive to address this problem by giving guidance to inspection services. Furthermore, the aim is to tackle undeclared work in the framework of the platform to be set up. We, as the Netherlands, have worked successfully to get the fight against bogus self-employment mentioned in the objectives of the platform. We are also going to try to use the influence of the European Parliament in the negotiations that are now taking place with the European Parliament on the establishment of the platform. I can imagine that the Chamber will discuss this further with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Then there is the question of the Investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS). The Dutch position has not changed. On the website of the House of Representatives it has already been noted that the motion rejecting the admission of the ISDS and the TTIP has been mistakenly adopted by confusion about the numbering. We have also been asked about ratification by the national parliaments. The cabinet can assure the Chamber that we are moving in with the Chamber. This has also been mentioned several times in the answer to parliamentary questions by my colleague Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. We are committed to a mixed agreement, with all national parliaments also having to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u78	It's good to bet on a mixed chord. So then it comes back here in the room. I actually have a question for the chairman. Has this motion been passed or rejected? The Prime Minister says that the motion was mistakenly adopted. However, this is a figure that does not appear to me entirely familiar in parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u79	That is not the case either, because the motion has either been adopted or has not been adopted. Those are the two flavors we know here. In my opinion, the Chamber decides whether or not a motion gets a majority. That's what the room's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u80	We voted against at that time, but I believe that this motion was adopted at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u81	Well, then it's accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u82	Then it's accepted. Is there anything on the website of the House of Representatives about "abusefully accepting"?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u83	It says that the motion was passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u84	But the Prime Minister has just said that the website says that it has been mistakenly adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u85	These are motions that were adopted during the votes on the budget. At the time of the vote, the author of the motions subsequently indicated that a mistake had been made and that he was going to retable those motions, including the motion which he had already assumed at the time that it might be possible that the motion would then not be adopted. That is what he will do when he discusses the supplementary budget for State aid, which is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon at 10:00 p.m., or so it has been announced; I am not going to go on about it, but that is how I have been told. At least the motions have been adopted for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u86	Do I understand from your words that this motion will be tabled until it is rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u87	No. Two motions have been tabled. The author of these two motions indicated in the votes that there were apparently mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u88	When you count?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u89	No, by voters. Those are just not my words, are they? I quote the author now, and I do not therefore conclude that. He then announced that he would retable the motions on a new occasion. This new opportunity is, according to our schedule, scheduled for tomorrow afternoon at 4:10 p.m., namely when the supplementary budget for State aid is being discussed. Until then, it's what it is. It is Mr Van Ojik's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u90	It is amazing in itself that intentions are interpreted in retrospect. It is indeed an adopted motion. Anyway, we can sort of guess how that's gonna end. At the same time, I asked the Prime Minister to respond to the French Parliament's ruling that arbitration as foreseen is not France's wish. So there is already a fact on the table that we have to relate to. In addition, the Prime Minister is now saying that Parliament will be regularly updated. I have also submitted to him the ruling of Minister Ploumen who wants Parliament to have more control over the agreement. What exactly does that "more" mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u91	Where there can be differences of interpretation between Mrs Ploumen and mine, Mrs Ploumen's words always apply; so that is perfectly clear. On that first point concerning ISDS, I would point out that we have a different view on it than the French. We think it should be part of those agreements. This is an issue that should eventually take shape in all kinds of negotiations, and the Netherlands plays a very constructive role in this. Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, is also trying to do a very good job in front of and behind the scenes. This element also applies to the Canadian Convention, CETA, and TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u92	It is, of course, nice that Mrs Ploumen's words apply, especially when they appeal to me. It'll fit right in my alley. I would, of course, like to know what this means. Now these negotiations are a big black hole and as a parliament you stand at a great distance, while they do affect our regulations and standards. If Minister Ploumen says there must be more control, then I would like to know exactly what that means. As far as I am concerned, this can also be done by letter, because it will all take another year. If an agreement is to be launched at the end of next year, negotiations are still going on and more parliamentary control is promised, then we must also know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u93	This means that, if it is necessary to measure parliamentary support, Parliament will be involved in the process at regular intervals. After all, that is the meaning of "more involvement." So it's got to be already. I'm going to serve Mr Segers all the way. It must be because it is a mixed agreement, as Mr Omtzigt said earlier. That is good, because then Parliament will be involved. The ambition is to involve it even more. So you don't wait until it's all done, but you watch regularly, at times of crucial decision-making, whether the choices you're going to make can also count on support in parliament. However, I cannot see in advance where that is exactly, if only because of the fact that the negotiations have their own dynamics. There will also be times when it is not yet ready to ask the Parliament to give such support at a number of crucial moments. If you appoint in advance when those moments occur, you will also give access to the negotiations. That could harm the negotiations. I can see from Mr Segers' body language that I have partly convinced him. A further question has been asked as to how trade agreements contribute to employment. We know that they may create hundreds of thousands of jobs. The trade strategy is currently being developed by Commissioner Malmström. At the beginning of 2015 we can see that. She's gonna keep the whole strategy under review. That seems to us to be a good thing. A question has also been asked about the blue card system. The Netherlands is in favour of EU legislation that makes Europe more attractive to knowledge workers. At the same time, we attach great importance to the fact that the new system does not create more bureaucratic burdens. Our national regulations on the acquisition of knowledge workers are designed so that bureaucracy is minimal. It is one of Europe's least bureaucratic arrangements. We shall therefore be following the European proposal very closely. Our commitment will be to make the European scheme as easy as possible as possible in the Member States. I come to the question about the content of the EU Presidency. The short answer is that a letter on the Presidency will be sent to the Chamber in January 2015. It will also focus on cooperation with Luxembourg, Slovakia and Malta on neighbouring presidencies. We have already identified priorities during debates in the Chamber which should play a role in that Presidency. Think of the budgetary system with a multi-annual financial framework of seven years for Europe and the way it relates to the need to invest more in economic growth; but these are elements that we discussed earlier. We want to put the Presidency not only at the service of the objectives of the Commission's strategic agenda, but also of the objectives set by the European Council earlier. We want to produce results in these areas for people and businesses. The focus will be on innovation and on the added value that Europe must have for issues such as growth, jobs and competitiveness. Things need to be tackled more effectively and smartly. These will be the recurring concepts. In this context, Mr Verheijen and other spokesmen asked for my opinion on the Commission's work programme, which the first Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Timmermans, presented yesterday. Moreover, in January, the Chamber will receive an extensive press release of this kind. I see Mr Pechtold thinking by the name "Timmermans": that is the man by whom I did not become first. I think so myself in some elections this year, but I am not talking about the winner of all polls, I am talking about the first Vice-President of the European Commission. However, I can see from Mr Pechtold's face that it was a difficult time. I'll share that with him. In general terms, I can already say that the draft work programme is in line with the strategic agenda of the European Council, with a clear focus on priorities and principles. The major problems are addressed, mainly in terms of growth, jobs and investment. I therefore recognise myself in the words of those who say that there is no business as usual, of doing what we have always done. I expect this Commission to continue on this track and to continue to set priorities. I want the Council of Ministers to say this when the Council set out its five priorities; that was before the new President of the Juncker Commission became more closely involved in the preparation of the work programme in the future. The European Council, when we discussed the five priorities for the European Union in May and June, focused its attention. My impression is, as I say to Mr Verheijen, that the Juncker programme and the Commission's draft work programme are guiding both the Commission and the Council. This should prevent all kinds of fun new projects from being launched that lead to a lot of hassle, so that you'll need a new first vice president to cut the projects. I come to a number of sensitive international issues. One of these concerns the attitude towards Hamas. Mr Verheijen asked for that. The fact is that the Court of First Instance of the European Union has made Hamas right with regard to the appeal against the EU listing of that organisation. I have taken note of that ruling of the Court of First Instance of the European Union. It is important to stress that the measure with regard to Hamas is still in force, at least for three months. This means that no funds are being thawed or that it would now be possible to support Hamas financially. It will now be necessary to determine what measures we are going to take at EU level to repair this, and it is important that the Court of First Instance has explicitly stated that the judgment is of a legal and procedural nature. It does not judge the validity of the characterisation by the Hamas European Council as a terrorist organisation. The Dutch position is completely unchanged: Hamas is a terrorist organisation. There are no contacts with Hamas as long as Hamas does not comply with the quartet principles: the renouncement of violence, recognition of Israel and respect for existing agreements. At European level, we will use the time to fix the legal and non-material problem that has arisen. Mr Verheijen and others are, of course, disappointed by the delay in the telecoms directive and roaming charges. This is a rightly mentioned example of delays in the internal market. For the Netherlands, the deepening of the internal market is an absolute top priority. It is also the first priority in the strategic agenda of the European Council. We will do everything in our power to encourage the Commission at the European Council, and I know that many will do so to me once again, if not to force it, to take concrete initiatives. In this context, it is important that the work programme for the European Council also announces concrete proposals in this area of the Digital Single Market. The Netherlands strongly supports this for the full breadth of the digital single market. The issues of roaming and net neutrality are part of the draft regulation on the European internal market in telecommunications, which has recently been discussed in the Telecoms Council. The report has now been sent to the Chamber. It stated that the Netherlands could not support the proposals in these areas. This is also in line with the motion-De Love/Oosenbrug that the cabinet has called for. The Latvian Presidency will now move on to these issues. We await the new proposals and will also actively make proposals to improve roaming and net neutrality plans. On pensions, the IORP directive, I can tell you that two weeks ago, Mrs Klijnsma, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, sent a letter to the Chamber stating that the Netherlands has responded to all points and that there is now consensus on the negotiating mandate with the European Parliament. It can agree to it within Coreper. Last Tuesday, the House discussed this with her. At that time, the Court clearly stated that it had no objection to this. I will continue with the issue of the Palestinian Authority. I know that there is always discussion in this Chamber about the recognition of the Palestinian Authority. Perhaps I can agree with what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said on this point, including in recent debates in the First and Second Chambers. Eventually, the Netherlands wants to make recognition possible, there is no misunderstanding about that, but then we must make a contribution to achieving a comprehensive peace agreement based on the two-state solution. The focus and opportunity is currently in the process of promoting this two-state solution. The focus is not on the recognition of the Palestinian Authority. Mr Pechtold asked about the published report, the executive summary, on secret detention centres in some European countries. The Dutch Government has always expressed its opposition to the CIA transferring illegally detained suspects. In line with this, the Netherlands has also consistently pointed to the responsibility of national authorities. These investigations have been carried out in some countries in the European Union; sometimes they are still ongoing. It is now up to these countries themselves to determine to what extent this report gives rise to additional steps. The Foreign Minister raised this in the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday. It's important to learn lessons now. We must be absolutely sure that our view is that we do not undermine our values in the fight against terrorism. The cabinet's position on the circular economy has been asked. Yesterday, Commissioner Timmermans promised that the Commission would come forward with an ambitious proposal in this area. This was also discussed today at the Environment Council. On the one hand, there are Member States who welcome the postponement but fear the increased ambition announced. On the other hand, there are Member States which regret the postponement, but which are positive about the Commission's ambition. Then you are a bit in the position in which my predecessor was Mr Balkenende during his fourth cabinet. He said if he was mangled by the SP and the VVD: then I'll be about right. That is, I think, also the case here. This also confirms the Commission's previous finding that there is no agreement between the Member States on this matter for the time being and that it is not to be expected either. The issue is not on the agenda of the European Council. This also means that I will not make the point out of nothing in the European Council. I think it is important right now that we support the Commission in its efforts to achieve a better focus and more effective European Union priorities. In this respect, as a cabinet, we can also fully support the Commission's approach to this issue. Finally, I would like to say a few words about nuclear energy. Perhaps it is good to report that the list of projects of the Task Force investments is really illustrative. So I'm going back to the first topic I talked to the Chamber about: the Juncker Fund, the EFSI. It is about looking at barriers and where there are opportunities for investment. That is also mentioned in the letter to the Chamber about Juncker's plan. So it's not an application for the EFSI, it's projects you can think about. The EFSI projects will be submitted by everyone in due course. They must therefore be assessed on their own merits. The project mentioned on the Task Force list in Petten aims to enable the realisation of a nuclear reactor for research and for the production of radioactive isotopes. They are very important for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. That's content. But it has not been said that this project will eventually be submitted definitively. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have made an attempt to answer all the questions. Unless, like that happens all the time, someone jumps up mad.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u94	I don't see that happening. This has put an end to the government's first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. We will proceed immediately, with Mr Pechtold as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first-term response. I understand that many things about the new momentum, as the European Commission is now presenting, are not so clear. I certainly don't blame this Prime Minister. I also heard him say that a final cabinet response to these 23 new points for 2015 is to be expected in January. We look forward to that. I have just made a point of the rules that Commissioner Timmermans is about to delete. I think the Prime Minister's reaction to this is somewhat less acute. This is not only a general but also a more specific analysis of the issues I mentioned about all those rules that Commissioner Timmermans wants to delete. There are a number of things that I would like to say: be careful not to throw the child away with the bath water. The PvdA spoke about the environment in this context; I spoke about anti-discrimination and access to documents. Those are things that were really fought for from the Netherlands. Does the cabinet agree with me that it is fine that we clean up, that we make Europe what Europe is meant to be, but that we should not, because something is taking a long time, that there is a long time and that frustration may increase, start all over again with such matters? I have mentioned explicit examples in this connection and I would like to hear a response to them. With regard to Turkey, I am pleased that the Prime Minister keeps a little more peace than his political colourful fellow here in the Chamber. The Prime Minister says: let us deal very carefully with the NATO partner; let us especially look at what is currently effective with the Turks. We really do not need to have a competition here, in the sense of whom what is happening in Turkey at the moment is the worst. The possible plan to separate boys and girls at school seems to me to be a very serious plan. But my group is in favour of an escalation ladder that will clearly show the Turks: we would like you to look our way; if you want to do that and do business with Europe, you will hear these kinds of steps that go back in time rather than towards the future. In this respect, I do not think that the Prime Minister has much to add. I think I have summarised his point of view. I found the point about the CIA a little vaguer. I heard something about additional steps. It was said that lessons were learned. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned Poland. He was right to mention Romania. We can't just say that we've learned lessons. Lessons you learn when the bottom stone comes up. Lessons learn when it is recognised that European countries may have played a role. What is the Dutch government going to do about it? Will she check with colleagues in Europe on the contribution of the Netherlands to the CIA's practices? The Americans are working on this internally. The Netherlands must also be able to appeal to its allies, its partners in Europe for their contribution to torture and all other things that have passed. I am aware that I did not receive an answer to my question about Russia. I asked the Prime Minister if he agrees with me that it is a matter of concern when money flows from Putin to European parties to bring European democracy into disbalance. How are we gonna do that? How do we put the transparency of funding on the map not only in the Netherlands but also in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Prime Minister for his reply. However, we do feel that it was insufficient on our subjects. That's why I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after 12 years, insufficient progress has been made in Turkey's path of accession as a full member of the European Union;]] [[whereas it is not politically realistic to expect Turkey to make progress in the foreseeable future;]] [[calls on the government, at the forthcoming European Summit, to put an end to all accession aid to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-925]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u97	Then I have a motion that goes one step further with regard to Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Turkish Government restricts internet freedom, undermines the autonomy of the Supreme Court, judges and prosecutors and has recently severely restricted freedom of expression and freedom of the press by mass arrests of journalists;]] [[whereas this erosion of the rule of law and the disregard of fundamental freedoms are directly contrary to the values of the Nightland that are dear to us;]] [[having noted that after a 12-year journey in which Turkey should have become a full democratic member of the Union, there is now little or no prospect of this;]] [[calls on the Government to use the forthcoming European Summit on behalf of the Netherlands to break off the accession negotiations with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands already guarantees almost EUR 100 billion in European guarantee funds;]] [[believes that the current state of our economy does not allow us to guarantee risky investments with even more Dutch tax money;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept the Commission's initiative to release EUR 300 billion from 2015 to 2016 for the European Fund for Strategic Investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-926]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-927]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u98	Finally, I come to the waiting money scheme for Mr Van Rompuy. We understand that the arrangement is as it is. We didn't ask any questions about that either. We asked whether Mr Van Rompuy could be called upon. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, under the leadership of the former President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, the European Union was in an economic crisis as never before;]] [[calls on the Government, Mr Van Rompuy, to refrain from paying €349,000 for the many economic victims of this crisis in the Netherlands and in other countries in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-928]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for all the answers he has given. I have another supplementary question on TTIP and its parliamentary involvement. The Prime Minister said that Minister Ploumen is always right about this and that she is seeking further involvement and more information from Parliament. I would like to ask the Prime Minister the opposite, namely to say at the summit that parliamentary involvement, including in other countries, is crucial, and that TTIP is not a black hole where at the end we are faced with a fulfilled fact, but that the democratically elected representatives are also thinking and talking along with it. As far as Turkey is concerned, there is a lasting great concern. A continuing commitment is to apply, and I quote the spokesperson of the PvdA Group,'more for more is less for less' and to use the pre-accessional funds as an incentive to work towards a rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey does not respect civil liberties, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression;]] [[Whereas the non-respect of civil liberties is incompatible with the democratic values of the European Union;]] [[whereas the objective of pre-accession financial assistance to Turkey to strengthen, inter alia, democracy, the rule of law and human rights is thus not achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts to link pre-accession financial assistance to the progress of reforms, to reduce or suspend financial resources to Turkey and to inform the Chamber about the results by the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Verheijen and Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-929]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I did not join my section on Turkey. From my co-signatory of Mr Segers' motion, it is clear that the SP Group also believes that, at some point in time, the signal from Europe "enough is enough" should be given with regard to Turkey and the move away from fundamental rights such as freedom of the press, freedom of expression and other human rights. And that if one does not want to listen, one must feel, with financial sanctions! The Prime Minister has rightly paid a great deal of attention to the Juncker plan in his first-term response. That is a big plan that will require a lot of attention in the coming year and will cost a lot of money. The Prime Minister has emphasized that the details will follow. In my first term, I expressed a great deal of criticism of the main thrust of the plan, starting with its size. I am concerned about growth, the flywheel function in this plan: from 21 billion guaranteed to 315 billion to be made available for private investment. And I am concerned with the direction of this plan, namely infrastructure, where there is no need for such a huge investment in infrastructure in Europe at all. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to go into these two main areas in more detail. I have also made the final point on this part that, as far as the SP Group is concerned, Member States are much better able to indicate where additional investment is needed. The mbk is an important partner. A national investment bank could play a very important role in this. Can the Prime Minister also comment on this? Finally. The Prime Minister has not been able to respond to my point concerning Ukraine. Ukraine has requested additional financial support, which would then be added to the IMF's support. Is this support going to come from Europe and, if so, how can this aid be prevented from falling into the wrong pockets in this unfortunately corrupt country?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion relates to the recognition of the Palestinian State by the European Parliament. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more parliaments in Europe recognise an independent Palestinian State;]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Summit, to condemn the recognition of a Palestinian State by EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-930]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u102	Much has already been said about the money going to Turkey. I have the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey, including the mass arrests of critical journalists, is in complete violation of freedom of expression;]] [[noting that Turkey, as a candidate for membership of the European Union, receives more than EUR 600 million per year in the context of the accession negotiations;]] [[calls on the Government to put on the table at the European Summit a proposal to freeze all financial support from the European Union to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-931]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given. I would like to come back to two points. The first is the EFSI. I hear about this, especially from the SP and PVV, worried and even very critical sounds. Let me say again why the VVD is positive about this fund. We have a positive basic position, as it is called. The impact has yet to take place, but this fund, in which private parties must also be involved, ensures that there will be no empty airports, or bicycle paths from nowhere, and that there will be no noise shields for cows. In the end, no private party will participate in such projects. That's exactly what I think is the guarantee. With a grant, you don't have that guarantee. Then there can indeed be money going to the strangest things. Just in this case, we try to separate private parties and convince them to invest. Of course, in the form of subordinated loans, the EIB and this fund will be the first to come into play, but if things go wrong, they will always involve private parties. For me, this is a guarantee that this fund is better than subsidy, and that it could work to untie the European economy. I look forward with interest to the outcome, but I am positive about the commitment. It would work; see what Europe can do in the coming years. I should like to add a few words to Turkey. I welcome the words of the Prime Minister and the commitment of the cabinet. I am disappointed that Europe is not on the same page as we are. In my view, the Chamber is quite broad in its critical tone, including on pre-accession funds. I think the signal from Europe to those countries would be very good. We will also have to consider interparliamentaryly how we are constantly making this subject subject subject to discussion in Europe, because it is a great deal of money, but it is also a very important signal. As Mr Omtzigt said, we are actually financing a rule of law that does things that we think are not in line with the rule of law. I think we should continue to report this. That is why I strongly supported Mr Segers' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mrs Maij has waived the second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his clear answer on most of the points. One point has been left out of the answer and that is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. But perhaps the Prime Minister can still make a commitment. This is kind of a challenge. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that France has been delayed until March to implement necessary economic and financial reforms for the Stability and Growth Pact;]] [[whereas this sends a bad signal that other countries do not motivate reforms and that France's track record in this respect is not good;]] [[calls on the government, countries which have been briefly delayed in the Council and with similar countries to keep their finger on the pulse over the next few months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-932]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u106	We should not suddenly be confronted with surprises in March in the vein of: oh, we have done nothing! That was the case last time. On a few brief points, I have a supplementary question. The first concerns the CIA-rendition flights. In addition to Mr Pechtold, I would like to ask the following. The government talked about the responsibility of countries, but that was precisely what went wrong. London has simply shut down its own inquiry, while it is mentioned in the report. Romania is still actively denying, also to the Council of Europe, that it has had secret prisons. At least Poland recognises it. Macedonia does not admit it and Lithuania does not admit it. Belgium has even been mentioned in the report. If these countries do not do it themselves, is there a role in discussing this together somewhere, whether in the Council of Europe or in the European Union, where you are a community of values? Thank you for the commitment to feedback in September or October on the current situation with regard to the Juncker plan. We'll see the list when it comes. The point is that we are kept well informed. I understand we have to wait for the timelines in which we have to think here. I am also waiting until the end of the summer for reports on the way in which the waiting money arrangements are going to be reduced. The Dutch Government will look into whether a proposal is being made to this effect. We sincerely hope that the Dutch Government will succeed and that it will be able to gather some support for this in Europe. There is a very curious state of affairs with regard to the TTIP/CETA motion in part No. 1436 (21501/02). Yes, it has been accepted. Two parties, namely D66 and the PvdA, have indicated that they have made a mistake and a new vote is taking place. I hope we won't see messages tomorrow on the website of the First Chamber of, say, the senators Ter Horst, Linthorst and Duivetteijn in which they say they made a mistake because they didn't know what they were voting. It's not nice to change this. We would like to hear what guarantees there are in the Juncker plan. We share the government's concerns about the fact that they shouldn't actually be in it. We hope that the Juncker plan will manage to limit the possible involvement of the European Union and its possible costs to the 8 billion that will be directly taken out of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u107	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Prime Minister has indicated that he can respond directly to the motions tabled and answer the outstanding questions. I give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr. Chairman. I have a few comments to make before I come to the motions because I have also been asked a number of questions which challenge me to do so. I shall begin with the transparency of money flows from the Russian Federation to national political parties based in Europe. Party financing and transparency is a matter to be determined at national level. This is not a matter for the European Union. We have our own rules on party financing in the Netherlands. In other EU Member States, too, there are often rules on party financing. I do not know whether that is the case in France, because I have not been able to check it so quickly. I thought so. However, my political view is that there should be transparency about party financing and that this should apply at least to our own country. I can well imagine the questions put by Mr Pechtold in this respect, also because of the close connection between a party in this Chamber and the party he mentioned. Assuming that the facts mentioned by Mr Pechtold are correct, I can't verify that as soon as possible, I understand that question very well. That is also the best way to enforce transparency, challenge each other. You can also say that if in a country this type of money flows, if there are any, are in conflict with this kind of money, then that is not exactly what I can now verify, but it could be done with sanctions, which, of course, is a matter for the European Union. That should be looked at. Another point is transparency about non-discrimination. I think it is right that the Commission should set priorities. I agree that the fact that something takes a long time cannot be the only reason to delete something. I also agree with the importance of issues such as non-discrimination and transparency. We remain committed to this; look at the modernisation of Eurowob, look at the accession to the Transparency Register. The fact that something is not on the agenda for 2015 does not mean that it is off the table; it can come back. I'm telling you honestly that I'm telling you this because I can't get any focus on what exactly shows that this would have fallen off the table. However, in order to ensure that I do not have this very sharp, I give this answer, which at least politically stresses the importance that is widely shared in the Chamber. I answered the questions about parliamentary involvement in the previous period. It's embedded in the system, because it's a co-production. Parliament is by definition involved. It remains to be seen whether it is more involved, but I have already tried to give a sensible answer in the previous period. Mr Van Bommel and Mr Verheijen raised questions and made comments on the Juncker plan. I also have my questions about the size and leverage. In the end, we must assess the proposal in concrete terms. How did you get from an inlay of 16 or 21 billion to 315 billion? Well, there's a story for that, but we're gonna take a really good look at it. Ultimately, this depends heavily on the involvement of the private sector, not so much on the size of the amount, but on the success of the project. We must set up the fund in such a way that the private sector wants to participate, and I agree with Mr Verheijen. With regard to infrastructure, I would like to say that the Netherlands has the most beautiful road network in Europe, at least in Western Europe. We financed that ourselves. I would like this fund to focus on sectors with growth potential, R&D and innovation. Things like the road network are a kind of sanity factor. It must be regulated nationally, at the level of the Member State. I was surprised to see large signs in Spain in the past that these beautiful roads were made possible by support from the Union. That is what we used to do, but this fund was meant for the economy 2.0. But we also need projects that may interest private parties. There are currently no plans to give additional support to Ukraine. It is true that the IMF is looking at this, but so should the IMF. At the beginning of this month there was a session in which the programme looked at whether or not there are funding gaps, but that is still very preliminary. There are no proposals to transfer extra money to Ukraine. With regard to the CIA and other countries, it is now important to ensure that the countries themselves do their own research, I say to Mr Omtzigt. If we get the feeling at some point that there are too many indications that some countries were involved and are not doing that research nationally, then we need to re-examine whether there could be a role for the Council of Europe, for example; I cannot judge that exactly now, but it is conceivable. Finally, I refer to the issue of September or October in our response to the Juncker plan. I will see if September or October is a good time for such an update, but Mr Omtzigt and I understood each other. I want the motion in part no. 925 with a reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 926 has been discussed in detail in the debate, and I would also like to advise against it for that reason. Also the motion in part No. 927 has been discussed in detail in the debate and I therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. 928 has been discussed in detail and I advise against it for that reason. The motion in part No. 929 is a sympathetic motion, but I have one small problem with that. In the last sentence, it says "to be effective" and that is a result obligation. If I may read it as an effort commitment, I agree, we can accept the motion without further ado and I can also recommend it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u109	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u110	Good, then we agree with each other 100% and I hope that this motion will be adopted. I need the motion in part no. 930 with reference to the debate, as well as the motion on item No. 931. The motion in part No. 932 is superfluous; look at the Eurogroup report. I'm afraid I can't recommend any unnecessary motions. That's what I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u111	We shall be voting this afternoon on the motions that have been tabled. First we have an extra arrangement of work.
