ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, as well as the people in the public gallery and everyone in the Chamber. In view of the special circumstances, the Prime Minister has asked me if he can make a short statement before the debate. I allowed that. We don't do interruptions until the government's deadline is right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u2	Madam President. I appreciate that the Chamber is giving me the opportunity to make a statement prior to this debate. I apologize for the very late hour, by the way. Last Tuesday, the First Chamber voted against the bill banning vertical integration. This created a problem. The bill is an essential part of our agreements to keep healthcare in the Netherlands accessible, affordable and high quality. As I have said before, it is important that we keep the agreements we make in politics with each other. It has not escaped your notice that since then all the parties involved have had intensive discussions in different places and in varying compositions. The will to get out was great. The latter counts in politics. Where there is a will, there is a way, also in The Hague. The cabinet has confidence in having found a solution that does justice to the position of all parties concerned. Above all, we have a solution that helps to ensure that our healthcare system remains affordable and of high quality in the future. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the following two main points are central to the follow-up steps. Firstly, guaranteeing the free choice of doctors for everyone, regardless of the nature of the policy that someone has. Secondly, a good balance of power between insured and health insurance. The amended bill responds to the concerns and arguments raised in the Chambers. It will be resubmitted in the short term. The cabinet understands that there are no guarantees in advance in the state-law contexts. The discussions with interested parties and the adjustments give the cabinet confidence that this bill will be successfully finalised. If the bill is not adopted, the cabinet will consult with your Chamber to see how the healthcare agreement can be implemented. However difficult sometimes, in the end it is about results in politics. I have often argued in this Chamber that we should keep course, keep course for economic recovery, reform and keep our facilities affordable, especially for jobs and growth. That is what all of us, including the new year, have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u3	Thank you. Let us now begin the debate. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I must tell you that Mr Van Vliet has asked me to inform you that he is not in a position to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party, together with other parties, has worked hard in recent days to solve the problem that arose last Tuesday. The hours that have passed since that time have also caused uncertainty, time and a lot of waiting, including from your Chamber. I apologise for that, because my party is also guilty of it. However, the step-by-step work has also led to a solution. We have just received a letter from the cabinet proposing that an amended bill be sent to the Chamber. That seems to us to be a sensible option, because it also offers opportunities. It offers opportunities to strengthen the patient's position, ensure the free choice of doctors, strengthen the position of insured persons vis-à-vis insurers and thus create a better balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u5	Mr Samsom says that there is a change which now secures the free choice of doctors. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u6	It offers a chance. We have seen only a few contours of a modified bill, and it offers an opportunity to guarantee that doctor's choice is indeed even better. For example, by giving a sharper definition of acute care, in which the choice of doctors is completely free. For example, by ensuring that academic care is always contracted in every policy. Those are just two examples that will strengthen the current legislative proposal. As far as we are concerned, that is an opportunity that we can now seize to improve matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u7	I must disappoint Mr Samsom. This is not the time for commercials, after the chaos of the past week. He says here: the free choice of doctors is even better guaranteed. So apparently no one understood and the bill was about securing the free choice of doctors. I would like to hear from the Minister and the Prime Minister that this is the case. The free choice of doctors is now even better secured. If I ask Mr Zijlstra the same question, I will expect the same answer. Is this bill a restriction on the free choice of doctors, or isn't it? That's my first question. I have a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u8	This bill was certainly not just about securing the free choice of doctors. This bill is about, for example, better quality care, enabling health insurers not to contract too expensive, unnecessary or poor care. This seems to us to be an improvement in the quality of care. That's what this bill was about. This bill also deals with the position of insured persons vis-à-vis their insurer. After the Kuiper motion, which was adopted in the First Chamber, an amended bill offers the opportunity to strengthen that position slightly. That's one of the cases I mentioned. I don't talk commercials here for any bill. I do not think that this debate goes into detail. However, I would say that a renewed, amended legislative proposal also offers opportunities. My group appreciates these opportunities, and we would certainly like to seize them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u9	If this bill is such an improvement, then there must be an incredible mess in Mr Samsom's party because three senators vote against it after this advertising. There's a lot of work to do, I'd say, and have no illusions. This bill is not an improvement. If that is the case, then I say congratulations, because then Mr Samsom got the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u10	The three senators did not vote in favour of the improved bill, because it has not yet been tabled. However, Mr Van Haersma Buma is right: over the last few days, of course, we have used it to talk mainly, including with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Those talks expressed concerns and wishes. We are thinking with the adjustments to meet these concerns and wishes, and we are therefore also confident that an amended legislative proposal will achieve the desired majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u11	I also insisted on it, as did Mr Buma. With nice, smooth talk, you put sand in people's eyes. The free choice of doctors is just gonna die hard. If I go to a psychologist now with whom the health insurance company does not have a contract, at least at the moment I have the right to 80% compensation. That goes to zero. Will Mr Samsom deny that this is indeed the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u12	It depends on which policy you take. You are also not sure if you are entitled to 80%, because there are also insurance companies that pay 60% or 50%. I can assure you that a psychologist will pass on half the hourly rate to you. That's a lot of money and then the choice of doctors is very limited. It is precisely about the possibilities to make policies that offer those choices, for example, where multiple healthcare providers are contracted for the same discipline, so that as a patient you have a choice, in which the care obligation of the health insurance provider is guaranteed, so that you can always get close to the right healthcare provider. That kind of guarantee was already in the rejected bill. They will, of course, remain in place and will be slightly improved in the amended bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u13	So this is throwing the sand in the eyes. A key element of the law is that if the health insurance company does not have a contract, your fee will be reduced to zero, unless you can pay it yourself or if you can pay an extra insurance. In this example, the free choice of doctors for a large part of the population is simply gone. Just be honest now, as you always thought you were in the past, and just say: yes, that's right, that free choice of doctors is severely affected. That was one of the reasons why three senators of the Labour Party said: that goes too far for us, we do not want it, and that is where we are crossing a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u14	Over the last few weeks many stories of various plumage have been written in the newspapers about the numbers of doctors' choices. I believe that this debate has already taken place in this Chamber. What I'm talking about is the situation that arose last Tuesday, when the bill was rejected. The letter that has now been sent to the Chamber announces an amended bill. This offers opportunities to improve a number of things compared to the previous bill. Let us not now discuss the previous legislative proposal in detail. As far as I am concerned, this does not seem to me to be the reason for this debate. I note only that the changes announced in the letter from the cabinet are satisfactory to my group, because they offer opportunities to strengthen the patient's position, to ensure the choices and to strengthen the position of the insured in relation to the increasingly large insurers. That sounds like profit to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u15	I read in the letter that the legislative proposal that was before us and which, in its essence, will have to go through the House of Representatives again, simply means more power for the health insurance companies and thus now also undermines the free choice of doctors. That's against the principles of the Labour Party, I always thought. This is what you stand for. Be honest to say: I made a deal with the VVD and that's why we do that. Don't go throwing sand in people's eyes saying that the free choice of doctors has remained, because it hasn't stayed and you don't want to let them stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u16	Your election program and ours were similar. That was precisely where the choice of doctors was very limited, because we worked towards much more guidance in the care. But that aside. We are talking here about the amendments to the bill. Those adjustments offer opportunities. We think it is right to seize these opportunities, which is why we appreciate the letter from the cabinet announcing these adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u17	Many people at home who heard on Tuesday that the bill had been rejected by the Senate were happy. They thought: fortunately, it will not be the case that free choice of doctors is restricted. Now I would very much like to know from Mr Samsom whether these people are right to be happy or whether they are going to have to deal with the same bill again, in which there is a little more control over patients here and there, but the core of which is simply a restriction on the choice of doctors. There's no question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u18	I can't speak for those people. I don't know their trade-offs. I do know my own and my group's. This legislative proposal is not just about this, but about many things that can improve the quality of care and increase the transparency of policies. This will ensure that too expensive, unnecessary or poor care is no longer contracted. As far as we are concerned, this kind of strengthening of the healthcare system was at the heart of the legislative proposal. I would add that the amended proposal offers opportunities to improve a number of things. We are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u19	I do not hear Mr Samsom deny that the restriction of free choice of doctors, which was so much to do, has changed anything. That is what remains in the new legislative proposal. This is also in line with Mr Zijlstra's statements to the NIS. He said: to the left or to the right, we will stick to the agreements we made with the care partners. I would therefore like to know again from Mr Samsom whether it is true that this means that in fact nothing will change with the new legislative proposal. If the First Chamber does not agree, the cabinet, on the left or on the right, will make sure that free choice of doctors is restricted by all kinds of ruse. Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u20	Mrs Thieme asks for my appreciation of Mr Zijlstra's statement. He said, "We want to stick to those agreements we made. That's right. So does the PvdA Group. We stand for the agreements that have been made, including in that healthcare agreement. That is not insignificant, because that healthcare agreement deals with many issues that can improve care, increase transparency, strengthen the patient's position and also manage costs. The latter is not insignificant at this time either. That is what we are in favour of; that is what we are in favour of. We are confident that an amended bill will be able to comply with these agreements, which can improve care and strengthen the patient's position. We also note that the cabinet says that, should it not go through this bill, the cabinet will consult with the Chamber in other ways. We understand that very well, after what happened in the last week. In the end, we are concerned with the result. The result must be that the patient's position is improved, that free choice of doctors is guaranteed in one way or another, but also that health insurers are allowed no longer to contract too expensive, or bad, or unnecessary care. That is the result we are going for. The best way to do that is through this modified bill. We have confidence in that, but we also understand very well that the cabinet says: if that could not be expected, then we would like to consult with the House of Representatives to see how it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u21	With a lot of words, Mr Samsom actually says: if the proposal dies in the First Chamber one more time, then we're just gonna figure out a way to get past the First Chamber. Is that right, or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u22	If the proposal falls unexpectedly, we are going to come up with something to ensure that the objectives we stand for and fight for are achieved. I am aiming for better care, a better position for the patient and opportunities not to contract too expensive care. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u23	I am surprised that, within three minutes of this debate, Mr Samsom admits that it will be dealt with on the left or right. Whether the First Chamber agrees or not, it will be arranged. We're gonna try it first through the Lower House. We create an opportunity, it's said all the time. It is not clearly stated what is being proposed. However, if the First Chamber rejects that proposal again, we are going to come up with a ruse to circumvent the First Chamber. That can't be the PvdA's angle, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u24	Mrs Van Tongeren chooses her own words. We do not choose the approach as she now puts it. We do not invent a trick. We work with the legislation we then have. Within that legislation, we will then look for ways of achieving a number of goals, which we had agreed with each other in that healthcare agreement, among other things. I am referring, on the one hand, to ensuring the free choice of doctors and, on the other hand, to enabling health insurers to improve their quality of care. This means that health insurance companies no longer contract too expensive or bad care. This can be done, for example, within the legislation with a General Measure of Governance. With that, you can't achieve the same thing as with a new law. Our legislator has, of course, also laid it down in history. We have all voted here in the House of Representatives in favour of a law that makes it possible, within the framework of that law, to regulate matters within the framework of that law. For example, you can arrange with a General Measure of Management that a health insurance provider who contracts a very low number of healthcare providers will be obliged to provide a high level of compensation if the patient, because of that poor choice, goes to another healthcare provider, who has not been contracted. At the same time, you can enable the health insurance provider who has contracted a very wide range of healthcare providers to not compensate for the care that is then sought outside that offer. In this balance, therefore, you will find exactly the two objectives, namely improving the quality of care and ensuring the patient's position. You can do that with an AMvB. That's one of the possibilities. I can tell Mrs Van Tongeren that if the cabinet comes up with such a proposal, my group will look very favourably at it, because we do want to keep to those agreements. This seems to us to be a good option within the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u25	Mr Samsom needs incredibly many words to confirm that in this way the bill may be slightly modified with mirrors and beads and that it will go through the Upper Chamber. He also immediately explains to the Chamber that if that does not work, the same proposals must be passed through an AMvB and that apparently that is only for financial purposes. Can Mr Samsom confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u26	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u27	Could Mr Samsom then explain to me what the consequences will be if the First Chamber says, on fundamental grounds, that it has not responded to its objections? Then what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u28	First of all, we have spoken extensively over the last few days and hours. You have had to wait a long time for that, for which I apologize again. At that time, we also spoke with our First Chamber and tasted what the concerns and wishes are. The changes that have now been announced are in line with this. We have absolute confidence that legislation can do it. Those aren't mirrors and beads. I would not like to mention the full implementation of the Kuiper motion, adopted unanimously in the First Chamber, as a mirror or a bead. That's an adopted motion with improvements in it. Mrs Van Tongeren asks if we will then arrange for the costs to be reduced with an AMvB. No, we can't settle the same thing with an AMvB as we do with a law. This is how our legislation has been put together. With an AMvB you can always arrange less. However, you can certainly meet the commitments we made in the healthcare agreement with each other. Not because they are agreements that you only want to keep, although that is not insignificant, but because they serve a purpose: better quality care, strengthen the patient's position and thus achieve better care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u29	Mr President, let us make it less technical and more political. Could I ask Mr Samsom, through you, how he now describes the role of his party, the Labour Party, and of himself as a political leader, in this debate last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u30	On the role of the Labour Party, I can say that it did not deserve the beauty prize in every respect in the past week. That's what I said. I really leave it to others to review myself. I think you can do that very well. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u31	Well, let me give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u32	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u33	I think it's a glove to pick up. Mr Samsom, as we have seen in a morning newspaper, does not always control himself, but he does not control his group here either. As a political leader, he has no control over his group in the First Chamber. He almost dropped the cabinet this week. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. You have not succeeded, but you almost have that on your conscience. You still have 10 or 11 seats behind you in the polls. Mr Samsom, is it not time to ask for a second opinion of your own, to stop for once, to let someone else do it and say: I'm just making a big mess of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u34	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u35	Why not? What you should do, Mr Samsom, is to stop and remove the Labour Party from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u36	Mr Samsom indicated that he had spoken to the members of his group in the Upper Chamber. At RTL Nieuws I read the following quote from Senator Ter Horst: "Instantly, we have gotten close together, but the last push that is demanded, that we say yes in advance to a text that we have not yet seen, that can and should not be done under state law (...)." Is that the conversation Mr Samsom had?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u37	I don't think a second opinion is necessary. Nor do I think it will help solve the problems we have. I started this because we want to realize a number of things. In this case, it is about better care in the Netherlands. I told you what happened last Tuesday certainly doesn't deserve the beauty prize. After all, you want to assume that if you hang out with each other, so many groups work here and also discuss the content with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, you can trust that that bill can count on a majority there too. That didn't happen. I don't blame the First Chamber for that, by the way. They make their own decision. That is why this risk is always decided and also the duty for, in this case, myself to solve the problem that has arisen. I am glad that hard work and a great deal of waiting have been done, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u38	Mr President, concluding. Mr Samsom, of course, has brought his party nothing but misery. It would please him if he admitted it. The Labour Party has gone downhill since you became the political leader and sat in the cabinet. You barely have any voters left. You have dissidents across the street and you have them here. Mr. Rutte no longer trusts you, believe me. This is a postponement of execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u39	I fully agree with Mrs Ter Horst's statement. From a to z. A good conversation with each other seems wise to me in a party. That also creates trust. But, of course, there can never be a prior guarantee. You know state law as well as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u40	Can I conclude from this that a conversation for Mr Samsom is the same as demands and that a senator should say yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u41	No, you can't, because I told you exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u42	I think Mr Samsom is the last person in this Chamber to joke about this today, but that aside. This is a statement from Senator Ter Horst. This is a very different explanation from the one given by Mr Samsom here today. There's a discrepancy between that and that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u43	Mrs Ter Horst talks about something that would be demanded and says that this cannot be done. That's right. That was not demanded by us in the talks either, because we know the law of the state. We have tried to create trust in each other, trust on the basis of which we can submit this bill, but there are never any guarantees under state law. We couldn't ask for that either. In most cases this does not have to be done, but as a result of last week, I understand that the cabinet says: if it does not succeed despite all the good talks, then we are working on an alternative. We support this, because ultimately the content and the result are paramount for us. The result must be that patients have more certainty, that the choice of doctors remains secure, that healthcare insurers have opportunities to strengthen care and improve quality and that we work in this way to improve care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u44	Thank you for your contribution. Wait a minute, Mr. Roemer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u45	Mr Samsom may try to run away, but I still have one question, if he doesn't mind. Mr Samsom rightly said that it is up to the members of the First Chamber to make their own assessment. Wouldn't it be nice to respect the Supreme Court in its decision? The First Chamber rejected this law with these key elements for reasons of principle 38 to 33. So the law's off the table. The cabinet does not like that, Mr Samsom does not like that, but we do live in the rule of law here. Now Mr Samsom actually says: if the law goes back to the First Chamber and the one who votes away again, then I don't respect it, because then we're going to come up with all kinds of clever tricks to get it done. Is that how you look at the rule of law, Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u46	First of all, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, at least the minority within the Labour Party, did not reject anything for reasons of principle. Mrs Beuving's explanation of vote was very clear. In their opinion, a number of things were not properly secured in the law. So they've been modified. In my view, that is the opposite of ignoring the wishes of the First Chamber. That is listening to the wishes of not only the Upper House, but also those here in the Lower House. I have been able to follow the debate. There were many concerns here in exactly the same areas. It also offers an opportunity for all of us to move forward with an improved proposal. In addition, if that bill were to be rejected in this Chamber or in the Upper Chamber, we would respect it and we would arrange something else. We will not arrange the same thing, because it will require a change of law, and that was not possible. But something else can be done, something else that serves the same purpose, because ultimately those objectives, the better position for the patient, opportunities for the health insurance provider not to contract too expensive care, for example, and thus to control the costs in care, are central to us. I do want to respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u47	The letter is clearly different and also the comments surrounding it. It's been denied that the First Chamber voted the law out. The law is gone. He's off the table. A new procedure can be initiated through the Lower House, Council of State, Second Chamber back to the Upper Chamber. In the letter it says: should the First Chamber vote on the proposal, then we will come up with all kinds of tricks to get it done anyway. That is, in essence, the non-respect of the First Chamber. This is a banana republic-like activity under state law. I cannot imagine that Mr Samsom, as a democrat, supports this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u48	Those are really big words. When the bill on ritual slaughter was rejected in the First Chamber, a similar option was then settled through a General Measure of Management. I'm talking about "like," because of course you can't regulate the same thing; there's a need for a change of law. That would happen here, too. That is not a trick, it is done within the possibilities that the House of Representatives has under the legislation. That is, moreover, guaranteed, because within a General Measure of Management, the frameworks of the law cannot be changed. And that's a good thing, I say as a democrat. However, with a General Measure of Governing Board......................................................................................................................................................... We do this almost daily in this Chamber with General Management Measures. That's not a banana republic, it's making sure your ideals get closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u49	No, that's ignoring the First Chamber. It is not for nothing that a legislative proposal is voted down twice, but then we say that we want to continue with the main thrust of that legislative proposal. That looks like a government decree and we should not go there in the Netherlands. I'm sorry to break it to you like that, but the First Chamber is just being ignored.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u50	Last Tuesday, a bill was rejected. That's why the cabinet is coming up with an amended bill. That bill has not just been amended, but has been adapted on the basis of the discussions we have had, among other things with the Eerste Kamer Group, and the many objections we have heard in this Chamber when dealing with the law. That is not an insult to any Chamber, that is listening to the objections and acting on them. Mr Roemer anticipates the outcome. The cabinet is also doing so, which seems to me to be sensible, but it does say that it wants to consult with the Chamber to see how we are going to achieve it. That is in no way an insult to any Chamber; that is respect for the Chamber. It is therefore important that groups indicate how they stand in that consultation. I have put that forward on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u51	Mr Samsom said just now that the Kuiper motion was translated into the letter now sent to the Chamber. However, the Kuiper motion was adopted unanimously in the Upper Chamber. Why did the senators vote against it at the time? We are now receiving a letter explaining the Kuiper motion again point by point by point. I spoke about mirrors and beads, Mr Samsom called it fundamentally different. Why would the same senators agree to that this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u52	Because the objections went beyond the Kuiper motion. That is why the letter also announces a number of other improvements to the law, which are outside the Kuiper motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u53	Could Mr Samsom explain to the Chamber where the differences are? We put the Kuiper motion next to the letter and saw that that motion was almost one-on-one included in the letter. Mr Samsom also says that everything is not translated literally, but that it is an opportunity and that these things can be thought of. However, the Kuiper motion was adopted unanimously, so that is already in the package. The First Chamber said not to agree to that package.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u54	That is because the senators had even more objections than the objections raised in the Kuiper motion. That motion is now fully in place; that is good. In addition, the letter states, for example, that there will be a better and more explicit definition of acute care. This is important because the free choice of doctors is fully guaranteed in acute care. The letter also states that academic care will always be contracted. Those are things that are not in the Kuiper motion, because that motion was about very different things. This motion was about something very important, namely the position of insured persons vis-à-vis insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u55	These last points are not substantially different from what has been agreed at present. Doesn't this show that Mr Samsom doesn't really trust his own First Chamber? An already adopted motion is translated into a letter and then it is said: if you do not agree to this, we will still implement the agreed healthcare agreement through an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u56	This is not apparent from the adoption of the Kuiper motion and a number of other changes in the law. It is precisely this that shows that we are confident that, after these changes have been made, the First Chamber will be able to support the legislative proposal. That trust is not a guarantee of state law; we know that. That is why, especially after last week's events, the cabinet announces that, in this unexpected situation in consultation with us, we are still going to be looking at the gremium in which this consultation is to take place to see how the objectives can be met. It is about the objectives that we are currently working on: improving the position of the patient, improving the quality of care and managing the costs of care, so that premiums can remain low. Those are the objectives that we are going for. We'd like to reach them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u57	Mr Samsom indicated that there was a beauty error last Tuesday, because three PvdA-First Chamber members voted against the bill. But fortunately, Mr Samsom says, because if I listen to him correctly, he says that the law will only improve, that the free choice of doctors will become stronger. In short, it is a victory of the Labour Party that we are now standing here and that the law can proceed as it is presented. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u58	I can give many qualifications from the past week, but not that this was a victory of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u59	Then how do you assess the attitude of those three PvdA senators, who ultimately led to this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u60	I've said before that I fully respect their position. They made their own assessment and concluded that they could not support this bill. That is why we have had a discussion with them and are now being proposed by the Cabinet, which I have the confidence they can count on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u61	And because it ultimately leads to an improvement in the proposal. It was a worse proposal. The Labour Party finally won from the VVD by the efforts of the three senators of the Labour Party by submitting this new law. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u62	This isn't a competition. What we're doing here is not trying to beat each other, but to strengthen the patient's position and improve care. I am pleased that this has come a step closer because the Cabinet has announced that it will send to the Chamber an amended legislative proposal which will achieve those objectives. After working hard in recent days, we believe that there should be confidence that this bill can count on a majority in this and the other Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u63	The cabinet initially chose to deal with the bill along the royal route of the Second and First Chambers. That failed, we can see that. In the letter this evening, the cabinet states that it intends to follow the same path again, but adjusted and improved as far as my group is concerned. But now I'm reading at the bottom of pag. 2 that particular phrase that if it did not succeed, another possibility would be sought with the Chamber. There is no longer talk of the total States-General, but of the House of Representatives. Mr Samsom now states that this could be an AMvB. I ask Mr Samsom: if you finish that royal route twice, isn't it weird to say to that House of Representatives; that House of Lords after the House of Lords, right now: it doesn't matter what you vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u64	It doesn't matter. If the First Chamber also unexpectedly rejects the amended bill, it will not go on, with everything that is in it and that is quite something. We also want to ensure that some of the essential elements necessary to maintain, for example, the Main Lines Agreement, which contains so much regularity, will continue. That's different from the bill, because that was then rejected. It's a lot less, because an AMvB is always less ambitious, because you can't change the frameworks of the law, but in this case it does what is necessary to comply with the agreements of the Main Line Agreement, to strengthen the patient's position, to enable the health insurance provider to improve the quality of care and to achieve better care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u65	I address Mr Samsom as a fellow MEP. 223 colleagues have completed a process once more and will probably end that process again, if it is up to the cabinet to do so. Wherever my group is concerned at this stage, and I shall immediately ask the cabinet, the threat is that an important part will be taken care of. We're not talking about a state of emergency here. I would ask Mr Samsom to reflect on this once again and, with me, to question the cabinet firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u66	The intention of this cabinet if the bill is rejected unexpectedly is to settle with this Chamber a number of matters that are important for the Main Line Agreement. With this Chamber alone you can arrange less than with an entirely new law. That is precisely the nature of legislation. With AMvB's it is possible to reach agreements with one Room. That's always less ambitious than a whole law. For that lesser ambition we choose. We'd rather have that bill. I'm still assuming it's gonna work. However, if that does not work, I will not let the ambition go down to zero. I should also like to hope that other parliamentarians in this Parliament do not do so. Ultimately, the goal for us must be to achieve better care in the Netherlands. I'm not gonna abandon that ambition, ever. If it does not work with a very nice law, we will do it with a General Measure of Governance, which is less beautiful, but which does bring a number of objectives closer. Step by step, these objectives are brought closer. That's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u67	Mr Samsom expressed the confidence that a new legislative proposal with these adjustments could reach the final stage. That confidence is also reflected in the letter. Then why is he speculating about what should happen if the bill is not going to make it? That sounds suspicious. That is the kind of as-dan reasoning that Mr Samsom normally says: shouldn't we get started?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u68	Normally, but not after last Tuesday. The cabinet has already thought it necessary to anticipate a situation in which a legislative proposal is not adopted. That is quite special indeed, but of course this has to do with the fact that a bill was not adopted last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u69	But then the question arises as to why Mr Samsom mentions the possibility of an AMvB, while in the very extensive legal treatment we have had with each other, it has always been said that the current law, including the possibility of AMvBs, does not offer sufficient possibilities. It was therefore necessary to amend the law, via the Royal route, in order to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u70	That is right, for these objectives set out in the law, a law is needed. However, for slightly less ambitious targets, which are still sufficient to take a step forward towards better care, an AMvB is enough. That is the difference that the legislator aims to achieve between laws and AMvBs with a heavier or a lighter front. These differences are proportional as their impact is greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u71	According to Mr Samsom, is there now a provision in the Health Insurance Act that allows you to lay down new rules specifically for this situation? Or does Mr Samsom invoke the very general provision that the implementation of laws can always be governed by AMvB rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u72	In this law, the legislator has chosen to create the possibility to create an AMvB in a general provision that regulates additional matters for the law. I wasn't one of the practitioners of this law when it was adopted eight or nine years ago, but I can imagine. Care is a very complex subject and you cannot therefore predict in advance what further rules should be laid down. Therefore, an article was chosen entirely behind in the law creating a general coat rack to lay down detailed rules. I think that's a good idea. The Chamber voted in favour. By the way, the First Chamber also voted in favour at that time. In this way, a law has been made possible in which an AMvB is incorporated that is only agreed with the Lower House. That is also framed, because with such an AMvB you cannot extend the frameworks of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u73	It is sometimes said that a man suffers most from the suffering he fears. I got that feeling a little when I read in the cabinet letter the speculation of possibly rejecting the bill again. I don't think we've ever seen this in a cabinet letter in this way before. Does Mr Samsom share my view that if this happens for the second time in the First Chamber, with the same scenario as this week, namely that members of a coalition group vote against, this is a political reality that you should take extremely seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u74	Yes. That reality occurred last Tuesday. So you have to take it very seriously. I am sorry that we involved the Chamber in this. That is no different, because of course we wanted to discuss this together in the Chamber. However, we have taken this extremely seriously. Over the last three days, we have worked hours after hours to ensure that the objections, which have apparently been raised by these three senators, as well as by other senators, because several senators have rejected the bill, have been taken seriously and listened to. This has also been reflected in the amended legislative proposal. As a result, we can now have confidence that the bill will pass. I call that "take it seriously." Other people can make lighter judgments about that. However, Mr Slob is right: it is a situation that you must take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u75	I am now talking about the speculation of the cabinet that this is going to happen for a second time. I'm not talking about the first time. That is a situation that we have indeed had our hands full this week, particularly Mr Samsom and the people who are in trade-k. However, if it were to happen for the second time, it would be a political reality that you cannot ignore. Does Mr Samsom share my view that state law is very impure if it gives the impression that the problem of the First Chamber could be avoided by a U-turn through an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u76	No, but I would like to take away the impression that what the First Chamber then rejects can be bypassed by a U-turn. You can't, because you can't arrange the same thing again via an AMvB. You can arrange something else via an AMvB: something that is less ambitious, but still enough to keep the main agreement, which we consider so important, to which Mr Slob's party has also given its support, so that care in the Netherlands can get a little better and the costs can also be controlled, fully maintained. We are in favour of this agreement, because we believe that the improvements contained in it are desirable. If we can arrange this, even if it is less ambitious and not the same, then it would be odd, frankly, if we all let it go. The legislator has created the possibility. There is an AMvB that meets that objective. Then why shouldn't we discuss that possibility with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u77	The control of healthcare costs is indeed a major issue, which we must also deal with very extensively, both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. However, I will continue with the speculation that the cabinet itself puts forward in the letter, namely that the First Chamber rejects a legislative proposal for the second time. If, then, elements are taken out of them that are again subject to an AMvB, this is a controversial legislative proposal, because it has been rejected, the First Chamber, which was against it, can be avoided. I ask Mr Samsom again: how pure is that in a state-law sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u78	If it were to be exactly as Mr Slob describes it, that purity would be doubtful. However, no element is extracted; a part of an element is extracted. After all, you can't arrange the same thing as what you need the law for. Otherwise, we would have done it differently. I'll take care of some of it. That part brings us one step closer to the final solution. It would be crazy if we didn't have that opportunity. At least I'm not, because I want to get one step closer to that better care.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u79	Mr. Samsom, do you see what's happening? There are three constructive friends in your words: D66, SGP and Christian Union. All three of them say to you, "Don't! Those are the people who have been dog-sloyal to you, who voted for the bill in the First Chamber, a bill that at least two of those three parties, if I remember correctly, were that the Christian Union and the SGP were not really in favour at all. They say to you, "Don't do it." And you say, climb into a tree. Is that your message?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u80	The PvdA Group, like you, has read the letter. It has seen that the cabinet intends, if the bill is not adopted unexpectedly, to enter into a discussion with this Chamber. Then it is up to a group to determine its position. That's what I did here. Other groups determine their position, which is sometimes different from that of my group among the constructive opposition parties. That's the way it should be in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u81	How they must feel, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Slob. They've been more loyal than loyal. Since the crematorium agreement, they've supported everything. They voted for the bill last Tuesday, unlike three dissidents. And what do the Labour Party and the Cabinet now say to these three? You can go down the tree; thank you for the good services, but look at it; in the dirt. Well, Mr. Pechtold, have fun with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u82	I don't think that was a question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u83	Mr. Chairman. Everyone has noticed that earlier this week Article 13 of the bill for the ban on vertical integration was rejected. That was for me. That won't surprise you. That's an unpleasant surprise. But let me be clear: the VVD is not here because politics is always so fun; she is here to make the Netherlands better. If we want to save the quality and affordability of care for the future, we need to take action now. The bill was an essential part of the healthcare agreement, an agreement between the coalition parties VVD and PvdA, an agreement between constructive opposition parties D66, ChristenUnion and SGP and an agreement with many parties in the healthcare sector itself: insurers, healthcare providers, patient organisations. We have a very difficult task ahead of us. In times of crisis, we must also ensure that our dear and good care system, if our children are to use it, is still so good. The parties who took responsibility for this also had to accept things that were less fun, but they accepted the total because of the greater importance. Let this be clear: if one of the parties fails to comply with an agreement, there is a problem. That's what happened last Tuesday. You can rest assured that after the vote in the Senate, some unparliamentary words were also omitted from me. The question then was: is it possible for the PvdA to deliver that we can fill in the core of the healthcare agreement? Can we ensure that we avoid an unnecessary increase in the healthcare premium? Can we ensure that we avoid an unnecessary increase in our own risk? Can we ensure that we avoid unnecessary reduction of the basic package? Can we reduce the cost of care by reducing the bureaucracy in care? That was the core. Do we as a VVD have the confidence that the PvdA can deliver that? The good news is, we have that confidence now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u84	I leave Mr Zijlstra's frighteningness to him. We shall have that debate again. I am concerned that Mr Zijlstra has less respect for the First Chamber. I know by now that he would prefer to abolish it, but as long as that First Chamber is there, I think it's the least you can ask for respectful handling of that Chamber. Appointments are made here between parties. Appointments are made in the Lower House. But it seems to Mr Zijlstra that it is then a one-on-one that senators should also be on the line of the cabinet and also have to dance to the tune of this cabinet. It can't be that he's demanding that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u85	I don't think I took the word "demand" in my mouth. I can expect that it is not very strange that if you conclude an agreement with the parties to increase the chances of a majority in the First Chamber, you will assume that and I will not have been the only one to say that that majority will indeed be there because you have made substantive concessions. If that majority does not then come, surely because a coalition party cannot deliver, I find that, quite frankly, one thing, Mr Roemer, does it bother me that I am equally unpleasantly surprised? That's different than me demanding things. I would also like to say something about a persistent misunderstanding. I have the impression that I have now become a sort of "head abolition First Chamber." I indicated that if the First Chamber became a copy of the Lower House, there would be little additional use. That is why we have also asked in the First Chamber for a state committee to keep the total order under review. As far as I am concerned, everything must be aimed at ensuring that the valuable task of the First Chamber is properly completed and that our state system continues to function.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u86	With this pressure it has put on the senators of the First Chamber, the cabinet makes a Second Chamber. Mr Zijlstra should therefore not be angry with the PvdA senators, but with the cabinet. Members of the Cabinet have in advance asked for a guarantee from senators to indicate that they are going to vote in favour of that law. That law must first come to the House of Representatives. I would like to hear Mr Zijlstra's opinion on this. Doesn't he think that's unwise, unparliamentary and undemocratic towards senators in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u87	I've seen all sorts of things over the past few days on the ANP, on Twitter and so on. I have seen statements, including those of myself, which I think are handsome in themselves, given that I have not spoken to the person at all and have not said that either. There was a lot of speculation. We can tell beautiful anecdotes. I'll leave that out now. Otherwise, it's gonna be later. Let us be clear: we conclude agreements here to maximize the chance that these agreements will reach the finish line in the First Chamber, because these agreements are important. That is what we do, and that is what parties in this Chamber have done in different constellations. Then, of course, there is also contact with the Upper Parliamentary Groups. I think that's the right thing to do. We respect the role of the First Chamber. We can never ask in advance for them to vote in favour. We are trying to ensure that we build in that security as much as possible, but we can never demand it. It also happens in other constellations. Neither Mr Van der Staaij, nor Mr Slob, nor Mr Pechtold, nor Mr Van Ojik, has said about the treatment of the loan system in the First Chamber: our First Parliamentary Group has signed by the cross and is going to deliver. But you're building maximum security. And that's what we do. That is what we have done, and that is what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u88	The respect that Mr Zijlstra claims to have is not evident from the facts, from the things that have happened. I can see why he's disappointed when a law that's very important to the VVD didn't make it. But the Upper House has a different role than the Lower House. If a majority in the Supreme Court votes away a law for its magical reasons, then we must respect it, however annoying it may be. Then I come to my second point that I would like to say to Mr Zijlstra. I asked him about an explanation for the fact that the cabinet had previously demanded the guarantee that there had not been any, and there was an agreement that the three senators, and indeed the entire PvdA Senate Group, would vote in favour of re-submission of the bill. What does Mr Zijlstra think of that? Or does he deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u89	I have been in many conversations recently, but not in discussions with members of the Supreme Court; not from my own party, but also from another party, to which Mr Roemer focuses in particular. I wasn't there, so I don't know what was said there either. What I do know is that, at my request, I should like to make it quite clear that the cabinet was looking for a way in which we could gain maximum confidence that there would not be a repetition of moves if the legislative proposal were resubmitted to the First Chamber in a modified form, after the legislative proposal had passed this Chamber first. Those are the conversations that took place. In the debate that took place in the First Chamber, several parties, sometimes unanimously, indicated a number of points on which they would like to be clarified. The Minister made a number of commitments there. One of the key points in the debate was that the members of the PvdA Group in the Senate indicated that they actually wanted the AMvB, to which Mr Kuiper's motion refers, to be actually known when voting on the law. Let me put it this way: they did. That went a little rough, but they did. And so there is ground for re-submission of the bill, including the points and commitments of the Minister that they have indicated. This remains at the heart of the legislative proposal and thus responds to the objections raised by these, as well as other members of the Senate, during the examination in the First Chamber. In doing so, I have the confidence that this legislative proposal will now be successful in reaching the final stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u90	Mr Zijlstra has just explained in detail how angry he was on Tuesday. The Minister has also spoken out very clearly: the PvdA has a problem and has to deliver. Now we're three days away. We have just heard Mr Samsom say how much the law has been amended in his direction and that free choice of doctors remains guaranteed. In return, you will have the confidence that three members of the First Chamber will vote in favour. However, you had that confidence until a day before Tuesday. In short, nothing has been brought in for you. It works if you have three of those First Chamber members. The PvdA just fucked you in the suit.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u91	I understand that Mr Buma is willing to spin it, with all due respect. However, let us be clear that in the last two days there has been extensive contact with members of the First Chamber about whether it would be a viable map if the bill were to be adapted to the concerns expressed, but the substance of the bill would remain unchanged. That's how the bill was and is free choice of doctors. I would like to say that there is an additional choice. The refund policy gives total free choice of doctor. That's the base. If a part of the freedom of choice is surrendered, one can get a discount, just as it is common in other insurance sectors. That's what's going on around free choice of doctors. Now let us stop sketching an image as if the free choice of doctors was compromised. I understand that opponents would like to do so, but that is of course not the issue. So nothing's been turned in. We are therefore confident that the legislative proposal will reach its conclusion. I have no reason to believe that this would not be the case, but in view of the situation, I will also go into the question as a dance. In the unexpected event that the bill would still fall in the First Chamber, we would like the cabinet to ensure that we do not end up with a situation that the patient still faces with his own risk, with a undressed package or with a higher care premium. That is what we want to avoid, and that is why we want the cabinet to come up with alternatives. We have now realised that you can fill that out if you come up with a possibility created by the legislator under the current law, namely Article 126 of the Health Insurance Act. Mr Samsom discussed this in detail. That is reassuring for me, but I assume that we will come out completely. I don't know if we're going to use that, because I'm assuming that this law will come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u92	The debate will still be about limiting the choice of doctors, but just for the record, because two representatives of the coalition are simply saying nonsense. From now on, from that law, when health insurance companies are given the right to offer a policy that no longer includes the free choice of doctors, that is a restriction on free choice of doctors. It's as simple as that. That debate will come back to the Upper House. Mr Zijlstra assumes that the chances are very high that he will get it through the Upper Chamber. Does that include Mr Zijlstra's assumption that the three tolerant parties will at least look positively at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u93	Respect for relations in the Chamber means respect for positions of political parties. We have a very good understanding with the constructive opposition, which, by the way, does not confine itself to three, but which also includes other parties in some areas, namely that it makes independent decisions and also looks at the issues which it can overcome. For example, Mr Slob was not automatically in favour of the original Article 13 legislative proposal, which is well-known and has also emerged in the debate. So he also forced concessions and got improvements in his direction, which ultimately allowed him to make the trade-off to say: we think it is much more important that we do not pass those rising costs of care on to the patient and we have the guarantees. That's still true. In fact, according to a motion by party colleague Kuiper, additional guarantees have been added in the First Chamber, so I have no reason to believe that the constructive opposition is going to vote against such a law by definition. But I cannot expect them, given the course of what has happened, to walk out of the hall immediately today in polonaise. No, it's not. That's their own way of thinking. I respect that, and I'm not running away from it. So I'm not gonna get involved in that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u94	We can all assume that this way of working would not have been followed with this letter if there were any indication that the three would look positively at it. That doesn't exactly explain why the three of them, but I'm gonna ask them that so angryly yelled that there's no deal. In fact, there is no deal, but if I understand correctly, they are wrapped in the word "confidence."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u95	As is well known, "trust" is an important word in politics. That's true here and in a lot of places. Not only do we have the confidence that this bill should now be able to reach its conclusion in an adapted form, precisely in view of the treatment. It is not the same bill, it is an amended bill, with issues that have been asked widely, sometimes unanimously, in the Upper House during the debate. If that does not happen, we are looking for alternatives, but I do not expect that to happen. However, as Mr Buma asked, I do have certain assurances that will bring the core to bear, namely the operation of the Health Insurance Act and ensure that care costs are not passed on to the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u96	I would like to continue with Mr Zijlstra to rely on that, because if you have faith in, in this case, the PvdA in the First Chamber, then the whole rest of that clothing is not necessary at all. I have heard Mr Zijlstra say up to three times that it is about trust, about great confidence and a great deal of trust, but his behaviour shows no confidence at all. It is simply said to Mr Samsom: "Come on, you made a mess of it the first time, but you can try again, boy. But I do want to have a guarantee in case things go wrong again, and that's why I want to meet with you in advance." It shows no confidence, but rather distrust. Mr Zijlstra would like to have discussed the whole arrangement with the AMvB in the Chamber now because that was also his quote in the media. Doesn't he agree with me that out of that behavior, there's no confidence at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u97	What that could have provoked is if the cabinet had written in the letter that in all cases it would have come up with such an AMvB. In my opinion, however, the cabinet has said, with respect for the position of the First Chamber, that it is looking for alternatives. What I think is important for patients' organisations and for those who make use of the care, is that we can deliver on the agreements in the healthcare agreement. We want to ensure that care costs are not unnecessarily passed on to patients and that agency creation in care is properly addressed. We can do that now because of what is ahead. That is not mistrust; that is to ensure that agreements are made between us, with the care sector and with the patient organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u98	Mr Zijlstra slides from confidence to content, but I really wanted to talk about the confidence that Mr Zijlstra has in the PvdA: I do trust you; you can try it again, but fail it, then I want to have the assurance that we will fix it afterwards. Mr Zijlstra wants to save 1 billion. In my very first interruption by Mr Samsom, that AMvB came straight out of the top hat. We had heard that in the media too, so that is clearly agreed. "Chanting" may be too heavy a word, but you're putting a lot of pressure on someone by saying that he can try to get it through the First Chamber one more time, but that it will happen anyway if it doesn't work out. That's the way things are going, isn't it? Surely Mr Zijlstra cannot deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u99	That could be the way things are going if you say "if you don't do this, we're going to do that." But it doesn't say that, and that's for a reason. The reason is that we respect the independent position of the Upper House. That is why we do not ask for guarantees in advance. However, we have made agreements with the healthcare sector that we want to comply with. They also want to honour Mr Samsom and the PvdA. We have set a very solid goal, together with other parties. We want to prevent the costs that are still in bureaucracy from being passed on to the patient. We're gonna make that happen, and I'm gonna tell you that it's gonna happen on the left or on the right. What alternatives that might be, I find a discussion that is quite hypothetical, because I read in the letter the amendments to the bill. With this I have the confidence that the wishes of the First Chamber have been met and that the bill will just reach the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u100	Mr Zijlstra says that it is not a 'if this, then that', but that is what he says. He leaves open the possibility that this will remain the case if the First Chamber rejects the bill again. There are a number of things in the explanatory statement, but it is also the Kuiper motion. It is not automatic that it is then regulated by General Measure of Management. The PvdA can try again, piloting the bill through the Upper House. But is there any possibility that it will remain so if it does not succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u101	The letter from the cabinet says that we are going to do it on bureaucracy, because we do not want to put patients out of business unnecessarily. We'd like to make that deal. That is why I think it is right that the cabinet should then look for alternatives. Once again, given the content of the letter and the concession to the First Chamber, I honestly believe that it will not be necessary at all. But we have to live up to that deal. That's what we're going for. That's what the cabinet's for. This is within the framework of the current law. Let that be clear from the law of the state. I've heard some things come through here every once in a while. It's being pretended to be some kind of violation of state law. No, this is state law. I thought Mr Roemer was right to refer to it at some point, and I thought that it would not be a state law if we demanded a written guarantee now and asked the members of the First Chamber to sign on the cross. It's an uncomfortable process under state law. However, it is true that the possibilities within a law passed by the Lower House and the Upper House are used. The First Chamber has deliberately accepted that Article 126 is included. That article gives the possibility to settle cases per AMvB. That's within the law. In no way can this be interpreted as doing something unbearable, towards any Chamber. Then we or at least our predecessors in the Lower House and/or Upper Chamber should have agreed that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u102	I thought I would have asked my last question, but in reply to my question Mr Zijlstra said something that raises questions again. He said: I am sure that the core of the law will stand. That leads me to ask what has been agreed between the five parties in recent days. That's what got away from the sighting. I understand. It's part of a trial like this. But now is the time to be accountable. What is the agreement between the five parties on how the law will be handled, which gives you the assurance that the core will remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u103	I do not have the impression that it was distracted from the attention given all the cameras that were set up on the left and right, here and for residential houses and so on. On the question of what the core is, we have extensively communicated. In the First Chamber there were a number of substantive points. I'll mention a few. We were asked how we can better ensure second opinion, better formulate definition of "acute care" and better ensure care by academic hospitals. Those were things on which the Minister made a number of commitments in the debate. But in the Chamber there was a strong idea: we want these things secured in the law. In addition, a number of members of the Senate needed that the matters requested in the AMvB in the context of Mr Kuiper's motion of the Christian Union, which was adopted unanimously by the First Chamber, should be clear and that the AMvB would be there at the time of the vote on the law. They have done so in a slightly rough way. I'd rather have seen it different, I say in all honesty. Let's be clear about that. But it worked. The situation is different now. Those things are gonna be in the law in a minute. Those wishes have been fulfilled. Those other matters that were settled per promise, we also put in the law. We said, "We're working on it now." Then we have secured it to the maximum for all members in the Upper Chamber who object. This improved the law and removed the main objection of those who voted against in the end. With that, I have the confidence that the law will come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u104	I will ask you again, because this is not an answer to my question. I have the impression that it has been discussed with the three that you were going to do this and that they think it is a reason to look at that law much more positively. I'm saying that because the three on the way out said very loudly: there's no deal. But I certainly have the impression that, although the word 'deal' cannot be formally used behind it, it has been spoken and perhaps even informally agreed. It is literally a 'gentlemen's agreement' here to vote in favour of that law and to give that confidence when it comes to amendments. Is there an agreement on that? The answer to this question is so important, because then we know whether there is any possibility of actually getting that law changed or whether it is a race that has run.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u105	Has anyone spoken to them? Yeah, that seems pretty hard to deny. That's exactly what happened. Of course, there has been talk with the Members concerned, precisely to try out whether this is a route that is passable and can be successful. That's been discussed, I'm sure. For me, for the VVD Group, it was important to keep the core of this bill alive, namely to ensure that the costs are not unnecessarily passed on to patients and that we look for it in the bureaucracy. That's secured. A number of things are being addressed and we are confident that this will bring the bill to its conclusion. Do I have certainty? No, that is not possible under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u106	I have another question to ask Mr Zijlstra about the AMvB he just spoke of with warm words as a possibility if the bill were to be rejected again. He refers to Article 126 of the Health Insurance Act. Does he share my view that this is an empty article, which is used in practice for implementing rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u107	With Article 126 you can fill in cases that are not sufficiently clearly defined by the legislator in the first draft of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u108	I asked Mr Zijlstra whether he shares my view that Article 126 is an empty article which is applied to implementing rules. I am thinking, for example, of the formulation of deadlines and the like, in which you can be more precise at a later date. You don't have to pack all that in the law. You can change that later. My question to Mr Zijlstra is also whether the wording of conditions for buying care is included in that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u109	Article 126 of the Health Insurance Act is indeed an article with little definition. I think it covers a rule and a half. It gives the possibility to give further details of the law. Mr Slob asks whether what I say I can arrange fits in there. The answer is yes. We had that checked by the county attorney. What happens then, for example? Mr Samsom has already explained this in detail. I'm trying an abbreviated version. We, as legislators, have failed to regulate what it means to take care of a person with a kinda policy from a healthcare provider who has not been contracted. According to Article 13 of the original bill, you may not reimburse anything. There's a case law that says you'll be reimbursed 70%. They're constantly working on it. We want clarity on this. This AMvB offers space for this. Then the next situation arises. As a health insurance company with which many healthcare providers have a contract offer a policy, as a care customer you have a lot of choice. If you do go to a healthcare provider with whom there is no contract, you can put it well below 70%. If you are in such a budget policy, where you actually have almost no healthcare providers and therefore almost no choice, you may get more than that 70% if you go to a healthcare provider with whom there is no contract. That's a good balance. That is exactly what we want. Those rules, once again, we are not entirely from yesterday's sitting. It indicates, and who am I to doubt, that that is completely safe and sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u110	I hear Mr Zijlstra say that the AMvB can then be used to make the implementation of the law more practical. That's true. You need to create a legal basis on which that AMvB should be founded, especially if you go beyond implementing rules and even set conditions, in this case for care procurement. The situation is that the law that provides this legal basis has been rejected, is it not? That legal base has been knocked away. Then it is very strange to regulate an element of the legislative proposal that is controversial through that article, isn't it? If Mr Zijlstra can explain this to me, please, but I think this is absolutely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u111	In any case, it is a rather hypothetical discussion, because the objections raised in the First Chamber by several political groups are filled in. The amended bill fills in those objections. The operation of Article 13, the operation of the system, shall be ensured. Mr Slob, of course, makes his assessment, but the legislative proposal has become even better than the one that his group has already voted for in the first instance. That's really good. I honestly do not believe at all that we are in an AMvB. You want to keep up your end of the bargain. We have made agreements with the healthcare sector. I want us to ensure that care costs are not passed on unnecessarily to patients. They should not be given a higher risk of their own. They should not be given a smaller package. That's why I'd like to keep this route in mind, if anything goes wrong. But again, that is above all a hypothetical discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u112	I think there's two things mixed up. A bill was finally rejected in the States General, but the cabinet and Mr Zijlstra say: it is actually good. The law has been improved, says Mr Zijlstra. I'm gonna read if that's true. I see a number of commitments that I think are: fine, if that comes into the law, that's fine. Next, Mr Zijlstra says literally: "Do we have the suspicion that the PvdA can deliver? We have that confidence." Okay, but then why do I have to call it a threat from the AMvB, if you say we have the confidence that the PvdA can deliver?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u113	Because I also want to be able to offer confidence and security to the healthcare sector. One of the starting points why we have ever started this whole exercise is to provide security to the healthcare sector. I am now becoming a bit of a gramophone record, but we want care costs, which now remain in the bureaucracy, to be taken out, so that the premium does not have to rise, so that the risk does not have to be increased and the package does not have to be reduced. I am honest that, given the way things are going this week, I want to see that I can do it. That is the basis on which I started this. So that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u114	Mr Zijlstra has just said, quite rightly, and I say this with him: I cannot force senators from any party to sign it. That's what he called the state-law uncomfortable course. Could it not be that those same senators see that threat, as I call it, from the AMvB in the letter as a state-law uncomfortable course, which actually leads the cabinet to call off what it first says: we have the confidence that it does not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u115	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u116	Mr. Chairman. What a circus this week, what a mess, what chaos. What a mess the cabinet has made. What a total lack of direction and control and what a panic we have seen. The Chairman of the First Parliamentary Group of the Labour Party, Mrs Barth, had no control over her own group. Not only does Mr Samsom not have control over himself, but, as we saw this week, neither does his senators. What about the VVD? The VVD had her coalition partner, the Labour Party, clearly not under control. Now it seems that the cabinet also no longer controls the so-called constructive three, D66, Christian Union and SGP. We will hear it like this, but they came from the Tower disgruntled and I just saw all three of them standing at the interrupt microphone. I understand that too, because what must Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij feel? They have always voted constructively since 2013. They voted in favour of the rejected law. Now what? Thanks for the good services. They are then placed and served in the garbage. After all, an AMvB doesn't need a First Chamber anymore if it comes to that. Then there is no need for D66, Christian Union and SGP. For Mr Pechtold it is no longer: and now forward. For him it is: and now out! Signed, Mark Rutte. The Prime Minister also lost control. You'd almost feel sorry for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u117	It's late, we're tired and you might forget something. No direction on your own party? Does Mr Wilders know how many divisions there are in the back of the Chamber? Does he know how many divisions of the PVV there are in The Hague, in Almere and in all those states, when there isn't even a congress, or a member council or a board that can take care of that, and only one is responsible, namely Geert Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u118	Yeah, it's sad. Mr. Pechtold is being paged by the coalition and he's gonna record it before they do. It can't be sadder anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u119	The word "trust" is again mentioned here, but credibility is also something. Credibility. Mr Wilders is going to take everyone's attention here again, while he himself has a whole history of running away when it gets difficult, sending away when it gets difficult, ignoring when it gets difficult. Credibility is also something that Mr Wilders should pay a little attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u120	Credibility is something D66 doesn't have for this cabinet anymore. D66 is one of the three parties that has supported the cabinet in everything since 2013. Mr Rutte now says: 'Good day, take it easy, Mr Pechtold.' Mr Rutte says: we no longer need you because we are going to do it with an AMvB if necessary, so thank you for the good services. Mr Pechtold's credibility is being gibberished by the cabinet. That's the way it is, and that's the way it is. I told you you'd almost feel sorry for the cabinet. But these bastards don't deserve pity. What a disorder, what chaos, what a total lack of authority shows Mr. Rutte. Oh, my God, this is so fucked up. The coalition tried to keep the three dissident PvdA senators inboard, but in the meantime, what happens to those eight senators of the destructive three? Out of the 79 seats the coalition parties received in the elections, 30 are left, according to the latest polls. Four out of five Dutch people no longer see the Rutte II cabinet. I don't think that's ever happened either. No VVD-chooser understands that the Prime Minister, who finally had the opportunity to get rid of the Labour Party, is going through with them. Mr Rutte's constituents will appreciate that. They will appreciate the fact that he will continue to raise taxes, continue to level, allow even more asylum seekers into the country, give even more money to development aid and give billions to Europe. Then the note we just got. The Prime Minister, that's how we remember him, laughs everything away. I can see him doing it again right now. Everything's fine. It's okay. It's okay. We're gonna go on cheerful. Of course it isn't. There has been a huge dent in confidence. The intention to abolish the free choice of doctors remains, of course, de facto normal. The modifications in the letter are messed up in the margins. It's a disgrace. It is a shame that this cabinet wants to arrange through an AMvB if necessary and want to pass through the First Chamber. In North Korea, they can learn from it. Mr Rutte, Prime Minister, please stop. You really have lost all credibility. You're turning our country into a banana republic. You are doing the Netherlands a service by stopping. Because do you know what all Dutch think? Do you know what most people think of your own party? They find: enough taxes raised, enough leveled, enough care taken away, enough elderly people caught, enough billions paid to Brussels, enough asylum seekers allowed in, enough savings on pensions and enough Syrians left untouched. Enough is enough. The Netherlands is sick of this cabinet. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u121	Mr. Chairman. It's been quite a week. The longer we waited, the bigger the chaos got. On these last days of this year, the VVD and the PvdA have created a web of distrust about society and politics. Can you still speak of a democracy if the cabinet deliberately wants to circumvent the First Chamber and silence it? Can you still speak of trust when one coalition party puts an ultimatum to another? Can you still speak of a stable government when the interrelationships are screwed up and put under heavy pressure as senators? In the Senate this week a fundamental consideration was made: the removal of the free choice of doctors is out of the question. It is precisely this principle that is a key element that the cabinet believes should be re-established in the law. However, voting away this bill is the new political reality, a reality which the cabinet apparently does not want to accept. Instead of listening to the people and their representatives, the cabinet tries to settle this with a ruse. A constitutional trickbox is opened to push through a bill that has been voted down at a second time. That's unprecedented. This is behavior that does not belong in a democracy. Perhaps it is quite significant that within the coalition there is so much surprise about the vote against this bill in the First Chamber. Those who listen carefully know that the resistance to more market forces in healthcare and even more power to health insurers is widespread among the population. It can therefore be no surprise that a growing resistance also becomes visible in political relations, here in the Lower House and last week certainly in the Upper Chamber. That only happens when you stand with your back to society. The cabinet and the coalition parties have turned it into quite a mess. The question is rightly where the Prime Minister was and where his direction was. Did the Prime Minister agree with the choice that a guarantee has been given to senators and that it has been demanded from them? The people's confidence in this cabinet was already dramatically low and this will certainly not do it any good. How does the Prime Minister intend to restore confidence? It has to be said: while the cabinet and the coalition parties are fighting in backrooms for three days, the people are doing very different things. Today, 2,000 people in home care have heard that they have lost their jobs. People are working on the rents, which have risen enormously. The WW has been shortened, while hundreds of thousands of Dutch people need it so badly right now. Care premiums and own risks have become priceless for more and more people. Today, the growing numbers of people in poverty have been added. The cabinet has once again been concerned only with its own survival, while these people are only really having a Christmas crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u122	Mr. Chairman. A complete surprise last Tuesday: three PvdA senators voted against a law of Minister Schippers and thus surprised enemy and friend. Now we're over 50 hours away. What did we see? A coalition looking for solutions to limit the damage. Talking, negotiating. That gave us three days of uncertainty, but now there's a letter. This morning we got some clarity about the personal budget. Thank you for that. For my group, the first priority was always to get clarity and certainty for all those people with a pgb. I am glad that clarity has been given in this letter. And now for tonight's letter. The rights of insured persons are strengthened. I believe that commitments have already been made in the First Chamber, but they are now regulated. That is what my group welcomes. I have two more important questions. The cabinet talks about "safeguarding the existing free choice of doctors for everyone, regardless of the nature of the policy." The wording chosen may give rise to misunderstandings. I ask the cabinet what exactly is meant by this. For my group, the following sentence is also crucial: "If the amended legislative proposal is not adopted, the cabinet will consult your Chamber to see how the main lines of agreement can be implemented." Do I read in this that if the legislative proposal does not have a majority in the Second and First Chambers, the cabinet with a General Measure of Government still implements the core of the bill and thus passes through the parliament or at least one of the two Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u123	We have heard Mr Zijlstra say earlier that it probably does not have to come this far, because he assumes that the law will reach a majority. That also brings me to Mr Pechtold's question: what was discussed when you were sitting in the Tower with his fives? Has Mr Zijlstra had the impression that D66 would vote in favour of bringing the law back to both chambers in this way, as finally stated in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u124	I've been updated three times in the last few days. That was mostly procedural until tonight. I am now reading with Mr Buma "that's what I have to follow up on "commitments," which have been expressed in a number of indents on page 2. I have found that most of them have been exchanged in the First Chamber and that the cabinet has used them to strengthen the law to improve it. That is what my group agrees with the cabinet. We must now, of course, look at the legal texts that result from this. My group will then assess the content here, but it will also look at the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u125	Anyway, we hear between the lines by "I understand that the procedure will also be looked at "that D66 continues with the aid on content." Which brings me to the following. After the terrible chaos of the past week and two parties fighting each other out of the tent, is there anything to support D66 at all? Isn't it just something that's bothering you instead of helping you out?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u126	Well, it may be surprising that I have to tell a representative of Christian democracy, but for D66 it is very important that, if you conclude agreements because of the content and because of your electoral program, you try to make it a success. We did that in the first round, because we were not satisfied with the original cabinet plans. They've been adapted to large parts. Cases have been changed both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. If it now turns out that the PvdA senators who voted against first are satisfied with anchoring in the law the commitments made in that process, then there is no reason for my Lower House Group to suddenly re-assess that content.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u127	Then my final conclusion is only getting stronger, namely that Mr Samsom has an incredibly good week despite the internal problems, because there are now five parties who have been supporting the improvements he has brought in by voting against the three senators. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u128	I say to Mr Van Haersma Buma: let us read together what is ultimately in those legal texts. In my view, these are matters which have increased the confusion surrounding the legislative proposal that I have noticed in recent times. In particular, I refer to the almost magical concept of 'free choice of doctors'. I remember when the summer was called: you won't be able to choose your own GP?; Bullshit! Many things have rightly been improved in this process. If, instead of a commitment or a motion adopted unanimously in the First Chamber, that can be enshrined in the text of the law, then I think that is an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u129	Mr Pechtold rightly referred to an important passage in the letter. He was of course given an explanation in the Tower, but no one was there, so it is right that he should ask for an explanation here again. In fact, Mr Pechtold asks the question: should the law be re-voted in the First Chamber, are we going to settle it through an AMvB? Let me just say it in my own words. A colleague of Mr Pechtold, Mr Thom de Graaf, said this evening: that is democracy, which is governed by government decree. Does Mr Pechtold share his colleague's remarks?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u130	That was my party colleague's reaction to Mr Zijlstra's somewhat bold statement: to the left or to the right, we are going to settle it. Mr De Graaf said at that time: left or right, okay, but not through the bottom of democracy and state law. That is why I have been asked a number of critical questions and I have said that this has to be taken into account, because the senators are of course looking not only at the content, but also at the process. I think Mr De Graaf's statement was the result of the announcement that has already been made: if you do not agree, you may be out of the loop.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u131	It wasn't just the senator from D66 who disagreed. Mr Pechtold said when he came out, I quote again freely that he did not conclude an agreement. I assume he was referring in particular to this section. I can imagine that this is unacceptable for D66, but what conclusions will Mr Pechtholt draw? What does it mean, in practice, that the cabinet is putting this threat in the letter? Isn't that contrary to what D66 stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u132	Quite rightly, Mr Roemer. He sums up the fact that I did not agree with what I heard, after being informed for the third time. When I came out, I also said that the cabinet would be free to come forward with a letter in this debate and finally with a new legislative proposal. I'll review the bill later. I can judge the letter now. I am asking the question that has already been asked by Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u133	Is it unacceptable for Mr Pechtold that the cabinet should come up with threats of this kind, contrary to Mr Pechtold's view of state law? Does this have any consequences? Or is Mr Pechtold just going to be a little angry here, but then his anger disappears like snow before the sun and does this have no consequence whatsoever? In that case, the cabinet can indeed continue in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u134	Threats I generally do not answer with threats, but with urgent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u135	What the hell kind of silly game is this? I would like to say something to Mr Pechtold. If that option of an AMvB stays over the market if the bill fails in the First Chamber, is that a reason to vote against that bill or is it boiler music about the AMvB, when he just votes for the bill and doesn't get that AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u136	We will assess the content of the bill, which is not yet before us. That seems to me to be a good reason. I have indicated that I am clear about the criticism I made when I was just updated. I'm asking the same critical questions right now. That is the democratic process that I am used to concluding with a cabinet with which I have been doing business from the opposition for two years now. In general, we listen carefully to each other and look at how we can regulate it in terms of content and procedure. That's the stage we're in right now. Mr Wilders will have to settle for that, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u137	With all due respect, that's a very long and procedural answer. I ask Mr Pechtold once again to confess colour. Is it true that the procedure can influence its content? If the cabinet would tell Mr. Pechtold that the route will be kept open to do it, if the bill doesn't make it in the First Chamber, on its North Korean via an AMvB? Is he gonna say he hates that, but he's gonna vote for the bill anyway, if that's okay? Or does he say that he thinks this is very important, that his criticism is not cauldron music, that he then votes against the bill or that this at least affects his opinion of the bill? Surely he can shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u138	Together with Mr Wilders, I was able to take the letter, the contents chosen by the cabinet and the strategy for a short time. I have been clearer than at any time about how I feel about the content and the possible procedure to be followed. I also hear Mr Zijlstra say tonight that he is confident that the PvdA will deliver, in his words. That would mean that the royal road would be followed for the second time. That's a little less courteous, but if a bill is improved, I think it can be defended. It happens. Then I would like to look forward to that treatment in both chambers of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u139	If I understand correctly, Mr Pechtold is in favour of restricting the free choice of doctors as was stated in the original article of the law that was now lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u140	We voted in favour of this in the Second Chamber and in the First Chamber, with all the nuances that Mrs Van Tongeren knows in asking what free choice of doctors means.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u141	Then we hear from Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra that the letter received by the Chamber contains substantial adjustments and improvements. It's really changed, so there's just a little less free choice of doctors, as I'd like to sum up. Isn't that a great disappointment for Mr Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u142	My colleague Bergkamp and I have been to the Ministry for the summer, as you have seen, and we, as MPs, have improved the original cabinet proposal. I also praised Minister Schippers for that. In particular, the system has been clarified. That happened again in the trial of the First Chamber. The Minister was prepared to make a number of commitments and to embrace a motion which was adopted unanimously. These are improvements that my group has fought for. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has also assumed part of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u143	Then that whole piece of work that several people have worked on has been voted off in the Upper House. I would like to know from Mr Pechtold whether what is in the letter is about the same, or whether there really is a substantial change, thus extending the possibility of a free choice of doctors. It's either one or the other. Either it's about the same thing again or it's really quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u144	I don't have a legal text in front of me, but a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u145	I asked for an appreciation of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u146	I don't have a legal text in front of me. I have a letter. In this I read all of the points that have been agreed in the debate in the First Chamber or that have been adopted by the vote on a motion. For me, it doesn't really matter whether that's the end of it or whether it's in a future legal text. It could be an extra insurance policy. I've been wondering over the last few days how people at home are looking at this. Hasn't politics done itself a bad service again? Why did this take so long? I'm not much of a sports expert, but I had an image of a rugby game. You know that: two teams pushing against each other in rows while the ball is still in the middle. In recent years, my group has always signed agreements with this cabinet in terms of content, because of the stability of the country and because of the conviction that no one is waiting for another election. Of course, we attach great importance to reducing the cost of care and a cheaper policy. However, voting away a law is not a state of emergency. It is no reason not to continue to achieve sensible goals on its own by parliamentary means. The cabinet can always do business with me, but within the rules of democracy. That is why I await with great interest the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u147	I would like to hear from Mr Pechtold what he thinks about the pressure that governments put on senators to give a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u148	In my opinion, you can never ask for a guarantee from parliamentarians, if only because all parliamentarians have been elected without burden. Of course, political parties are trying to get as much certainty as possible about voting behaviour. My party in the Purple Cabinet has sometimes insisted on this. Let me speak for myself. In the period in which I tried with the cabinet to realize what I am for, I never asked the senators of D66 for a signature. I've never put pressure on them, but I've managed to convince them from our election program and the assignment we've been given by our constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u149	That seems to me to be the only way forward. You have been invited three times to a procedural meeting. Did you take this opportunity to point out to the Minister that it is very undemocratic to do so? Have you contributed to the Minister's knee-deepness, or have you not done so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u150	As an opposition party, when you speak to the cabinet, you choose your points. Mr Roemer and I both recognize this. I want to keep that role clean. Mr Roemer sometimes tries to turn it into a black and white image, but I choose the content. I come to the procedure when it concerns myself. I'm staying out of a procedure involving PvdA senators. When it comes to a procedure in which I am involved, I will ask for or send out signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u151	So if your senators in the First Chamber aren't involved in the bill because it's going through a trick box, you're really gonna scaffold?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u152	I have just heard a number of times from the coalition groups, and I am so glad to hear it from the cabinet that they are confident that they can convince the senators. Mr Zijlstra mentioned delivery, but as far as I'm concerned, you're not delivering senators. If I said that, I'd get into a fight with the mines, but they're gonna be okay with that fight. And yeah, that's gonna be exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u153	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing Bram from Ojik tonight. He's absent because of private circumstances. Over the last few days, we've seen the chaos and confusion increase after an unexpected industrial accident. The direction was missing. People didn't communicate or communicate much too late. There were unnecessary risks taken. In the meantime, patches have been taped, but the bruises are clearly visible. I must say it was an embarrassing performance, with a steerless PvdA party leader and an absent prime minister. Three senators stood up for their principles, but now they may have been spawned with some Christmas presents. If they do not, then the new form follows: the Rutte-AMvB. This was the crisis you knew would come, so to speak. We are dealing with a cabinet that sends legislative proposals to the Chamber that even its own parliamentarians do not believe in. A cabinet like this is gonna stumble sooner or later. The too fast and ill-thought-out start continues to haunt the cabinet. There is no common vision. There is no common idea for the Netherlands. There's no majority in the Upper House. That's why this cabinet is leaning from incident to incident, from agreement to agreement. I ask the Prime Minister: how much longer can this go on? How is he going to restore trust between the coalition parties? Will the rest of the coalition agreement, I ask him, be implemented by AMvB? The free choice of doctors is a foundation of our healthcare system. The deletion of that choice leads to a division in the care. People with sufficient income have the freedom to choose their doctor, but people with little money do not have that freedom. That is why my group fundamentally disagrees with the amendment of Article 13. The three senators also had problems with this, but it may not be the case anymore. With the we-paste-a-spot agreement concluded today, that objection of principle from the three senators, and from my group, has not been removed. The first central point is beautiful. The letter states on the second page that the existing free choice of doctors is guaranteed regardless of the policy that someone has. However, I read in the letter that this only applies to acute care and care in cases where the insured person was not sufficiently informed of the consequences of the procurement policy. In other words, for all other forms of care, the planned care, which is in the small print on the health insurance provider's website, the free choice of doctors is not guaranteed at all. I want to know from the Prime Minister if that's true. What does the point of the agreement mean to ensure that no measures are needed in the context of package reduction or increased risk? I read this as a threat to both chambers: agree or we will restrict the package. Am I reading that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u154	I was listening. Since Mrs Van Tongeren asked some questions about state law and so on during my contribution, I would also like to ask her something. I noticed that Mrs Van Tongeren said a few times in her speech that she and the Green Left senators find something. I suppose that doesn't mean that what's found here in the Lower House is automatically found in the Upper House, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u155	I would advise Mr Zijlstra to read back the Acts, because the word'senators' does not appear in my entire text. I didn't put that in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u156	But you did talk about the First Parliamentary Group. I think that's about the same thing, but I understand that this was a small slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u157	I did not hear a question from Mr Zijlstra, so I shall continue with my speech. What does the point of the agreement mean to ensure that no measures are needed in the context of package reduction or increase one's own risk? I read this as a threat to both chambers: agree or we will restrict the package. Am I reading that right? A coalition partner who claims to have faith, yet builds a guarantee, is that the trust on which this Prime Minister likes to build? We've witnessed an industrial accident in the last few days. As a politician, you can learn a lot from industrial accidents. I see that I have the Prime Minister's attention for the first time, but only if you wonder what you'd do next time. My group would like to know from the Prime Minister how he looks back on his own actions last week and what he might do differently next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u158	Mr. Chairman. I have a tip for groups who have a Christmas dinner with each other in the last week of the session. Do it on Monday night! That's what we did. That last meeting week is always hecticer than you think. Honestly, this time I thought: it's not going to work, it's going to be a very quiet meeting week. That also turned out differently, with Tuesday's unexpected rejection of the bill. However, I could not have thought in my wildest dreams that we would have had a debate in the middle of the night on Thursday night, which actually focused on what would happen if a new bill were not to reach the finish line. We've already changed a lot. We don't have to pick up what's passed this week. A lot of ambiguity has arisen from the rejection of the bill. The SGP Group is also very pleased that this ambiguity has been removed for people who depend on and rely on a personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act. That was an important part of that rejected law. The question naturally arose: how does it proceed, now that the law in the First Chamber has been rejected? The cabinet indicated in a letter early this morning that it would continue in the same way as if the law had been passed. An important question arising from the rejection of the law was also: what does it mean if it does not achieve the cost savings that were intended to control the costs of care? This was done through the rejected law and also through the button of strengthening the efficiency of care costs. That's exactly what the spotlight had to be on. The SGP Group is concerned about this. Doesn't that mean you have to increase the premium or your own risk? That's another button you can turn. Or does that mean that the package is going to be undressed? That's an alternative. The cabinet has provided clarity and said: no, we do not want to go in this direction; we want to continue on the route of saving through efficiency, through the possibilities of purchasing more selectively. We support that approach. We welcome the fact that in the letter the cabinet chooses the royal route of tabling an amended bill, which takes into account the objections expressed in Parliament, which have been expressed in the First Chamber. It is important that the freedom of choice for patients is well secured. Of course, a great deal has already been done about this in the context of the legislative proposal in the House of Representatives in June. There have been intensive discussions about it. Can I assume that all the safeguards contained in the rejected bill by way of amendment are fully reflected in the new bill? I would like to mention, among other things, the point that we have made ourselves very strong: the obligation for health insurers to pay attention to the need for identity-related care. I regret, however, that the discussion is now focusing on the question of what happens if the new legislative proposal does not reach the final stage. That just happened in all kinds of interrupting debates. I would like to express my confidence that the examination of the amended legislative proposal can be successfully completed. If that route is followed properly and additional safeguards are added if the position of insured persons is to be strengthened, then this should be a promising route. Then why does the letter anticipate this situation with the phrase: "Should the amended legislative proposal not be adopted...?" If the cabinet here is committed to the parliamentary road, I would say: if there are bumps on that road, it is important to see how these bumps can be removed on that road. Finally, if a legislative proposal comes up for a second time with adjustments, that is something very special. We normally only see it in constitutional changes that such a high degree of parliamentary scrutiny is being followed. I would like to take advantage of the unfortunate situation in which this has happened. I would like to take up the challenge, or the new, improved legislative proposal cannot support more parties in the Chamber. I think there are still opportunities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u159	Mr Roemer has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u160	That is kind, that Mr. Roemer immediately grabs that glove and wants to think about how...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u161	I'll tell you what glove I pick up myself. However, I was concerned about your justified comment about whether or not to use an AMvB, a General Measure of Management. I do this because, at the time, when the Health Insurance Act was being dealt with, if I am not mistaken, it was that in 2004-2005 the SGP Group explicitly asked in the First Chamber whether that Article 126 did not open the possibility that was actually set out in this letter. At the time, the cabinet said that this was not the issue and that it did not give a carte blanche before that. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that the road in the letter should not only be considered undesirable, but also impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u162	First of all, I would like to say, with care, that the word AMvB does not appear in the letter. It says: If the amended bill is not adopted, the cabinet will consult with your Chamber to see how it can be implemented... There's nothing wrong with that in itself, except that I don't think it's wise to anticipate that. But we have heard from the PvdA and the VVD groups that the possibility of an AMvB is kept open. My pressing appeal is not to do that. I would certainly come back to the legal treatment at that time. I would also refer to the explanatory statement by then Minister Hoogervorst, which contains the general coat rack article; a provision which sees unforeseen circumstances as a way of laying down implementing rules. However, this is of a different order. When I also look at the development of the Council of State to look very critically at general provisions that create delegation opportunities and which say that they must be precise and concretely limited, this is not the issue here. It is not sufficiently precise and concrete to be able to form a coat rack for important provisions such as those at issue in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u163	That's obvious. I am glad Mr Van der Staaij says that. In my opinion, however, the cabinet is also very clear in stating explicitly that this is indeed a possibility, should the First Chamber vote on the bill for the second time. Does this cabinet approach have any consequences for the SGP? Does the SGP want to play harder to prevent the cabinet from making use of this possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u164	I see it's not in the letter. I still need to hear the cabinet. Clearly, my urgent appeal is not to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u165	Mr. Chairman. My group was pleased when the bill that drastically reduces the choice of doctors died in the First Chamber. I was happy, because it's unheard of that the right to choose your own doctor, a health care professional or a health care institution is being removed unless you can afford it. A division between people who can afford it and people who can't, would have become a fact. The Dutch People's Party for Animals voted against the bill both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. The guiding principles for this voting behaviour are our party principles: compassion, sustainability, personal freedom and personal responsibility. The PvdA has twisted itself into the strangest corners to align its support for the bill with its election slogan "Stop market forces in healthcare." PvdA senators who wanted to adhere to their own party principles are now accused of not acting as uncritical performers of a care agreement. Such an attitude of the cabinet over the last few days towards the representatives of the people is a mistake. It was to be expected. The Labour Party and the VVD chose to react together, knowing that they are ideologically diametrically opposed. The desire to sit on the plush is greater than the desire to hold on to the starting points of the party and to govern only with parties who are closer to the political colour in principle. This cabinet and a synergy of water and fire had to come at all costs, while it was also known that it could not count on a majority in the First Chamber. It was evidently in the country's interest to form such an ideological and democratically unstable cabinet. Because of the lack of vision, the cabinet shows decisiveness in sliding forwards and shearing off. Difficult issues around care, education, agriculture and nature are thrown over the fence towards provinces and municipalities. And politically sensitive issues are not dealt with in parliament but are dealt with in backrooms by General Management Measures. In order to remain on the plush, the cabinet is even willing to sideline the parliament, and the First Chamber in particular. If the new bill is rejected again in the Senate, the cabinet will press the restriction of the free choice of doctors through an AMvB. The agreements with health insurers are therefore above democratic legitimacy for restricting such an important patient's right. Unheard! Hundreds of thousands of people who depend on care are no longer sure. In health care, people are no longer central but the account. Mantelzorg is the new mantra in the participatory society desired by the cabinet. But the coalition parties are not even prepared to secure the caregivers in the context of the crisis they themselves have caused with an emergency law regulating non-professional care rates. We're dealing with a cabinet that has to jump from one ice shot to another to avoid getting a wet suit. It is not surprising that two thirds of voters do not have confidence in this cabinet. What we need to learn from this is that politics is much more than managing and making decisions. Politics is about credibility, ideals and vision. That's what's missing. We now know how this participatory policy works with occasional agreements. It has only one purpose: to buy time, to hope for better times and to hide together in the meantime, despite a lack of political sense. Voters have no confidence in opportunistic politics. Next year there will be at least two elections, so that not only politicians can express their opinion on what is in the country's interest, but also the voters. In this context, you will not be surprised that I also believe that the bio-industry should be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u166	Mr. Chairman. If you looked at the cabinet in the past few months, you might have seen the Christmas crisis of the past week coming. Look at the glittering around the car tax, the scabbling about whether or not to drill for shale gas, the stuff about the tax administration's post-tax and the postponement of tax reforms. It's concrete rot, which you don't see until the building starts crumbling. Then it's too late. That's exactly what we've seen for the past two days. The big question is what the Dutch think of this. They are on the eve of major changes in health care and social security. What the cabinet should be doing is guiding that huge transition. But it's been mostly self-involved over the past week. Maybe that's the biggest drama this week. The whole of the Netherlands longs for clarity from The Hague but gets a Christmas circus from The Hague. For three days, Prime Minister Mark Rutte was merely spreading questions from the Tower and meanwhile, Vice Prime Minister Lodewijk Asscher, who was also present here, was constantly bringing in the answers. He tried to keep things between the PvdA and the VVD together. At that time, a Prime Minister who has come so far has lost control very much. How is it possible that barely two years ago Mark Rutte and Diederik Samsom solemnly promised each other to do things differently? Now trust each other, the fair story, stability until 2017; but even Mark Rutte has not kept that promise. His cabinet's still there, but that's all there is to it. In substance, the crisis of the past week has not brought about anything in the Netherlands either. In his letter, the Prime Minister writes that he trusts that with a few changes the law will now reach the finish line. But the three PvdA senators who said no can proudly and proudly maintain that they have not made any promises. In fact, they've won the winnings. That is also what Mr Samsom has sold loud, clear and triumphantly here. The law has moved in its direction and the chance that the senators will vote for it is still no more than the confidence that this will happen. What exactly is the Prime Minister's confidence based on? What's happened in those rooms over the past three days that he's so clearly confident now? This was not only expressed by the two coalition parties but also by the three tolerated parties. They are still hiding behind the procedure of an AMvB, which we now know will never come. Mr Zijlstra spoke about an opinion from the national attorney. It might be good to have that to settle the discussion. Can we get that advice from the Chamber for the second term? If not, will the Prime Minister promise to send that to the Chamber as soon as possible? Meanwhile, the content of the law is still standing: limiting the free choice of doctors. That choice was rejected by the CDA in the First and in the Second Chamber. In substance, the crisis offered an opportunity for the CDA, namely that free choice of doctors would come back after all. However, that hope is small. The changes in the letter do not make the main line disappear. The free choice of doctors is still limited. In the end, the crisis has only resulted in losers. First of all, Prime Minister Rutte and his crumbling cabinet, then the constructive three, who still sputter a little but again clearly state that they will also support this new proposal, but especially the Dutch who have seen an incomprehensible fight for three days, while ultimately nothing changes. Happy among the coalition parties, but they are also the only ones. The Netherlands has no use for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u167	Although I do find a slight hint in Mr Buma's contribution, the amended bill that will be sent to the Chamber has also changed matters with the support of the CDA Group in the Upper House. I would like to draw attention to the motion adopted unanimously. Is that going to give the CDA group in the House of Representatives a chance to look at the new bill with a more constructive look?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u168	That is a fair question from Mr Zijlstra. We have looked constructively at the law with the objections we had in the Lower House. In order to respond to our concerns, we have tabled a number of amendments. If the law is again before us, we will table these amendments again. Then the same will apply as the first time. Our spokesperson said very clearly at that time, Mrs Bruins-Slot, that the Minister also said that these amendments are decisive for us to vote in favour of the law. In the same way, we will deal with the bill again in the House of Representatives. Then comes the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u169	That's clear. I have to admit that at this time I cannot remember the precise content of the amendments, but the CDA's electoral programme is a little more rooted in my memory. It states that health insurers should be given the opportunity not to pay compensation to contractors who take care of a non-contracted healthcare provider. These are patients who go to a non-contracted healthcare provider. It's literally there: no fee. That's exactly what happens to the amended bill. Again, I do not know exactly those earlier amendments, but I assume that the CDA's electoral programme is still leading. Can Mr Van Haersma Buma confirm the latter? Can he indicate that, in view of the amended proposal, it will lead to a more constructive attitude? Or is the CDA's responsibility vacation going to take a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u170	In the quotes I always hear about the election programme, which I myself know, those who quote always forget the second sentence: the free choice of doctors must be maintained as much as possible. Look it up on your iPad. Then you'll have to take a closer look. You'll see it in that chapter. In line with this, the CDA amendment has also been tabled. That is why I believe that the amendment was not an impossible amendment at all. The CDA doesn't say no to the healthcare reforms either. You're quite right to expect that from the CDA. But we do have a line that is based on the election program. If the amendment brings about an amendment to the law, then we will have our profits and we will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u171	I think that is a very positive development. In doing so, Mr Buma indicated that the adjustments made by the CDA Group in the First Chamber and the improvements that have now been made in the legislative proposal go exactly that way. I welcome that constructive attitude. I cannot, of course, ask for a guarantee that you will vote for it later. I won't. But from the words you have just said, I read out a very constructive attitude, given that you have actually been served on the wishes you have just expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u172	It doesn't make much sense to start playing a game, like: don't support it or support it. It is true that for us a number of amendments determine a yes to the law. I have to admit that it goes well beyond what is stated in this letter. Well, that doesn't mean we're here. But if, in the second round of the discussion, it turns out that the Cabinet is committed to the support of the CDA and sees that these amendments can indeed be carried out because, in our opinion, they can simply be carried out and then adopted, then you can expect the CDA to support such a law. That's the way it's gonna be, I hope. In the end, the profits would still be in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u173	Madam President. This week we are in a special situation. That situation arose Tuesday afternoon after a law was rejected in the First Chamber by the opposition of MPs of a coalition party. I say to you in all honesty: we were overwhelmed by that situation. But in our system of state, every Member of Parliament, whether a Member of Parliament or a Member of Parliament, has the right to make a decision without burden in the event of a vote. That's a very good right. I am not saying that as an encouragement towards the members of my own group. The rejection of the law in the Upper Chamber did create a new political situation. We have seen in recent days that the cabinet and the coalition have had their hands full with that. It finally resulted in the letter we received this evening. We have seen that the cabinet has made a choice in this situation. The cabinet has chosen to come back with an amended law or at least expressed its intention to do so. When we read the letter, we see that an important part of the proposed amendments to the rejected law and the new law to be submitted is the legal anchoring of Mr Kuiper's motion from the Christian Union. I am referring to the motion that was unanimously adopted in the First Chamber last Tuesday. The motion makes it very clear that the influence of insured persons should be strengthened vis-à-vis insurers and that insured persons should, for example, have an influence on the purchase of care from their insurers. We consider that to be a profit. I believe that this is an important part of the cabinet's response to many criticisms of the legislative proposal. Many felt that the balance between the influence of insured persons and the position of insurers was insufficient. It is not very common, if a bill is rejected in the First Chamber, to come forward with an announcement of a new bill so soon. On the other hand, it's allowed. A new bill also means that the debate can be resumed in Parliament, on the basis of beliefs and arguments, as happened with the rejected bill, both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. What is very unusual in the letter is that the cabinet is already speculating on the situation that the bill is being rejected again. I find that strange and I ask the cabinet to go into that. Perhaps it is not as strange as we know the current political situation in our country. If the bill is rejected again, in the way it happened this week, it is a political fact that we cannot simply ignore. My group understands that the cabinet is concerned about how to proceed with the implementation of the healthcare agreement when the bill has been rejected. The healthcare agreement is primarily intended to control the ever-increasing costs of care. That is a task for which we are all responsible, no matter what position we are in. We also understand that, in such a situation, the cabinet wants to talk to Parliament. Let me be clear about the attitude of the Christian Union Group in the House of Representatives. We are prepared, if a new bill comes, to look at it with an open mind. We don't know the bill yet; just the announcement. But we will look at it with an open mind. We are also always prepared to talk about controlling healthcare costs, but my group does not want to cooperate with a law containing an AMvB package leaflet in situations where the bill is rejected. My group notes, however, that at least the coalition parties in the Chamber keep that possibility open. Through you, President, I ask the Prime Minister whether this is also the case in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u174	That sounds very clear. Do I understand correctly that Mr Slob says that, at the moment when the possibility of an AMvB is linked to that law as an option, he would not be able to support that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u175	I have heard Mr Wilders give worse summaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u177	Mr. Chairman. A bright spot; that's nice in this dark Christmas time. It is a glimmer of light that, despite all the urge and compulsion on MPs to be pressed into a straitjacket, three PvdA senators have shown independence. Chapeau: votes without burden. That is the liberal way to counter erosion of our parliamentary agreement democracy. It is a bright spot, because now there is also a binding perspective on an even better law. Thanks to the three PvdA senators who voted against Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u178	Mr. Chairman. This coalition of VVD and PvdA is a blatantly embarrassing display. No wonder a lot of people have completely lost faith in politics. The cheese clover in The Hague is miles away from the ordinary citizen. It's a charade, a circus. This political crisis has not been overcome. It is unclear whether the constructive opposition parties and the dissident senators will agree. The letter from the cabinet is meaningless and a state-law monstrosity. The agreement between VVD and PvdA will be merely a postponement of execution. The question is not whether this cabinet falls, the question is only when. The letters PvdA represent Party of the Amateurs, because who makes it up to place sitting senators not or low on a candidate list just before such a crucial vote. The Netherlands is looking for low taxes, more security, less immigration and excellent care. The Netherlands would be better off without Rutte II.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u179	Mr. Chairman. Our democracy is under pressure. Senators get pressured and the government does what it wants. Over the past three days, we have been kept informed through the media of what has happened. That was supposed to happen here. This can't be happening, of course. Have the senators at the Ministry of SZW been pressured by Deputy Prime Minister Asscher? What do you think of that? Can we do that under state law? Can we do that under state law? Senators were called there to reconsider their decision. The Duivesteijn residence was visited by Minister Asscher with a service car. Purpose: press, press and press again. Fortunately, senators don't lend themselves to this kind of North Korean situation. Consultations were held at the Tower, at General Affairs, but not at the place where this debate belongs: here, in the heart of democracy. This is where the debate should have taken place and not in the back rooms. Democracy means accepting a decision when it doesn't suit the government. The task of the First Chamber is to assess a legislative proposal on legality, feasibility and enforcement. The First Chamber has made a decision. The government should respect and accept this. By putting pressure on senators, you can't rule. What more can we expect from this government? That senators are also put under pressure when they disagree with the loan system in higher education? Will Minister Asscher's service car be re-used to put pressure on a critical senator? Do we have to wait for days again? Does Mr Roemer have to apply for an arrangement ten times so that we can finally have a debate here at the heart of democracy? I'd like to conclude with a call to all senators. Now, but also for the future. Don't let our democracy get under pressure and keep your back straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u180	Mr. Chairman. May I express my thanks to the cabinet through you? It's always a problem to come up with a nice stunt when starting an election campaign. At 50PLUS we already had several designs ready, but the cabinet has outdone us in the last few days. It has now become very clear in the Netherlands that on 18 March we are going to vote again for the Provincial States and therefore indirectly for the Upper House. Too bad the cabinet did not seize this opportunity to reserve that date for the new Parliamentary elections. However, it will also be so clear what the consequences will be of the fact that we are dealing here with two parties that each have a supporter who hates to a large extent the supporters of the other party. It's about parties who don't trust each other. This is evident from the fact that the last few days have taken many hours to get out. As a result, it became clear to everyone that the mutual trust of the two parties has not improved. Or can the Prime Minister state with his hands on his heart that the Labour Party and the VVD are each other's natural partners and that mutual trust has not suffered? I would like a clear answer to that question. Unlike the front page of this morning's Volkskrant, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Health. It is an achievement how it has brought the opposite Party of Labour to its knees. In the letter we read that the substance of the proposal is preserved. With that, she pushes the critical senators with their noses on the ground. All of this is putting Parliament out of play. That has not been shown before in the Netherlands in this way, as I know. The Netherlands has no rule decree. Moreover, it is clear that the limits of austerity and further austerity of care have now been reached. Until here and no further, the clear message of the First Chamber was clear. 50PLUS has already pointed out that this limit would be reached. However, I still have several questions. What guarantees are there now? Are all opposition parties also in agreement? What if, unexpectedly, one of the three senators of the Labour Party were to fail? It may be that in the course of the examination of the bill in the First Chamber, not the current three critical MPs will vote, but that there has been an interim replacement, for whatever reason. This also applies to the other members of the Labour Party's group in the Upper Chamber. Do we still have a reasonable guarantee from those successors? Furthermore, the three senators of the Labour Party have pointed out that they cannot commit themselves definitively because they must determine their vote after the debate in the First Chamber. Otherwise, the entire debate in the Senate would be superfluous in advance. Does the Prime Minister recognise that this space must be there and that for this reason it is not a guarantee that the three senators of the Labour Party, whatever happens and what is being discussed, should vote for it as blind horses? Finally, on the basis of my statements, does the Prime Minister recognize that there is no certainty that the Labour Party Group will vote unanimously in the First Chamber for the proposal? I'm curious to hear the answers. I wish the members of the cabinet good holidays, despite everything. And I wish everyone in the Netherlands a better 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u181	This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u182	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Schippers will answer a number of questions about the free choice of doctors, Mr Van der Staaij's question about guarantees and a single question about pgb. It will also address the question of the risk of increasing the own risk or the premium in the event of certain circumstances. Mr Asscher will not answer any questions, because they have not been put to him. I will say a few things myself about the process and how to proceed. First of all, I would like to endorse the words of Kees van der Staaij of the SGP. He talked about the need for a broader consensus, the possibility even of a broader consensus here in the Chamber. I believe that we now have a chance to re-table the legislative proposal with the changes that are taking place, which incorporates the discussions that have taken place here, the discussions that have taken place in the First Chamber and Mr Kuiper's motion that has been adopted. I believe that this is indeed an opportunity to seek a broader basis for support with each other than there has been so far for the legislative proposal, and that would be a good thing in itself. That is also a real ambition of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u183	I can imagine that the Prime Minister would like to start with the way he wants to solve the problem, but it would be much more apt to give him an explanation of how he experienced the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u184	When I get that question at my press conference on Friday, I always say: it's my job to run the country with my colleagues and make sure that we make this beautiful country stronger, and I'm not much of a reflection of the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u185	Then the Prime Minister will have to do so soon, because it was, of course, a great chaos. It may just be that a bill dies in the First Chamber. This often happens in a democracy. Normally, the cabinet then takes the bill back and it is going to think about how it will do that. Now there's been a huge fight. There's been enormous chaos. Things have happened over and over again, like ministers who had to do all kinds of things in senators' homes. Pressure has been put on, threats have been made, intimidated and so on. Then you can't get away with, "I don't reflect"?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u186	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u187	The Prime Minister can make a joke of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u188	Seriously, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u189	It's all serious, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u190	Mr Roemer, I had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u191	I was just talking right now. He was done answering his question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u192	Let us first listen to Mr Roemer. Then I'll give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u193	I was really counting on the Prime Minister to say honestly what he thought of the week. If he doesn't get beyond "I don't reflect" and "it's none of my business," then he's hardly worth sitting in the cabinet for this. Then let me put it so loudly. Everything has happened: a minister waving her wallet, senators being told to sign by the cross beforehand, cabinet members putting pressure on senators at home and coalition parties putting an ultimatum on each other. This is the stable cabinet the Prime Minister claims to represent, at least two years ago. Then here say, "I'm not responding to anything, I'm just smiling it away," that's really not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u194	What happened, we've all been able to see. Mr Roemer, too. That is indeed that an important bill in the First Chamber was not supported. It is not just a legislative proposal that does not support it, it can indeed happen, but a bill that is of great importance for the further completion of our whole healthcare system and for preventing further cost increases in the future that are unnecessary and which, if we do not manage to control them with each other, will lead to an increase in premiums or, for example, their own risk. It is so important that this has been a reason for the coalition parties to discuss with each other how they would solve this problem. It'll take time. It's complicated. We've taken 48 hours for that for the last two days. We've taken almost literally the full 48 hours for that. That's where we ended up. This is also part of a coalition, that you sometimes encounter a problem. Then it's important that you solve that problem. It won't always be possible. There are coalitions that fall, too. As I said in my statement at the beginning of this debate, our ambition was to get out of here. It worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u195	Mr. Roemer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u196	Mr President, I will come back to this in a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u197	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u198	This is a meaningless answer. It's looking away from what happened. The whole of the Netherlands has seen this chaos and has seen that the Prime Minister apparently lost control of the whole circus, and then we get such an answer. That is, in fact, too scandalous for words. Let me take out two elements. 1. What is the Prime Minister's explanation and what has he done to prevent the Minister of Health from actually waving her wallet? 2. Does the Prime Minister think it's a choice that regiments ask senators to give advance guarantees to vote for a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u199	I think it is perfectly normal to look at important political issues about their landing rights in Parliament's Chambers. We always do. That's normal work. You can experience that in any way you like. Sometimes these are tough conversations that, especially in the case of government participation, are quite normal. I shall leave the qualification of those talks which Mr Roemer gives to them entirely to him. But the fact that you're talking about how to achieve the landing rights is perfectly normal. If that weren't possible, it would be a very crazy situation. That is in response to Mr Roemer. Oh, yes, there is the question about the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. She has always said that this is a very important subject. That motivated me, all of us, and herself to get out. And that worked out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u200	Well, that last sentence... it's typical of this Prime Minister to give such a summary. A problem has been identified, which had to be solved, and it has succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u201	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u202	But more has happened. My question is this. If it is now the case that agreements that are supposed to be made in the coalition are so released, after which everyone is angry, after which everyone sits together for three days and then such a result is achieved, what does that say about the state of this Prime Minister's coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u203	This coalition is transforming more than any cabinet after the war. That is my political judgment. We don't just do that as a coalition. We are doing so in very close cooperation with three parties in this Chamber who are not part of the coalition but have said on a number of points: provided that important points are realised for us, we want to support them. That is also important for the support in the First Chamber. At the moment, this has led to Parliament piloting a reform package in the middle of this and its implementation. Once again, my political judgment is: the biggest from after World War II. It ignores Lubbers I, it ignores Kok I, it ignores Balkenende II. When you're doing that, it can happen that you're encountering a political problem. It could happen with a major operation like this. That's what happened here. Then it is important that there is the political will to get out. That is a complicated issue, so we have had to take time to do so. It worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u204	If the Prime Minister is thinking about how the Dutch have experienced over the past week, watching television, having seen the chaos, how does he think the Dutch have looked at his cabinet over the past week?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u205	Like all of us, namely that an important bill in the First Chamber did not receive sufficient support, that the bill was so important that it could not just pass and that we had to look for a way out of this political problem. I think we found that way out.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u206	I fear that the Prime Minister really has a completely distorted view of how the Netherlands is looking at this chaos. The Netherlands is working on what is happening with care on 1 January and sees a cabinet that is only dealing with itself. One more question for the Prime Minister. After everything that happened this week and all the angry words about and again, especially to the Labour Party, does he still think it normal and does he still think it is conceivable that he will be on the ride until 2017 with this cabinet and with this partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u207	Yes. The way in which these two parties have managed over the last few days to do the joint search for a solution, the atmosphere that was there and the confidence in which we did so, knowing that it was complicated, has only strengthened that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u208	I also hear the Prime Minister say that there is strong confidence. I also know this Prime Minister as the one who says: guarantees are only given on vacuum cleaners.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u209	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u210	There is therefore complete confidence in this modified proposal, which is either substantially modified if you listen to Samsom or Zijlstra, or have not changed at all if you take the appreciation of Pechtold. If there is confidence that the proposal will simply go through the First Chamber, why is there a "vacuum cleaner guarantee" built in the form of an AMvB threat?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u211	The cabinet has made arrangements with hospitals, patient associations and various organisations in the healthcare sector. As a coalition, we are confident that the way through which we will lead this legislation will result in a majority in favour of the legislative proposal in both Parliaments. Then I think it makes sense, also in view of the agreements made with parties outside this Parliament, that we show that we want to do everything we can to ensure that the agreements made are genuine agreements. That is why we have said: if it does not succeed, we think that this will not be the case, because we are convinced that it will succeed, then the coalition will talk to the Chamber to find a solution together.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u212	Is it the care agreement partners outside the parliament who have demanded that a backdoor guarantee be built in via an AMvB, or was it the VVD who had no confidence that the PvdA in the First Chamber will accept this second attempt?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u213	The coalition's conviction is that the amended bill will be able to count on a majority in both Parliament's Chambers. We have that confidence. We are dealing not only with the parliament, but also with the agreements made in the healthcare agreement and with the various agreements concluded last year with all kinds of parties, players, hospitals, medical associations and so on, dealing with a number of major issues in the care sector, where this bill is very essential. Now that that has gone wrong, I think it is logical that we should say in a letter to the Chamber that we want to do everything in our power to ensure that it succeeds and that agreement with those parties is also an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u214	That was an answer, but not to my question. Was it the desire of the VVD to ensure that the PvdA would not make a second mistake in the Upper Chamber? Or was it the desire of the social partners, the care partners with whom the healthcare agreement was concluded? Have they perhaps said: we have negotiated endlessly to reach a healthcare agreement, now you simply have to implement it? Whose wish did this come in? That whole construction around the AMvB, which we first heard from Mr Samsom, was it inspired by the partners of the healthcare agreement, or by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u215	The coalition is confident that the bill will pass through the Chamber. The coalition also feels very responsible to the parties outside the parliament with which agreements have been made. From the joint responsibility that we feel towards the parties outside this Chamber in the care sector, the Cabinet has considered it necessary to include the additional guarantee that, if it does not succeed, it will go in consultation with the Chamber in order to arrive at a joint search for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u216	I'm very interested in that meeting with the Chamber. I would like the Prime Minister to go into that a little further. I refer to the question that has already been asked on the advice of the national attorney. When can we get that advice? I would also like to ask a question about the conciliation procedure with the Chamber. If the courteous procedure does not succeed for the second time, the route will run along Article 126, if I understand it correctly. Will the Prime Minister have that route explored in advance by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u217	The idea I have just heard in the parliamentary debate is really for the Chamber and for the groups in the Chamber, even if it comes from the coalition groups. This also applies to all abbreviations and articles. I really leave that to them. The cabinet is convinced that this will work and that if this does not work, we will then understand with the Chamber. Then we'll find a solution together. That is the only thing I can say to the Chamber now. Other than that, everything's fine. I am sure it will not come to that; we will certainly come out. However, in view of the joint responsibility we feel towards the parties in the healthcare sector, we believe it is necessary to say that we will do everything we can to get out of it together with the Chamber. All those variants mentioned in the debate, I really must leave them to the parties in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u218	Or it's a hollow phrase, because you can write with every bill: if we don't get out of it, we go in consultation; that seems more than clear to me. Or it means something. When both group chairmen of the coalition parties mention the concept of AMvB, I think it is important, especially since the Prime Minister is still trying to give transparency about the process, to know whether he sees this AMvB as one of the means in which that consultation should take place. I ask him very specifically, and I would like to answer that, if he is prepared to have such a procedure examined in advance by the Council of State. I do not yet have an answer to my question on the advice of the national attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u219	An opinion from the state's attorney never brings the cabinet out. That's policy. The answer to the question about the Council of State is yes. Should it be necessary to seek advice from the Council of State as an integral part of the search for a solution, we will of course do so. That is only after we have established that the route through the new bill has not worked and after we have done that joint search with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u220	I'm pleased with the commitment that the route or a route, because that's how I still understand it...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u221	A route.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u222	If it had been the route, it could have been in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u223	No, it's a route, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u224	I understand very well that the nuance is that it is a route that can be examined in advance, transparently, by the Council of State, as usual. We'll write that down. A whole piece of advice from the national attorney is not brought out, but I think it is crucial that we can weigh up the arguments of the national attorney, because I feel that the national attorney has not advised on the law of the commitments already made, but on this particular document. I think this will be followed with interest in the Senate, when that route of the AMvB can be part of the solution here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u225	Mr Pechtold speculates on a possible route. I leave that to the political groups in the Chamber. I'm not ready yet. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna make a success of the bill. If that does not work, then I make one promise: that the cabinet will do nothing but after we, the Chamber and the Cabinet, together have done that orientation. Then we will look at the options that come on the table to implement those agreements in the care sector. I'm totally not getting ahead of what that could be. Then the state's attorney. That sounds very chic and it undoubtedly is, but it's just a law firm, no more than that. This gives support to the departmental legislative lawyers, if it is necessary to give additional advice. That happens in all kinds of areas and at all kinds of times, but we never bring it out. It is part of the normal decision-making in a cabinet to say: we are thinking about this, could we? If you bring those partial opinions out, you close the possibility for a cabinet to decide on the basis of opinions that may not lead to policy or which give rise to policy failure. Giving access to it can be politically complicated, so we never do. That's why we never bring out the country's attorney's advice. You can do that at the Council of State. It may be that in the joint approach we come to a route in which the Council of State is a logical part of it. It may also be that the Chamber says: perhaps it is not a standard part, but ask the Council of State for advice. Then, of course, we'll do it, without a doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u226	I heard the Prime Minister say that the country's attorney's advice does not go out and that the cabinet keeps it. In the first term, I put a question to the group chairman of the largest government party, who quoted from the advice of the country's lawyer. In short, just share that with the rest of the Chamber. If we can't do that in public, we want to be able to read it in private. I have another question for the Prime Minister. Does this mean that the cabinet chooses the royal route of a modified bill? Are there no package leaflets on this bill? If this bill has passed the Lower House, towards the Upper House, isn't there a package leaflet that includes an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u227	No, I didn't. We are going to bring the bill into procedure and we want to make it a success. It can end up here or later in the First Chamber, but we do not expect it to, because it takes great account of all the views expressed in the various debates. However, should it end, Chamber and Cabinet will discuss how to deal with the situation that has arisen, also given the agreements made with all kinds of parties in the care. In no way do we anticipate the way in which we are going to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u228	Is the cabinet, hearing the Chamber, where there are major objections to an AMvB, prepared to simply say that an AMvB is not possible if a legislative proposal is rejected for the second time and solutions to a problem, namely the healthcare agreement, are to be sought? I'm really speculating right now, but that's what the cabinet started in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u229	I think that's a strange question, because there's twice as-then. The first then concerns the stalling of the bill. The second then concerns what can emerge from the joint orientation, the route mentioned by a number of parties here. And I have to tell you how I feel about that right now. I'm not gonna answer that as-dan question right now. We'll see if it ever comes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u230	I didn't bring it up as-then. The Cabinet has sent a letter to the Chamber with an "as-then."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u231	Yeah, one.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u232	Yeah, one, but that as-then, of course, loosens something up in the room. The Chamber would like to know what those as-dances are. What are the possibilities? The government parties mentioned one. As you know, my group, the Christian Union Group, objects in principle if it is really on the table. I myself find it pleasant to give clarity to the cabinet from my position, but I also find it pleasurable if I myself get clarity back from the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u233	I'll give it to you. The bill will in no way refer to the then if it gets stuck. The bill will contain one AMvB. That is the AMvB that is related to what the Kuiper motion is also about in the Upper House. That is the only AMvB that will be mentioned in the bill. It will even be enshrined in the bill. However, that is a very different AMvB than the AMvB mentioned in the first term of the Chamber. I also think that Mr Slob will support this. Furthermore, there will be no mention in any way in the legislative proposal, even during its examination, of the then if the bill is to come to an end. If that happens, there will be a new situation and we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u234	Mr President, first of all, I have a point of order for you. The Prime Minister did not respond to a justified point made by Mr Slob on the advice of the national attorney. It may well have been customary for this to remain with the cabinet, but the VVD Group, through its group chairman, has announced that it has had access to it. He also quoted freely from the opinion. It cannot be, I tell you, Mr President, that one group in the Chamber has been able to see the opinion and not the rest. I assume you'll arrange for it to be seen confidentially or unconfidentially. So it's actually a request to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u235	I'll consider your request. I have to do it with the same answers as the rest of the Chamber. If the majority of the Chamber makes a statement, I'll fight it out. I can't make any more of it, but I can't make any less of it. In general, I can add that I will always put a question from the Chamber to the cabinet asking for a positive response. It's up to the cabinet to do it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u236	I'm very sorry, but I find this an unacceptable answer. The Prime Minister says it is customary for the country's attorney's advice to remain with the cabinet. Apparently, the cabinet has decided that one group might be two, but I have not heard of it.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It can't be. I want, either from you or from the Prime Minister, the promise that we can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u237	I suggest that you record that in a motion in a moment. We'll see how we can deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u238	I don't think this is necessary, because I have a question for the Prime Minister. Does he know the country's attorney's opinion on exclusion of American companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u239	The Prime Minister shakes no. That's what I'm saying for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u240	I got it right here. It was made available to the Chamber by Dr. R.H.A. It's pesky.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u241	Aha!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u242	Wouldn't the Prime Minister want to run now and say it never happens? Let us not embarrass Mr Zijlsta any further. I therefore propose that the non-existent tradition of not sharing this kind of advice with the Chamber should simply be abandoned. In view of the way in which the last few days have gone and the night-time on which we are debating, I would give up this line of work, Prime Minister. Can we, as usual, have access to the advice of the national attorney?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u243	No. You can't do that, because we'll be on the slide. Why is that? That is what Mr Pechtold knows, as a former minister too, because it is quite normal, in decision-making in a coalition, in a cabinet and sometimes in checking the way in which something lands with the coalition parties in the Chamber, to ask for all kinds of legal advice. If you have to reveal it every time, you give insight into the history of the final decisions that are being made. It would make it very complicated to make good decisions. Making good decisions requires a confidential process.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u244	Well, let me be clear, then. If the Prime Minister continues to do so, this is an additional reason for my group to be suspicious of the rule of consultation with the House of Representatives when the procedure falls for the second time. I would urge the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u245	I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u246	The Prime Minister says he doesn't get it. I'll be clear. There is a particular sentence in the letter about the procedure to be followed if it goes wrong. That's what the state's attorney has been consulting on. That advice is not about the content of the law. That should be about the possibility of the AMvB. If that is a possibility, the Prime Minister denies it, and my group asks him to share the advice of the national attorney, just as he was prepared to ask the Council of State for advice and to share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u247	Then I refer to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u248	Mr Zijlstra's name was mentioned a few times. I think it would be useful to give him the floor first to make a clarification comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u249	All this has, I believe, begun with the observation that I would have seen an opinion from the national attorney. Everyone should look at the Acts. I didn't quote from any advice. I've outlined that if you're in a process where you walk through all kinds of solutions and where there are questions, make sure things are right. The answer I received from the cabinet was: we hear from the state attorney that it is legal sound. I can say by heart that I did not see any advice, but that I was reassured after the cabinet had let me know that it was legal sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u250	I am going to make a procedural remark before we have a debate here between Members of Parliament while this is the government's term. This remark has now been made for clarification. The Prime Minister is asking for the floor. I propose that we resume the debate with the cabinet. If questions were raised by Mr Zijlstra, they could be put to him in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u251	I'd like to sketch out the following. When deciding on political choices, it is perfectly normal to get legal advice from the department's own legal lawyers. It is also perfectly normal that they should ask for a second opinion at appropriate times or take advantage of the further expertise of other legal advisers, such as the national attorney. In this particular case, that was also oral. A test was done on a particular variant to see how it would work. That was oral. That is what Mr Zijlstra has heard, and I have heard it myself. That opinion was not written; it was an oral opinion. That does not alter my general view that we keep the advice of the national attorney confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u252	I've rarely heard such a kid answer. You're not just gonna ask for advice because you're thinking, let me ask you a little advice. Here, we deliberately asked for legal advice on whether it is possible to circumvent the First Chamber via a General Measure of Management. It is not for nothing that you have included in the letter that you are going to look for other ways of getting the core values of the law through. This can only be done through a General Measure of Governance. And there is still a great deal of doubt as to whether it can be done at all, because that law does not actually provide for it. That is why you have, of course, asked for an opinion. So this is a very essential part of the subject that the cabinet itself started with.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u253	I'm really leaving that whole analysis on Mr. Roemer's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u254	I'm going to be sick of looking away, laughing away and ignoring serious questions from Parliament. The letter of the cabinet explicitly states the possibility that the First Chamber will again not adopt the law. Of course, the Cabinet has legitimate reasons for this. Otherwise this will not be included in the letter. You know that the three senators have said that they do not accept the destruction of the free choice of doctors. So you have a problem. If you write that in the letter, you will also have to answer the questions about it. Then you shouldn't laugh it off and then you shouldn't ignore it. Then you shouldn't pretend to be crazy Henkie.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u255	Mr. Roemer is getting agitated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u256	Pretty good!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u257	I can tell. That's up to him. He comes up with a lot of speculation about what might have happened behind the scenes. My only response to this is to leave that whole analysis and speculation about what may have happened behind the scenes on Mr Roemer's behalf. I do not need to go into every speculation about what has happened in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u258	That is not speculation, that is what the cabinet itself puts in its letter. I'm asking for an explanation of a quote from his own letter. I'm not asking for anything I think of myself. The cabinet itself put that part in the letter. I would ask for the legal provision of that. I ask what exactly the cabinet meant by that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u259	The letter that has now been sent to the Chamber states that, after making all the adjustments we have made, we are going to submit the bill again. Mr Roemer asked a question about the passage on what would happen if it got stuck. He asks, "Why do you take that option if you trust it to end well?" I have explained that we have done so because we feel responsible for the parties in the care with whom we have made agreements. In doing so, we want to show an extra effort that we are making to make these agreements a real success. The letter states: when it comes to what we do not expect, because we rely on this process..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's not a legal formulation, is it? That is simply a state-of-the-art statement that the cabinet then understands itself with the Chamber. Then Mr Roemer will speculate on what we could or could not have decided and weighed in those internal cabinet talks and the talks with the coalition parties. My response is this: I will leave that on Mr Roemer's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u260	The Prime Minister has said before that he has full confidence that it is going through the Upper Chamber. Yet there is a failsafe, a guarantee, invented with an AMvB. The Prime Minister just said that he shared with Mr Zijlstra the advice of the national attorney on that construction orally. The Prime Minister would therefore like to share that advice with the rest of the Chamber orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u261	There are some inaccuracies in the story. The specific route that was suggested just in the first term of the Chamber, including from coalition parties, about how you could possibly deal with the situation in which the bill was blocked and you're going to look for ways to carry out the agreements with the care parties, I'll leave those coalition parties on their behalf. The only thing that is said in the letter is that, in that situation, the cabinet will enter into consultation with the Chamber in order to reach a joint solution to the fact that the agreements with the concerned parties in that situation cannot be met. That is the only thing that is said in the letter: nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u262	I didn't get a response from the Prime Minister to my previous interruption either. At that time I asked: was this mainly at the request of the VVD or what was it mainly at the request of the parties to the healthcare agreement? Now I'm not getting an answer. I'm asking a simple question. We are very interested in the opinion of the national attorney on another construction that has been shared with Mr Zijlstra. Can that be shared with the rest of the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u263	I explained that in a process of decision-making, you can talk to legal advisers about all kinds of matters. On the road to final decision-making you make an intermediate step, where a lot of things lose weight, things happen and things don't happen. The advice you ask gives access to certain political, legal or administrative choices on the way to final decision-making. If you are going to give access to it, you make it almost impossible to come to careful decision-making. That is why those opinions are never made public. There is simply a very simple, administrative, sensible argument for that. I did not answer the question that Mrs Van Tongeren asked me earlier, at the request of the parties concerned. That is because the coalition feels responsible for the agreements we have made that, if it should go wrong, but we do not expect it to go wrong, we do not have to be afraid and we will do everything possible to find a route, in consultation with the Chamber, to meet the agreements. Was it at the request of one of the two coalition parties that we accepted that sentence? No, it has been a joint decision of the two coalition parties, because we feel jointly responsible towards the care party.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u264	I studied law a long time ago, and if something happens once, it could be an incident. If it happens twice, it starts to become a pattern. However, there are three examples. Then the Prime Minister can no longer say that the country's attorney's advice is not shared. The first example has already been mentioned. The second example is the advice of the state attorney on the rent increase that Minister Remkes sent to the Chamber. The third example will be presented by Mr Van der Staaij to the Prime Minister. I therefore have the question again: why can what has been shared orally with Mr Zijlstra not now be shared orally with the Chamber? Then we don't have to suspend for two hours until it's on paper. Why can't that be shared orally with this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u265	But there's a difference here. Now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. What's the difference now? If you are dealing with final decision-making, with the advice of the country's attorney, it is perfectly logical that you can share that as a cabinet, because the decision-making process is then completed and the advice of the country's attorney gives further advocacy to the decision-making process. What we are talking about here is not a final decision. Here you are talking about the fact that, on the way to final decision-making, you say in the interim on parts: we are thinking of this and: lawyers, think about it or it might be possible. On another part, lawyers say: yes, we also want to ask for external advice from the national attorney. That's normal. If you have to make these interim opinions public, on the way to decision-making, you can see the intermediate steps on the way to final decision-making. You make it almost impossible to make decisions. That's why we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u266	I would almost like to ask the Prime Minister if he knows the advice of the state attorney on double counting biofuels. I didn't, because the Chamber didn't get that when she asked for it in 2012. Since 2006, there seems to be a policy of government not to disclose advice from the country's attorney, but relevant facts and arguments from the opinion. We could be informed about this. If it is still the policy line that we can take note of relevant facts and arguments from the opinion, then the question is: because that exploration has apparently been carried out and here we were talking about whether the Prime Minister recognizes from that analysis the concerns associated with the use of a general coat rack clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u267	In general terms, once the decision-making process has been completed and the country's lawyer or others have advised on this, as I outlined in my previous reply to Mrs Van Tongeren's question, you can indeed make that opinion public or give it access to the investors and the various elements that led to that opinion. But that does not apply to being on the road to decision-making, where there is no final decision at all and you ask in the meantime: think about it, look at this and it could.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u268	But apart from the advice of the lawyer, that option has been prominently put on the table by a number of parties, and not the least in this house, namely PvdA and VVD. They say that is a real possibility. Then it is important to hear the vision of the cabinet, isn't it? If it is said that this is a very good possibility, are there not also major objections to such an option, namely that a general coat rack is not used specifically enough? And can that not easily be regarded as a legal shortcut rather than the royal parliamentary road?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u269	Mr Van der Staaij does not ask me to deal in a general way with the use of general provisions on coat racking. He asked for this in the context of this debate, in which a number of groups also mentioned that specific route as a possible interpretation of that sentence in the letter. I have already said that I leave that to those groups. As far as the cabinet is concerned, we do not anticipate that; these are questions as then. The only question I answer in the letter is what we do if it gets stuck. Then we'll talk to you about getting out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u270	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u271	I'll take a look at my notes, Mr. Chairman. The strength of your Chamber is that with all the interruptions she has taken away from me all the other things I would have liked to report. So I suggest you give the floor to Mrs Schippers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u272	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u273	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has an important mission, namely to improve the quality of care and at the same time to manage costs. It is a real challenge to keep those costs affordable for everyone in the country. In addition, last year the Finance Minister was still 6 billion short to pull this country out of the crisis. For that, he also came to the Minister of Health to ask: do you have a billion, because you are responsible for 20% of collective spending and we need 6 billion to get this country out of the crisis. In this context, I have reached a broad agreement with the whole sector: with patients, with doctors, with hospitals, with institutions, with insurers. At the heart of that agreement is that you reduce costs, not by increasing your own risk, not by taking package measures, but by limiting the volume. Limiting the volume by providing only sensible and economical care, reducing the volume by reducing the differences in treatment and by delivering really only these treatments in the best way, by reducing recovery operations, and all without the waiting lists rising. That is an extremely important agreement, because if you fail to comply with it, you will automatically fall back into the package measures and into the own risk measures. We'd really like to avoid that. We have signed these basic agreements. Then it is also important to make it happen. This measure would start from 2016, so there is still time to make that happen. I am therefore very motivated to seek the support of both Chambers for a new legislative proposal, with adjustments that I make from the debates in both Chambers, and thus, of course, to respond to the concerns that live. But also to remove many misunderstandings about this bill and to make our contribution to the main agreements in accordance with our agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u274	Actually, I only have two questions for the Minister. Why and how many times has she waved her wallet? And why did she demand in advance that senators give a guarantee that they will vote in favour of this law next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u275	As I pointed out, these basic agreements are extremely important because they prevent us from taking measures that create a real division, namely that you have to pay things that really go out of the package for 100% of yourself or that if you increase your own risk you will have to pay them big amounts, which you know you have a bridge with low income. That's why my motivation is so great. You have to wave your wallet when you don't see any light, if you don't think you're coming out. I didn't think for a second that we wouldn't get out of here. This search was not a quest of mine as a VVD minister or of the VVD narrow section. I have experienced this quest as a quest with the colleagues of the PvdA in the cabinet. We've been looking together for a way out of this. You're not here to keep a chair warm. You sit here as long as you see opportunities to realize what you believe in. If you see those odds, you're gonna have to take them. I didn't think for a second about wobbling a little bit. That's not how I'm gonna be. I will fight as long as I see opportunities to realize my ideals. So I didn't wave my wallet at all. I was disappointed. Yeah, I was hoping the bill would make it. The interests were great, but giving up hasn't occurred to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u276	I note that the Minister here denies threatening to have her wallet, of which I take note. Perhaps the truth will come out sometime if it were different. My second question was not answered by the Minister: why did she want to play it so hard? I understand that she is motivated to pass her bill, but that does not justify a member of the cabinet putting pressure on senators by asking for guarantees in advance to vote for a law that still needs to be offered to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u277	If questions are asked, I will answer them sincerely. That answer is true, otherwise I wouldn't give it. For me, it is important that I feel, in substance, that this is a second chance, that this amended legislative proposal would actually fall into fertile soil. In my discussions with the senators who voted against it, I noticed that they do not know what the content of an AMvB is, which, in their words, alters the balance of power between insurers and insured persons, that they want to see how it is shaped and that they want to see whether it is designed in a serious way for them. I said that such an AMvB could really be anchored in the law, because this is a heavier way. They wanted to see this AMvB when the vote on the law is on and not after, as we had planned. The balance between insured persons and insurers was another subject of discussion. Can we find each other on that? The Kuiper motion indicated very nicely in three lines how you could bring that balance out differently. For example, there have been other topics that you want to feel or there is a lot of light in terms of content. You depend on each other to realize this. At the moment that there is material light, you feel that you come out together and that you also give this a good chance of success, is for me the motivation to start this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u278	I understand the Minister is motivated. It would be weird if the minister weren't. That we disagree about the law may be. That's a democracy. But I can assume that members of the cabinet would like to convince Parliament both the Second and the First Chamber on content and not on power? That's what we've heard in the last few days. Senators have been pressured to issue guarantees that will be voted upon if that law is passed for the second time. I can also assume that there is a real need for a different way of keeping the substance of the law alive through AMvB if the proposal does not pass through the First Chamber the second time? So that is not debate on the basis of content and persuasion, but on the basis of power. That's unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u279	The conversations I've had with senators about this law have just been about content and nothing else. Moreover, if this law does not succeed, you will have to see whether you can achieve the objectives of the Main Line Agreement not through your own risk or through package measures, but through efficiency. That is why it says in this letter that you are talking about how you can make your contribution to the main agreements. It has now been sought in an efficiency where you say: institutions that are too expensive or do not provide enough quality, which means that there are recovery operations that can be prevented, we do not want to have to contract or reward. But of course there are all kinds of other ways in which you could also increase the efficiency of such a system. Article 13 cannot be repeated in a surrogate. Article 13 can only be amended in the law. That bill was ahead of us. That bill is still being amended. I will present it to you for a second time. In this way, we can have another substantive debate on the legislative proposal. I have been asked whether the safeguards previously provided by parties who have contributed to the bill that has been rejected will remain in the next law. That will, of course, be the case, I say to Mr Van der Staaij. What does "regardless of the nature of the policy" mean? That's about the free choice of doctors. You have the free choice of doctors regardless of the nature of the policy, because the policy has to be contracted in such a way that there are enough doctors to choose between. That's how we agreed. At first you have the choice between all kinds of different policies. In addition, you can ask yourself what you think is important. You can also look at what was bought in. That's what the bill says. Then you can see if the policy suits you. Secondly, you have the free choice of doctors, because within these policies all kinds of different doctors have been contracted between which you can choose. Why doesn't the Minister opt for an emergency law to ensure the personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act? In this morning's letter, I stated in detail that the administrative consultations between VWS, the health insurance companies and Per Recht, the agreements that we wanted to legally lay down, have also been secured in the administrative agreements. It is therefore not the case that the agreements are at odds. No one has to be afraid of that. The people who had a pgb also keep them, in accordance with the agreements we would have liked to lay down in the law. Then I want to make a new law as soon as possible. I'll present it to the Chamber with the pgb. I think I gave the answers with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u280	This brings the first deadline to an end. Is there a need for a second term? I see a finger. I'll take a look around. Mr Roemer, do you need a second term? I'm just gonna see who needs a second term. Mr Samsom, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Wilders and Mr Roemer do not need a second term. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u281	Mr. Chairman. We will look at the content of that bill for the second time, but of a new legislative proposal, in detail. I understand, and I have just understood, from the words of the Minister of Health, that the new bill will consist of what had already been stated in the old bill, supplemented by the motions and commitments that have been added to the process from here in the First Chamber. If that means that, as Mr Zijlstra said, the PvdA senators will eventually be satisfied, the cabinet will be able to support the feeling expressed tonight about a positive process. We will see that: the commitments in a legislative proposal. But now for the trial. The threat of the cabinet is absolutely uncomfortable for my group. When the letter appeared, my colleague Samsom already mentioned the AMvB on the radio. Mr Zijlstra was also clear about this and the Prime Minister certainly did not rule it out. It could interfere with a careful process. In addition, the Prime Minister does not give access to the advice of the national attorney and is not even prepared to explain the arguments contained in the opinion here. As we are going to take a longer time on this, I call on the Cabinet to give us these assurances. I'd like that argument. I'd like to know what happened. I'm afraid there's gonna be a blockage if Parliament starts looking for the way to the lawyer's advice. I am pleased, and call on the Prime Minister to continue in the same spirit, that the Council of State is part of the process towards that eventuality. I regard this as an emergency measure, an emergency measure that you only take when things really happen other than an important agreement or a financial problem for budgets. This has not been the case in our history. At the moment, for my group, these matters do not outweigh the means that are in fact hanging over the market here tonight. Or is it this morning? I am not standing here with a motion because I do not want to force this with the same constructive attitude that the cabinet is calling for, but I want a normal commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u282	Mr. Chairman. I think tonight I have discovered a new definition of the word "trust" in the cabinet. Trust and even complete trust is something you say when you think it's gonna be okay, but in the form of trust the Prime Minister has to build in a very solid guarantee to make sure you get what you want. In my first term, I said we witnessed an industrial accident. This evening's debate was about the legal handling of that accident: is there going to be any tricky AMvB or perhaps the Prime Minister hinted at it a different form and is that state-law blackmail or is that entirely in line with the democratic process? Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra called the AMvB a necessity. Mr Samsom was the first to bring that up. In the letter we found only a slight clue. Otherwise there is a chance that the First Chamber will not agree again the second time and a guarantee must be built in. So as far as the definition of trust is concerned, I think that both coalition partners should reconsider what they think is trust during Christmas holidays, if you have to take such a tough measure to enforce it. More important than respecting the judgment of the First Chamber are the agreements made with the insurers; that is where we heard the Prime Minister singing. If so, the primacy of politics is finally out of hand. I'll also point out to the Prime Minister that you can adjust your appointments. That is what happened with the social agreement. At the request of D66 that was accelerated. On the other hand, we have Mr Slob, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pechtold, who rightly claim that this is not entirely pure state law. Mr Slob was most clear. He said that as long as the threat of passing the First Chamber hangs in the air, he cannot agree to this law. Then what did our Prime Minister do? He didn't want to talk about an AMvB. He was shy about an opinion or not present by the lawyer and clung to the magic formula: if the amended bill were not to be adopted unexpectedly, the cabinet would enter into consultation with the Chamber. The measures contained in the Minister's letter are empty. There is nothing more said in that letter than already stated in the Kuiper motion. There are a few words that may be modified in the explanatory memorandum. Material doesn't change anything. There's gonna be a new title and there's gonna be a new chaff around it. I don't think that's the way we're supposed to deal with each other in this house. As I said before, my group strongly supports the free choice of doctors and we also hope that the Prime Minister and the Minister are prepared to amend the healthcare agreement and then to ensure that the wishes of the States-General are reflected in the legislation adopted in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u283	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I will be brief in my second term, because all those people in the public gallery really want to go home. In my first term, I indicated that we will deal with the bill that has been announced in the normal way. It is good that the safeguards already contained in the bill that has been rejected will come back. It is also good that there are still opportunities to further strengthen this. We will face this openly and constructively. This constructive attitude also includes a critical sentence, as was pointed out this evening, also by our group, in the vein of: Cabinet, if you say you are choosing the royal route, i.e. the route of a law in a formal sense, with treatment by the Second and First Chambers, do not at the same time keep a legal shortcut open with Article 126, which in any case has been mentioned by the PvdA Group and the VVD Group. This has become part of the debate and an interpretation of the general as-dance passage in the letter of the cabinet. My position on this from the SGP has also been clear: we do not think this is a good route. I would ask the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health to come back to the background and the intention of Article 126 in a legal analysis so that we can continue the debate on this in this Chamber at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u284	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS for his reply and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, also Deputy Prime Minister, for his presence. At this late hour I can at least say that one more Dutchman thinks that the cabinet has been strengthened from this week, and that is the Prime Minister himself. I congratulate him on that. The bill will come back and we will see it in the Chamber. However, it has become clear that there is still concern about what will happen if the bill is not adopted and above all about that strange threat that is or is not over the table, namely what will happen if the First Chamber does not agree. For that reason, and since I believe that the Chamber should be clear about the action of the cabinet that it expects when a new law comes into effect, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bill governing the restriction of choice of doctors was not supported by the States General;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet now indicates that it will continue to implement the same law with some minor amendments;]] [[calls on the Government not to submit the bill under threat of filing an AMvB in case of non-acceptance in the Second or Upper Chamber;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Wilders, Van Tongeren and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33362-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u285	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister of VWS and the Prime Minister for their response in the first term and I thank the Minister of SZW for his presence. I think the situation is clear. The cabinet underlines, also in the reply, which was already stated in the letter, that it will come up with a revised legislative proposal. We await that bill with interest. I note that Mr Buma has already had access to the law, because he mentioned minor amendments. I don't know yet, but we'll see what the cabinet comes up with. I note, however, that the legal anchoring of the Kuiper motion mentioned in the letter is, as far as we are concerned, a considerable change. There is one more point I would like to raise here. What is the government going to do in the theoretical situation that this bill will be rejected again? I never like that speculation, but the cabinet started with it in the letter. It has also become part of this debate. There are also coalition parties that have already indicated which route they would consider passable, namely the route of the AMvB. People who know the legal histories know what our position has been, even when it comes to that famous article 126 of the Health Insurance Act that was mentioned. It is clear that my group does not feel that this article should be used in this way. My group has that position even without having heard a lawyer or read anything about it. That is a position that we have established over time. We are clear about that. The Prime Minister shall keep open the options which will then, in due course, be applied should that theoretical situation arise. He does say: I will then go into this in consultation with Parliament. I do not need to make or support motions on this subject now, in this debate. But here's what I'm gonna say, including the Cabinet. Should there be an amended legislative proposal here in the Chamber when it is not clear whether the government will close the AMvB's route, so if the cabinet still keeps that route open, my group will have a motion put to the vote before the vote on the legislative proposal in order for the Chamber to rule on it. The result of the vote on that motion will then be taken into account by my group in determining our final position on this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u286	Mr Klein has waived the floor. The same applies to Mr Bontes, Mr Kuzu and Mr Krol. Then the second term of office has come to an end. The Prime Minister may immediately answer the questions and give a response to the motion tabled. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u287	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the various comments made in the second term. Quite precisely, Mr Pechtold, I make a commitment: yes, Council of State. As far as the national attorney is concerned, I could also imagine the following. Suppose the route of the bill has been established and suppose that in such a dialogue between the Chamber and the Cabinet and in the joint orientation a variant is eventually found on which the country's attorney, in the process of building up to decision-making, has been consulted. I could imagine that we would send this to the Chamber with the final proposals. In any case, let me make that commitment. I agree with Van der Staaij: no shortcuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u288	I think the Prime Minister is saying that an opinion has been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u289	No. I said: let's say that at some point the bill has come to an end, that then the consultation we took place in the letter on hits between the Chamber and the Cabinet and that this joint search has led to conclusions on how or how we can keep the agreements with the care parties. If, in the past, the further development of that route would have been the advice of the national attorney, I think it would be reasonable in itself to give access to it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u290	We checked the stenogram. Mr Zijlstra did say that we had it checked. So that's just asking the state's attorney for advice. Just don't beat around the bush!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u291	I don't care about anything. Mr Zijlstra said what he said. I do not think that you should disclose advice from building up to decision-making, because it would be almost impossible to reach any decision at all. I also assume that the SP Group does not meet in public. I believe that in the past only D66 did so, but I do not think that now either. You sometimes need the discretion of the consultation and also of advice. Now let's say that's my point now that we're finally gonna get stuck, which I don't expect, and after that joint orientation we're gonna find a route and the country's lawyer would have advised on that in the past, then I think it's very reasonable to send those advice. I agree with Van der Staaij: no shortcuts. If it got stuck, the cabinet would go in consultation with the Chamber and then we would look together for a solution that is through the front door, straight forward, straight ahead, which would fit into parliamentary practice, et cetera, et cetera. Mr Van Haersma Buma's motion on item No. 49 is unnecessary, because there is no threat of filing an AMvB. I didn't talk about that, and I don't recognize this either. That also discourages the motion from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-18-tweedekamer-71.u292	We are going to vote on the motion in one minute unless there is a need for a group meeting. I see that is not the case.
