ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	I propose to the spokesmen that we use two or three interruptions as a directive in the first period and interrupt in two. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State to reply briefly later. Seven speakers have come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Education Time Act in secondary education. It's the sequel to a moving file. For years, politics has pursued secondary education with the notorious 1,040 hours standard. I remember the fierce protests as a fresh Member of Parliament. The 1,040 hours standard was based from the outset on false assumptions. It was wrong to assume that a school year contains a net 40 weeks. Moreover, the funding was insufficient. It took eight years from 2006 to fix this error. Initially, the previous government wanted to restore this already in 2012, but this was prevented by the PVV, which at the very last came up with an amendment for a 1,040 hour standard. So it kept wringing. Hence the bill we are discussing today. Hopefully it won't take that long before the government realizes that she's on the wrong track. There too it is wise to listen to education. I'd like a response. What went wrong? It sounds simple. You give schools money for a number of classes that should lead a student to pass the exam. In practice, education time became a difficult political battle, with reality in schools all too often out of the picture. Who doesn't want to give all students enough good lessons? If you demand that a school offers 1,040 hours but fails to finance, that is asking for problems. That is exactly what happened when in 2008 the Museumplein flooded with students, parents and teachers under the slogan "Stop the sewer duty!'. It was a fight for good quality education, against senseless upholstery without teachers and only meant to achieve that standard of hours. I ask the supporters of that time whether they now recognise that. In the meantime, we have arrived in 2014. With 1,000 hours a year and some room at school level, the schools can make it strong; there has been peace. The cabinet now dares to turn the button of education time again. The proposals are not bad. The hourly standard per training instead of per school year is not wrong. You keep a school from cramping every year for 1,000 hours. It'll give you room. The schools sigh enough under the reckoning culture, the number fetishism, the performance compulsion and the excellence drive of the VVD, grindingly accepted by the PvdA. However, there are also some concerns. The schools will have more room to tune what counts as education time. How do you prevent this from leading to lengthy discussions at school level? What does matter and what doesn't? I'd like to get a reaction to this. There are criteria for real education time. The competent teacher must be accessible, able to intervene and there must be interaction. What exactly does this mean? These criteria do not prevent the so-called teacher within walking distance, also known as DOLA. This led to a lot of discussion, because students were then left to their fate. See in particular the MBO, whose students just went out on the streets to get lessons. "We want class," it said on their banner. How do we prevent this DOLA? Can't you easily define teaching time as: lesson from a qualified teacher? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Undoubtedly, most schools will make good choices, but what do we offer the student at a school that is very advanced in the definition of teaching time, for example, from outsmarted educational concepts or from a financial shortage? Suppose a student hardly sees his teacher, do we refer that student to the participation council, the inspection or the complaints committee? Is there gonna be a correction in time? It concerns the quality of education and the right of a pupil to good education. I'd like to get a reaction to this. How is the Secretary of State going to provide the participation councils with sufficient information and guidance to make a proper assessment at school level? What should the co-determination council pay particular attention to? Is there a right of consent when an administration makes unacceptable choices? This step towards more room for schools can lead to a release of resources, as there is no need to be directly corrected if less lessons are given in a school year. Can the Secretary of State indicate how much the release will be? This is important, because the National Education Agreement has agreed that the resources released at school level will be used to reduce working pressure at team level and to maintain and increase employment at school level. Work pressure relief and job retention? We've seen how the Secretary of State deals with it before. How is he going to ensure that these funds are now really well earmarked and not become part of the millions that have disappeared? I am referring to the extra money for education which we do not know exactly where it has gone. I'd like to get an accurate response to this. To sum up, it's not a bad proposal. We're finally done with a pinching hour standard. Sywert van Lienden, former chairman of LAKS, can be satisfied. It's a good thing there's more room for schools. I would like to hear an answer to the questions of how quality is adequately guaranteed and how the government deals with the released funds. Finally. More time and space for teachers is needed to improve education. That is not yet achieved with this bill. This requires considerable investment. See you at the next election.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. All pupils in secondary education deserve inspirational, challenging and meaningful education, which prepares them as best as possible for personal, social and occupational functioning and for further education. Education time is an important prerequisite for this. For example, it is set out in the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to this legislative proposal. If it's up to the parties here, except for the VVD and the PVV, you achieve that wonderful goal with less education time, less learning, fewer subjects, less government control and less structure. Less, less, less, but let's talk about education now. This Secretary of State calls this "modernisation of education" in his inimitable newspeak. The PVV disagrees with everything this law aims to do. We come from a situation in which schools were unable to give form and content to the hourly standard. We remember how higher education had to think of everything to correct shortages of competences such as language and mathematics. At that time, we adopted motions and an amendment by Mr Beertema, with the support of the VVD and the CDA, to counteract the further decline in teaching time. Was the hourly standard ever 1,076, then it became 1,040 and now it threatens to become 1,000 with further flexibilisation. It is always presented as an incentive for the quality of education which the student benefits most: less education time, less learning, fewer subjects, less government control, less structure. In this inimitable political spider, parents and pupils must believe that this is what is best for them. Lessons, however, do not improve language skills. It seems like a miracle what's going on here. We are and remain in favour of strict quality control of educational time by the government. We remain in favour of a standard, an annual standard of 1,040, 1,000 and 700 hours, because there are educational disadvantages that need to be eliminated. If they aren't there because students are already very good, I hear people saying: then they can do something else, then within that hour standard, those students can strive to become excellent. This would improve the quality of education. For us, educational quantity and quality are closely linked. Teaching time is nice. The interaction between teacher and student should be a celebration instead of being experienced as a pinching and rigid straitjacket that has become obsolete. However, this coalition too cannot leave education alone and speaks in the coalition agreement of "that modernisation." During the budget debate on 11 December 2012, D66 tabled a motion to give schools more room to decide on the number of hours of education. All parties, again, the PVV and the VVD did not support that motion. That's gonna get its hands on it. This legislative proposal paves the way for a disordered, structured school that threatens danger where external supervision will be flawed and where internal supervision will fail, because it almost always happens after two years. "Freedom happiness" will become the new culture. The students and the parents will be confronted with unclear schedules, hours outages, gaps in the schedule, teachers and supervisors who do not know who is responsible for what and large rooms full of computers with pupils behind them who have to steer themselves in lonely digital pathways without clear purpose, usefulness or necessity with a teacher at walking distance, Mr Van Dijk already referred to this; we call it the "lol" band that also does not know what the pupil is doing. Where have we seen all this before? Indeed, in the CGO, the competence-driven education, because that is undoubtedly what this is going to look like. I believe that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	I was just looking for a natural moment in your speech. As you point that out yourself, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u5	I would have been really worried if Mr Beertema had embraced this bill, because it would never have been the intention of my motion at the time. Sometimes one recognizes the right path to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u7	Anyway, let me translate this into a question. In this motion, and also in the way it is being developed, there is a need for tailor-made work for pupils. The idea behind it is that each student is different and has his own needs and that there should be room for the teacher to work on the quality of the lessons that Mr Bertema and I both pursue. Does Mr Beertema agree that there should be more tailor-made work and that there should be more room in a teacher's working week to work on the quality of lessons rather than giving the same lessons every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u8	That customization is important. Mr Van Meenen is also from teaching practice, as am I. I've been dealing on the class floor for decades with managers and drivers who wanted me to bring out more and more customization in all kinds of flexible trajectories. Those classes became more and more heterogeneous instead of homogeneous. That too was a modernisation. One thing I know: for teachers, this is an incredible job. It doesn't make them happy. It's getting out of hand, restless and chaotic. Mr Elias, the CDA and I, during the reign of the Rutte I cabinet, made sure that the 80 hours for customisation came within the hours standard that was there at the time. They could be fully deployed, just for the occasions that Mr Van Meenen is now talking about. That solution was already there. I will ask the Secretary of State what problem we are solving with this law. I will also put that question to Mr Van Meenen if he makes his contribution; I will not do so now...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u9	In fact, I wanted to suggest that you do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u10	In response to Mr Van Meenen's question, I say: all this flexibility and all this individualisation is a huge battle in schools, because teachers often can't handle it. A large percentage of teachers do not even control the basic competences of traditional teaching, let alone that those teachers are able to function well within an incredibly complex model of flexible lessons and learning pathways.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u11	Just a little while longer. In a sense, I consider this to be a basis for the proposal before us. Does Mr Beertema agree with me that the problems that teachers have in responding to the differences between pupils call for time for those teachers to train themselves, so that they can learn those skills that Mr Beertema considers to be lacking?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u12	Of course. There will have to be room for teachers to learn that. Again, traditional education already offers so much space to teachers who are just good teachers. They see what the individual differences are and they are able to challenge and inspire students. It's possible. We do not need a major intervention. After all, the proposal is a profound intervention in education, and we must not be wrong about that. Education doesn't have to wait for that. Education just wants peace and quiet. By the way, it seems that by using the term 'traditional education' we are putting things very opposite; I blame it on the Secretary of State for constantly using the word'modernisation' in the semantic war he has waged.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u13	I would ask you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u14	For us, quantity and quality are closely linked; that is the bottom line. I have said that this time of education is beautiful, but I always read with the Secretary of State and others that the standard of hours is perceived as tight and rigid, whereas it should be experienced as a celebration. As far as we are concerned, the bill paves the way for a disordered, structural school. Internal surveillance will fail. I have already said something about the CGO, which Mr Van Dijk has also spoken about. The hollow rhetoric reappears. At the time that happened when we talked about the CGO and now it happens again. "Flexibilisation," "modernization," "customization"; it's all hollow rhetoric. The bill should be a modernisation of what we already have. This implies that everything we have is hopelessly out of date. My question to the Secretary of State is what is modern about the bill. What problem do we solve with this law? I have just mentioned it in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Meenen. We hear that the current legal framework is too binding and too rigid. So we must now move on with less hours. Does that make the legal framework less binding? I think there are still the same problems. We are pleased to receive a response to this. What is the position of the Secretary of State against the perverse solutions to all internal problems that will arise in connection with the new law? In my opinion, these problems will only increase rather than decrease. Management will cut down, I say to the Secretary of State, hours and teachers. Replacement of a sick teacher or filling in a job vacancy is expensive. A job vacancy is expensive; an illness replacement is expensive. I mention, for example, a vacancy or a replacement of a first-degree German, natural, mathematics or chemistry teacher. This law puts the risk that this vacancy will be postponed. We would have done something about that danger in Rutte I. That is the danger of the too great freedom of the management and management layers, which are once again becoming a kind of social entrepreneur. The Secretary of State says that with the Modernisation of Education Time Act there will be more room for customization, flexibility and so on. He also says that with an hourly standard over an entire training, instead of an hourly standard per year, a peak load, workload and planning cramp are avoided. That all seems so beautiful, but I'm saying it's wishful thinking. It is clear that it serves the organization in the first place, and not the pupils, because they need structure and a responsible didactic structure, especially in foreign language education, for example. I ask the Secretary of State: who will have all these practical problems at the end of the day? I am referring to the practical problems which I have just discussed with Mr Van Meenen. Those practical problems, the heaviness of this new model, will end up on the teacher's plate. That's a problem. I'd like a reaction to that. This law does not take account of the current problems of education and removes the last two guarantees in education: a rota and a class association. That's gonna be broken, it's gonna have to be. I would suggest that well-guided schools, where hours are not messed up with endless series of timetable changes, teacher meetings, etc., are schools where teachers and students work within structures, where there is rest and regularity and where teachers simply come to what they are good at: providing a beautifully coherent education offer. Those are the schools where managers do their job well. They serve the primary process. The Education Council also noted, as early as 2007, that an extension of education time is a cost-effective measure to counter underperforming. It can be as simple as that! If we compare the old situation and the new situation, we can see that students are declining for 80 hours. That is both on the vmbo and on the havo and on the vwo. On average, 925 hours will be taught at VMBO. On the Havo, 940 hours will be taught and on the vwo 950 hours will be taught. Does the Secretary of State have the idea that education is currently performing so well that hours can be cancelled? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I'm closing up. The PVV disagrees with everything. She chooses reality. That is to focus on quality, teachers and education, not on playing semantic games and throw away the whole foundation of education time under the guise of modernisation. I will mention the figures again. It's 80 clock hours. That's 80 times 60 minutes. That's losing 4,800 minutes per education. That's the bottom line. 4,800 minutes in practice are about 120 lesson moments of 40 minutes each. So we'll talk about three full weeks of class. Three full weeks of teaching are given away, and that is what we call modernisation of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. The whole discussion about education time I experienced at the time from the educational field. In that field, the feeling was widely shared that there is hardly a dossier that has caused so much disappointment in the field of education and so much alienation from political decision-making and everything surrounding it as this dossier. It was in the experience of many educational people, who had to deal with this either as a teacher or as a supervisor in practice, a completely non-discussion. Quality and quantity became far too much and too much intertwined. Of course they deal with each other, but they wanted to guarantee quality by guaranteeing quantity. There was also quite a back and forth bouncing. Was it supposed to be 1,040 hours, 1,032 hours or still 1,000 hours? Or was it supposed to be 1,040 hours again? That has done an enormous amount of damage to the case. As a result, the disappointment from education in politics and decision-makers has become enormous. You could speak of some kind of breakup. The Education Council has already pointed this out. What should you do if there is a breakup or a crisis of confidence in a relationship? You should not speak fine words, but take steps or make actions. You have to show that you not only acknowledge that mistakes have been made, but also take measures to correct those mistakes. The draft law before us is in the right direction, according to the SGP, but we believe that a more generous gesture could help restore credibility. There's hardly anyone waiting for muscle talk about teaching time anymore. In practice, big words often prove empty promises. It appears particularly difficult in practice to shape the monitoring of the hourly standard in an effective and compact way. The SGP therefore appreciates the fact that the Cabinet consciously explains and accepts the risks in the present proposal. Monitoring at individual pupil level is not feasible. In the substructure, this may still be feasible, because there are class associations there, but in the superstructure it is excluded because of the choice of sector and the choice of profile. In this way, the personal learning paths are already present in the base. It is possible if you require the schools and the inspection to invest in very complex registration systems in which all activities are recorded in detail, i.e. up to the hour level. So you really have to choose a kind of Big Brother system; then you can. However, you should not ask what costs are involved and how many hours of effort are needed to quantify them once in money. You have to ask yourself if you can't spend your resources in a better way. In the present proposal, the cabinet is satisfied with slightly less guarantees at national level in order to prevent us from being monitored up to the millimeter. That appeals to the SGP. The SGP supports the choice not to set the legal standard per year, but to set the total number of hours for all years of a school type. It offers flexibility. However, after reading the note on the report, the intention of the proposal for me has unfortunately become a little more shadowy. In the explanatory statement, the cabinet states that it wants to organise the monitoring per school year. This means, for example, that the standard for a havo programme is being tested across all Havo classes in a given school year, or is that not the intention? If that were the case, it would mean that deficits in one class would be compensated by hours of another class in the same year. That can't be true, can it? The cabinet therefore states in its reply that compensation is also possible in later school years. A deficit in Havo-1 can then be compensated the following year in Havo-2. That seems to me to be a sober solution and a practical approach. I assume that this is the intention, but I would also like to point out that this is the way the fork is moving. In any event, the SGP considers it unsatisfactory that the proposed legislative text contradicts the way in which monitoring is carried out. After all, the legislative proposal focuses on the standard for a cohort, while monitoring is used to assess the planning and implementation of the cohorts by school year and type of school. How does the Secretary of State view the divergence of the two principles? The SGP is in favour of setting up the monitoring of the cohort, on the understanding that the deficit in the current school year will be compensated in the following year. We have just talked about this. The cabinet rightly states that the possibilities for tailor-made work are indispensable. However, the proposal no longer makes that customisation explicit. The noble argument is that every hour of education has to be customized. That is a beautiful confession that no one can oppose, but this starting point must then get hands and feet. Such a general formulation does not seem very realistic and workable for the establishment and assessment of a table of lessons. Why does the cabinet deviate from the distinction that exists for years between activities followed by all pupils and activities followed by specific groups of pupils? There is a risk that the legislative proposal will make it more difficult for schools to comply with the standard. The SGP recognises the problems of monitoring customisation, but the solution currently contained in the bill seems to be worse than the ailment. The SGP chooses the line to focus the monitoring of educational time on the programme which is mandatory for all pupils and to focus the monitoring of customisation on the content of the offer. That is why I would like to receive a response to the Bishop/Van Meenen amendment. The bill announces a modernisation of teaching time. Then you expect schools to be given more space to work on quality. This can be done, for example, by giving educational teams more space to prepare lessons jointly, in consultation. However, the legislative proposal makes this more difficult by laying down that at least 189 days of education must be provided. With this standard, there is little room for substantive activities and the creation of a quality mark in the rota-free days. It is also at odds with the desire to steer less tightly on the number of teaching hours per year. I would like to hear a response to the Van Meenen/Bisschop amendment, which provides for greater flexibility on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr Bishop spoke about monitoring customisation and said that this should focus exclusively on the content of the offer. This means that these students can be locked up in a kind of computer room with a digital programme, which is quite nice and of good quality, under the guidance of a janitor or someone from the cafeteria or something, as long as something happens. He remembers: the hoardings. This clears the way for bumping.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u17	I don't think so, because you can make customization demands in terms of teaching and teaching. There is a difference, for example, between 15 and 20 years ago. There are now, compared to then, much more opportunities to use digital learning tools and support, for example. If you set it up properly, you can offer students a program rather than the entire program, but a surplus within the required education time; that is why they can invest in improving their performance in subjects they are weak in, while otherwise they participate a bit for bacon and beans in that third hour in a course they are very good at. Then they'd better spend that time on their difficult subjects. That's what we're talking about by looking for customization. So that's something other than hooping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u18	I appreciate that, too, but why do you want to explicitly exclude those pedagogical-eductic qualities, which you do demand for this customization, from inspection supervision? Why don't you just take the customization underneath that? That lieutenant can just look at that, can't he? What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u19	That's no problem at all. However, it is important to make a clear distinction between the total offer, which should in principle follow every student, and... I can see from the light on the speaker chair that my speaking time would be over, but I am afraid that the clock has gone through the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, the minutes have gone by, and the clerk keeps a clean record. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u21	Luckily, that's a bit off my chest, otherwise I would have to stop this interruption abruptly. That would, of course, be a pity for Mr Beertema. You start with the distinction from the basic offer. In addition, you have opportunities as a school to offer a package where students can follow their own learning path more personalised. But you can keep both under inspection. That doesn't have to be a problem in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u22	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm getting close to a round. The SGP is pleased that the cabinet gives a generous explanation of the obligation under the compulsory education law to visit a school. The cabinet also states that there are sufficient opportunities to provide an offer for students who are unable to follow the entire programme at school. The SGP has two questions about this. The Cabinet stresses, on the one hand, that distance learning opportunities mainly offer educational space at system level as an offer accessible to all pupils, while, on the other hand, it states that this can provide a solution for specific pupils, for example in case of chronic constraints. What's the deal with that? I'd like a response. The cabinet describes that an educational programme should be under the responsibility of a qualified person, but how does it work for a student who is at home half the time? Does a partial exemption from compulsory schooling, possibly accompanied by a kind of compulsory education for the exempted period, make much more sense in many cases? I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. The inspection has provided an assessment framework for the school year 2013/2014 which can be used under education time. The SGP is keen to hear whether this framework will remain in force for the coming years. Schools therefore have at least a directive on the organisation of their programmes. This also responds to Mr Beertema's remark just now. This also gives the inspection an opportunity to ensure that the personalised part of the education period is actually used responsibly. Schools should indicate in the school guide the structure of the education programme and the hours of teaching associated with it. It does not always appear to be the case that the school mentions the number of hours of parental leave per year on the basis of the law. Does the Secretary of State also consider that parents should be given sufficient information to enable them to make a calculation themselves, and does the Secretary of State consider that this is currently sufficiently regulated? I come to a conclusion and I go back to the breach of confidence that has been greatly deepened as a result of years of discussion about the time of education. This is the time to try to restore this relationship of trust with education generously. I think that if we express and express here, even in the decision that is finally taken, we want to build on the confidence in the ability and will of schools to live up to the time of education that has been given as a directive and thus give a quality boost to education, then we will get the quality impulse that we are all in favour of. I don't think you realize quality with rules and new frameworks and demands imposed from above, but I believe that you achieve quality by addressing, challenging and inviting professionals to do what they're trained to do. I believe that this way you can make the quality impact in education. This requires a slightly different way of thinking, but I hope that we will all be able to do so. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u24	Your last remark has called for an interruption in Mr Bertema's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u25	This is a very warm paragraph for all the administrators and school managers in the country who have been cheating on education time for years, perhaps decades, who have been cheating on education money, who have stalled students with janitors, who have been cheating on the replacement of sick teachers, who have postponed vacancies. That was the situation. I think it is nice that Mr Bishop says: we are now going to give them a warm hand and restore confidence. But I hope that the confidence that Mr Bishop has expressed in a somewhat naive way to the school sector will not be ashamed of me. I'd like to give him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u26	I didn't really hear a question, but I'm obviously giving you an opportunity to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u27	At the very least, I should like to thank Mr Beertema very much for this heartfelt wish. I would like to join in that. If you give clear and unambiguous guidelines, you give enough tools, including to teachers and school leaders. I refuse to wipe all those school leaders and all those teachers in one heap. It's been washing out. Fortunately, that percentage is relatively small; let us also mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u28	I see Mr Bertema coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u29	Is he sufficiently challenged?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u30	He's been challenged enough. I will give him a brief opportunity to respond to this, because he has only committed one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u31	You are giving him an opportunity to take a equally strong stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u32	But this is not the idea of the interruptions, I'll give you a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u33	Well, that's a shame, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. It's not true that I'm putting all the school leaders and managers together. There are a lot of good, hardworking school leaders, who are very helpful to the staff and to the school, but there are always exceptions. That is what we are being called upon to do. We have a responsibility for that and we have to take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u35	You have made your point, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u36	I agree with Mr Beertema on this point. I don't think you should operate generically with a massive measure for the whole field of education. Those exceptions, the people who are underperforming and who are ruining things, must be surgically seized, focusing on the wrong policy that is being pursued there. The rest of the education system must be given greater scope within the framework that we lay down here. I think we can agree on this point, but the consequence of this is that as a government we must be cautious and only make available a toolbox to deal with those who are financed from the general budget but who do not comply with the reasonably foreseeable performance or who sail around it. The rest of the education should not be burdened with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. The bill on the modernisation of the hourly standard can be supported by the CDA; let me start with that. A number of years ago there was great social unrest because the number of hours of teaching in many schools was completely inadequate. There wasn't enough teaching. Parents were very worried about that. A lot of classes went out. Later, students protested against the bloggers. The standard for teaching time had to be met. Students were placed in gymnasiums and auditoriums. Under the inspiring leadership of the janitor, so-called teaching time was realized. We can still recognize those images. There was a lot of anger with parents and students. It has ensured that the government has become more strict on education time. I think this has been necessary, too. But now there's a new situation. The strict enforcement of recent years has had a positive effect, namely a better education time, but has also had an impact on trust between education and government. Mr Bishop has also mentioned this. Perhaps it was more about quantity than quality. That can't be the intention. In the new situation we are going to, there is another way of maintaining the standard of hours. Schools that achieve good quality are not so strictly treated according to the exact hours standard we set with each other. Schools which, on the other hand, do not deliver this quality will still be severely addressed. That is an attitude that suits this time of year and which has the support of the CDA. Trust where things are going well, but where there is underperformance we remain close to it. This modernisation ensures more horizontal accountability over quality. The hours standard is accounted for to the parents. Parents have, through the co-determination council, participation in the organization of education and in the implementation of the hourly standard. In the end, it's not about quantity, it's about quality. The CDA still has a few concerns and questions to the Secretary of State. Firstly, on the regulatory burden and secondly, on the flexibility of the hourly standard. On the regulatory burden, I ask the Secretary of State if the new way of registering this time through Windows for Accountability is already sufficiently secured. Or should schools ultimately answer to the inspection in a different way besides Windows for Accountability? This will result in a build-up of different forms of accountability. I have not yet made that quite clear in the written debate. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. Then I come to the flexibility and future stability of this standard of hours. We hear from the Secretary of State that much is possible. At the same time, we hear from schools that they regularly encounter blockages of things that are not possible in practice. How, for example, are we going to deal with digitalisation and distance education; things that are increasingly being developed in addition to the classical forms of education? How do we deal with situations of shrinkage and drop in the number of pupils in schools that want to organise education near home in the first years and at a higher distance in other years, at another school? Is that possible later, even with this hour standard? I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that there will be no more fires in the future. The number of hours per course is determined instead of the number of hours the learner receives. Students are no longer required to attend school without taking lessons. That is a good thing and a development which we very much welcome. Finally, I have a question. What to do in the event of frequent drop-out, which was once the reason to start the discussion about the higher hours standard? It sounds very nice: as long as the school offers good quality, the inspection keeps less strict on the hours standard. The CDA agrees with that. But what should be done if parents and students feel that there are too many lessons, that the quality is not sufficiently guaranteed or that the lessons are not adequately completed at that school? In what way and to what organization can parents and students turn to get that school back on track again? How can it be ensured that pupils receive not only sufficient quality, but also sufficient quantitative education? In the end, that's what it's all about. I'd like to get another confirmation from the Secretary of State on how he's gonna set that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. In 2006 there was a regular drop-out in schools. At that time, the Committee on Education, chaired by Clemens Cornielje, one of my highly valued predecessors and spokesperson for education for the VVD, recommended setting an hour standard. This hourly standard finally entered into force on 1 August 2013. Now that schools work with this hourly standard, it appears to have had a quantitative effect. Instead of providing attractive education in terms of content, schools mainly started to count hours. In order to make better use of the available teaching hours and to reduce the administrative burden associated with the current situation, the National Education Agreement agreed to modernise that teaching time, without abandoning the hourly standard as such. The VVD group has always indicated that it is not so much about an hour or less, but above all about the quality of the filling of those hours. We don't want students hanging in the mall all afternoon. For the VVD it is important that students receive decent, but also sufficient lessons. The VVD is in favour of this change of law, because it gives schools more space to better organise education, but within strict frameworks. This is also in line with the contribution we have made to the budget debate. In that debate I indicated that the VVD opts for education of robust quality, with room for innovation and quality improvement. The legislative proposal gives schools more room to organise education in a more focused and modern way, which can lead to more deepening of education. In addition, there will be more opportunities for setting up excellence programmes, for example, or for involving the business community in parts of the curriculum. The education programme is now leading responsibility. Schools will soon be required to consult an education programme each year containing the amount of hours that have been budgeted and the hours that have actually been created. This refers to the average of a pupil following the relevant education programme. My concern, however, is that good students will probably have fewer hours because they can. As far as the VVD is concerned, they should not be finished with the regular education programme before they can go home, but should be given additional challenges at the top of the regular programme. In the opinion of the VVD, the latter also fits perfectly with the State Secretary's top talent approach. So we'd like to ask him how he looks at this. The legislative proposal provides for the participation council to agree to the choice of the education programme. For the VVD, however, it is even more important that the school is transparent about this choice to parents and students. As far as the VVD is concerned, not only does this information go to the mr, it is also included in the annual report. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to take this point when he starts implementing our motion that was adopted in the budget and calls for schools to publish annual reports and inspection reports on their website. The transparency of these choices to parents and students is only a first step in terms of the VVD. Even more important is the satisfaction of parents and students with the choices made by the school. Many schools are already carrying out regular parental and/or pupil satisfaction surveys. We would like all schools to do so and to make this information transparent. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is the real outcome parameter to which we should like to check the functioning of this legislative change. For schools, this could lead to further reduction of administrative burdens, as these data could also be used by the inspection in the context of risk-based monitoring. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mrs Straus raises an interesting point in the context of horizontal accountability of surveys or surveys of parents and pupils. Isn't that contrary to an hour standard? Suppose parents and pupils would be extremely satisfied with education, what is the meaning of a standard? It doesn't matter at all in their consideration, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u40	It is also a question of giving a guarantee to parents about what they can at least count on. Parents need to be clear about what they can expect from education at the front. That is why I think it is very good that this legislative amendment should include minimum requirements in the system. In any case, that is the starting point on which parents can be satisfied. You can measure satisfaction by asking someone if he's satisfied with anything. If those who do not know what to expect, is that a very different assessment of satisfaction than when you say to someone: if you can expect this, how satisfied are you about what you get? That's another consideration. In any case, we believe it is important that these guarantees and minimum requirements are laid down in the law as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u41	I imagine that parents are mainly interested in and satisfied with a school if their child gets a diploma there, gets good guidance and can then do a good follow-up education. These seem to me to be relevant aspects for the satisfaction of parents. I have never spoken to a parent who has made his judgment of a school depend on the number of hours of teaching, regardless of whether he knew how many there were.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u42	Parents also think it is important that their child is offered a certain structure and a certain program. Therefore, it is important that you communicate the expectations of the school's educational program very clearly to parents. As far as I'm concerned, you're adding minimum requirements. Perhaps, once their child has been in education for a number of years, parents will form an image of what they might expect. I believe, however, that we should build these minimum requirements and guarantees into the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr Van Meenen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u44	The suggestion made by Mrs Straus' reply was already in Mr Beertema's story: if there is no standard of hours, there would be no structure in education, no timetable and so on. Those are indeed structures that parents expect. But parents don't expect a schedule that's exactly 1,000 hours in a class year, do they? Isn't it about what it's about?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u45	In the end, of course, that's what this is all about. That is why it is nice that this bill does not contain the very strict rule that you have to have exactly as many hours a year. Parents do find it important to know that their children follow a certain pattern, a certain program at school. This programme is the basis on which parents can base their satisfaction. If you ask me personally: my children are in primary education and not in secondary education, which is what this is about, but it is also very important that parents know in advance, for example, when schedule-free days are. It is very important to know this in good time and it is also important that those dates are not changed during the year or that free days are added. That kind of thing is important to parents to know, and that certainly contributes to their satisfaction. I'd like to give the Chamber another quote. "It is the responsibility of the school to offer students an inspiring and challenging education programme. In doing so, the school is primarily accountable to parents and students for the realization and quality of teaching time." This quote is the main conclusion of the Cornielje Committee. As far as the VVD is concerned, this 2014 is still up to date. The VVD sees this further modernisation of the hourly standard as a huge opportunity for schools to set up their educational programme qualitatively and contemporaryly and make their own choices. As far as we are concerned, the key to this is and remains the satisfaction of parents and students with these choices. After all, they're the ones before we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Chairman. This is a beautiful day. Perhaps it would have been if we had not had this legal treatment, but for me it gives extra shine to the day. When I think back to my struggle on the question of whether I would go into politics, we go back a couple of years, I could think of a thousand reasons not to become a full-time politician. After all, it was so nice to work in education. I have done it anyway, and that is partly due to the fact that I was extremely concerned, just as Mr Bishop has just so graphically described the concerns I had about the gap between education and government, which was actually widening. Once I made the decision and started campaigning, I was asked regularly what I stood for. Well, for opportunities for young people, for space, for trust, for more horizontal accountability, participation, you name it all. These are, of course, vague concepts, so I was often asked: what is the first thing you would like to do when you enter the Chamber? The answer to that was very simple for me: abolishing the 1,040 hours standard. For me, that was the stunner's stone, the symbol of exactly the wrong discussion that was taking place in this Chamber at the time about education. Quantity was discussed, but not quality, when it should be. The day we were sworn in here, the ink of the previous cabinet bill was still wet, but I thought we'd take our chances anyway. Tomorrow it will be exactly two years since I tabled my motion to revise the hours standard, together with CDA, SGP, SP, ChristenUnion, 50PLUS, GroenLinks and the PvdA. Today we see the result of that. You will understand that I am pleased with that, also because we are preventing Malie fields from flooding again. And then they were really full.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u47	This introduction raised a question for Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u48	If that maleized 1,040 hours standard was the reason for Mr Van Meenen to campaign at D66, then I don't understand anything about that anymore. In fact, I have looked up the savaged amendment which is the cause of this jam and all this fuss. It is Mr Jan de Vries' amendment of 8 March 2006, supported by CDA, VVD, GroenLinks and... D66! Why did you join the wrong party, Mr Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u49	D66 was always my party. As a Member, I have also said a great deal about this. Everyone is entitled to their own mistakes, but you can read in all sorts of places that I have been firmly opposed to this proposal in those years, even though it came from my own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr Van Meenen's saying that is easiest. So he stayed with D66, despite the 1,040 hour standard that was the rock of shock. Then you must love a lot of parties. Anyway, I'll leave that to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u51	I especially love education very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u52	Let's not mess around. Is Mr Van Meenen therefore prepared to say that, as far as he was concerned, it was a major mistake of his party, Mrs Lambrechts, to be precise, to support this amendment which caused so many problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u53	I don't have the amendment here for me. I do know that at that time there were concerns about the amount of teaching time. By the way, it was much more about teaching out than about the programmed lesson time. Eventually, that landed in a bill. I remember following the treatment of that directly. That was really dramatic. I have never considered exactly how that happened here. I saw only one assignment for myself in this respect: back to space, trust and customization for students. We are taking a step in that today, and I welcome that. With the modernisation of the hourly standard, schools will be given more room to make their own choices and to set priorities. In this way, schools can offer more customization to pupils or free time for innovation and for improving the quality of education. At the same time, as far as my group is concerned, this is only the first step in the right direction. I keep repeating that quantity does not lead to quality. The schools in Finland provide proof of this every day. Again for clarity: in the first nine years of education in Finland 3,000 hours less contact time than in the Netherlands. These are three complete years of learning in the Netherlands. However, the results are at least as good. This is mainly due to the fact that this time is not being wasted, but is being spent on working on quality, on the culture of improvement that we are currently thinking about in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr Beertema had already announced it. He has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u55	First of all, about Finland. I do not think Finland is comparable to the Netherlands at all. Finland has a completely different education history, a different social structure and a different immigration history. Mr Van Meenen knows that too. So all these comparisons with Finland simply do not apply. At the time, it was much more about the problem of graduation. Mrs Straus has already mentioned it and Mr Van Meenen is now reporting it. Those parents were upset that these students were walking down the street in the mall, and so on. What will Mr Van Meenen's idea add to the fight against this drop-out? As far as I'm concerned, it only gets worse because he gets all the structure out of the school. The rosters go down, the class band goes down and even the holidays go down, if it's up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u56	This is too much to answer at once. This is pure bullshit; I do not say that to Mr Beertema easily. Why would a school with an hour standard about complete training stop making schedules? If that's an invitation from the PVV, I'll ask you back. Structures continue to exist; the number of hours decreases. Let me ask you another question. If the problem at the time was the drop-out we obviously agree on this because of illness and because of insufficient replacement, why is it translated into an hour standard that is the same for each school and for each student, where the inspection day in, day out with calculators after student and teacher to see if they had enough lessons? Is that the answer to the class dropout? There is still that class dropout, because schools have to put their energy too much into this kind of administrative nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u57	We do not ask questions again in interruptions, but Mr Beertema may ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u58	Let me then ask to what extent the quality of education will be improved by reducing teaching hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u59	The intention is not to give less teaching hours, the intention is to give better teaching hours. We have had that debate recently. That requires that the teacher gets room to work on his own improvement. There is certainly a great deal of education in primary and secondary education and far too little thought is being given to it. That room has to be there. To achieve that kind of thing, you have to dare say that sometimes it is better to think about education for an hour than to represent it in the same way that we did 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u60	I just allowed it, too, so I'm allowing a very short interruption now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u61	Mr Van Meenen actually says, even in his initial reaction to my speech, that he thinks that is nonsense. I say then: the classes continue to exist, the annual groups continue to exist, the schedules continue to exist and the holidays continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u62	In any case, there is no reason to amend this bill if a school chooses to do so. If a school does choose to do so, it's up to him to decide for himself. But the schools do have to explain to parents and students why they set up education as they do. They have a right of assent; I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u63	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u64	After all, together with a strong participation council, schools can make their own choices about the time of education. I have therefore tabled an amendment, together with Mr Bishop of the SGP, to give schools greater flexibility in terms of the number of teaching days. I would ask for a concrete measure for schools to make time available to work on education renewal and improvement. My colleague from the SGP has already said a few things about the abolition of customised hours, which I would like to join. The Secretary of State has recently launched a discussion on the future of the curriculum: what knowledge and skills students need in the future and how the curriculum should be adapted accordingly. I would ask the Secretary of State, Mr Rog, to reflect on the concept of 'educational time' and how that will change in the future. Does distance teaching fit within the educational time frames? Does it count when a student at home behind his laptop takes a lesson from a teacher? Does it matter to count on education time or learn a student at school or at home via his iPod? What does this mean for the hours standard in the future? I also ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the further flexibilisation of courses and their significance for the hourly standard. Students can already take exams at a higher level. What hours do they have to meet? The level at which they eventually get the diploma, or the higher level? What if students are allowed to take courses and take examinations at a lower level? What if in a few years' time a student does half of his subjects at the havo level and the other half at the vwo level? Which hours should then be met? In short, does the Secretary of State agree with me that in the long term this development will put pressure on the standard of education as we now know it? Rightly so, it seems to me. In the original motion, it was about customization. I'd like to show the Secretary of State another mirror. Recently he said in an interview in Elsevier: "I understand the feeling of overload among many teachers, but it sometimes also asks something from the teacher himself. If you have to do things you don't think they're gonna want to do, stop it. Just do what you're sure of: this will help my students. Don't do the rest. I'm not very good with the complaining culture in education, against it I don't see the point. But just stop it. Come on. Come on. Say, "I want to spend my time with the children." Say that at school to your colleagues and to your boss." I think I will repeat this question again, depending on the answer I have now. Does this mean that teachers and schools can also look at the hours standard if they themselves have a better idea of meeting their pupils? Then how does the Secretary of State look at that? I also refer to the discussion we had in the MBO. We had a very tight standard: if you were only one hour away from that, you would lose the entire funding of your education. We've given up on that. We have said: there is a standard, comply or explain, so explain if you do it differently. If that's a good story with good returns: agree. Would the Secretary of State be prepared to take that step towards the future for the rest of the education? So far as I'm concerned, it's still a beautiful day, and that's what I wish you all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u65	Unlike D66 in the past, D66 is today the party that fights hardest against hourly standards. That's interesting. How does Mr Van Meenen view this bill? He makes a big plea against hourly standards and this bill maintains an hour standard. Does he not actually agree with this and vote against this bill, or does he come forward with amendments? How's he handling this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u66	I certainly won't. In fact, I'm happy with this law. It is a really good step forward and I hear that everywhere in the field; everyone feels this as a liberation. I'm looking a little further, too, because that's what I think I do. I see all kinds of developments, including those we are initiating here in the Chamber, which will raise new questions and possibly ask for new freedoms. All this is done in the interests of the students. For me, this is a very good start to the discussion that we will have with each other much more often in order to further improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u67	This law is therefore a step forward, but in Mr Van Meenen's ideal world there are no hourly standards for schools. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr Van Dijk knows me as an opponent of any Hague standard, because it always fails to meet those who ultimately make up the education system, and that is the student. Every child in this country is different and requires their own approach. That is a very tricky thing, which is a huge task for teachers, but it is our job to facilitate it as much as possible. We do that with money, but we also do it with space to meet that. This kind of standard gets in the way. The current standard is already a considerable extension, as people feel, but I know that it cannot be enough for the future if we want to give more form and content to pupils' customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I can be brief about this bill: good plan. The 1,040 hours standard and the accumulations that resulted have always been against the wishes of the Labour Party. In 2006, the Labour Party opposed the 1,040 hours standard. We were one of the few parties who voted against then, along with the SP. The initiators of the 1,040 hour standard, D66, VVD and CDA, probably had it in mind differently, but the measure really was a thing. Fortunately, we now have the support of a broad majority in the Chamber to put an end to the fires. Education should not be about as many lessons as possible, but about the best possible lesson. I am therefore very pleased to note that this agreement from the coalition agreement has now been transposed into the law that we are discussing today. It is good news for the schools, which I visit weekly, and which often sigh and support because they want to be engaged in offering good education, rather than counting the hours in education. Discharge is a good first step. It offers schools more room for interpretation, distribution and planning of hours for a didactic interpretation that suits the students, the school and the subject matter. With other courses, projects, e-learning, individually, in a classroom or in a classroom-like setting teaching and teaching, and for maximum space for customization for students. For acceleration or additional support. For children who have to make extra flight hours because they start lagging behind and for children who can work more independently to deepen themselves. Not every year and every student 1,040 hours, but to look at this per course is a very nice step for which I would like to compliment the Secretary of State. This does not prevent students from receiving the guidance they need for their development. It may happen that schools are failing in this. Kids have to make miles and teachers shouldn't get overloaded. However, the 1,040 hours standard does not provide any guarantee of good education, as has been shown. Quality must be central instead of quantity. As long as schools provide excellent education, a hard standard of hours only creates unnecessary paperwork at the expense of education. All in all, it is a good development that the rigid hours standard will in future give way to greater confidence in schools and teachers. Once again, I am pleased for all teachers and school leaders, but above all for the pupils, that this measure is now rapidly dropping. Still, I wonder if we're here already. I don't think so, because there is still a standard. In the long term, I want to move towards a situation where we have even more regard for quality and even less regard for quantity. With Learning Together, we have taken a first step towards giving teachers back control. Politics outlines the contours and the teachers, who form the daily practice, regain control. What room does the Secretary of State see for working towards a situation in which the hourly standard is released even more? We do not have to do that today or tomorrow, but let us say that we want to work towards it. What safeguards are needed to prevent a purely efficiency check, which is causing students to suffer from insufficient support and which causes teachers to become overburdened or to receive a smaller appointment? How can there be room for continuing training, for preparing lessons together and for sitting in the back of the class together? In this way, the quality of education can be improved. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities for this? Can he carry out a future exploration himself or could he perhaps ask the Education Council to identify the possibilities, the challenges and the opportunities? What happens in other countries? How do they deal with teaching time there? Do they give teachers more control in other countries and let them design their own education, which gives teachers more professional pride? How do they do that? The monitoring of the number of teaching hours given will be redesigned. It is only when education is below par that the number of hours of teaching is considered. The Labour Party is in favour of risk-based supervision of this point. However, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how we can ensure that, if education is good, there are no more hours to be tarfed. Is the inspection sufficiently prepared for this? Is she gonna go with this? Quality must also be at the heart of this process. Schools should not still be pushed into a straitjacket. What has the Secretary of State done in concrete terms to prevent the inspection being delayed? The Ministry is in the process of a dust combing operation to reduce paperwork. As I said earlier, I would like to see a broom through these administrative burdens. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he sees any additional possibilities to reduce the burden of paperwork. For the sake of short, I agree with Mr Rog's question from the CDA Group. He asked where parents and students can go when the quality of education is below par. Of course, there has to be a guarantee for that. My final point concerns continuing training. Individual teachers have little influence on the time when training is offered. For us, it is not always self-evident that continuing training should take place under teaching time. I would ask the Secretary of State to call on the training institutions in a feasible way for attention to be paid to the times when continuing training is offered, so that it does not have to lead to a lack of training. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u70	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. The Secretary of State has asked for a short suspension to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this legislative proposal will put an end to years of discussion about education time and, above all, the murmuring about it. Several Members of Parliament have cited the route that had to be taken. In the end, this has led to a legislative proposal that many parties may not have been very happy about afterwards: teachers, parents and teachers. Even some of the parties who thought this was a good idea at the time have indicated that it is a bit too much. I therefore think it would be a good idea to look at this law again and ask the question: can it not be made more modern so that it is more up-to-date? Recently, I spoke to a teacher from secondary school. That was not just any teacher; it was Jasper Rijpma, who was very recently appointed teacher of the year for secondary education. He said that, given his new role, he had just read through the bill and that he actually thought it was revolutionary. He didn't mean revolutionary in the sense of that time, which meant that the Malieveld was filling up and everyone was taking action. He called the proposal revolutionary because it gives a lot of space at school and because it offers room for customization for students and for making their own educational choices. Students benefit from this and teachers and school leaders too. In secondary education, I can taste enthusiasm for this. I can tell that from teachers, but also from a wider perspective, because for example, the LAKS has also reacted very positively. I hope that with this enthusiasm we will be able to do something to restore the confidence that may have been somewhat damaged on this point. Well, based on that, we might be able to make a fresh start. I think we can do that with the proposal now before us. I think Jasper Rijpma was right indeed that this bill offers a lot of room to make motivated choices and to offer students tailor-made work. Let me give you some examples. There will be more scope for innovation in relation to different forms of education and tailor-made work on the educational and non-innovative didactic design of education. There are different ways of learning well. This can be done in the traditional way with an inspiring teacher for the classroom, but students can also be inspired in very different ways and helped to get the best out of themselves. Examples include distance learning, extracurricular learning, challenging projects, internships, the use of MOOCs (massive open online courses), talent programs, pre-university classes and so on. The beauty of this bill is that we no longer distinguish between regular teaching hours and custom hours, but that we actually say that all hours in education should be customised. This bill provides scope for variation and content. There is scope for tailor-made work, including in the field of educational content and the organisation of the education programme. Not every student has to follow exactly the same program through an identical schedule. That can be a bit more contemporary and varied. Customization is offered with regard to differentiation in hours. The number of hours pupils follow can also sometimes vary. One learner needs less time to learn the lesson than the other. Why would you have to follow compulsory math for three hours a week if you've already figured out what's going on after one lesson? Then you can use the other two hours, as I say to Mrs Straus, better for floors, for other programs. This makes education challenging again. The bill gives schools more room to better organise education, but within clear frameworks. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Straus. It is, of course, and continues to be, a law with provisions that schools must comply with. In particular, it concerns the hours standard, the day standard and the positioning of the participation council.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u72	I actually hear the same story as I read in the explanatory statement. It's a warm plea for more modern education, whatever that may be. However, the Secretary of State always loses himself in rhetoric that has no meaning: individualization, flexibilisation, customization. We're about to have a class of 27 students with one teacher. So how's that teacher gonna shape all these individual trajectories? After all, we have just heard from Mr Van Meenen that the class concept and the rosters simply continue to exist. So those students are all coming 50 minutes for that teacher once or twice. This teacher apparently has an entire cart with individual trajectories behind him. Per student, he checks the trajectory. He's gonna give them jobs or I don't know what. Then that hour is over and they're not even at work yet. What's this gonna look like in practice? That's my big concern. Because I don't believe in it that much. Teachers can't handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u73	I will be able to explain this when I tell you exactly what we mean by teaching time, how it will work in the classroom and how it will be monitored by the inspection. In practice, this is already taking shape in a number of schools. I invite Mr Beertema to be open to new forms of education, which, unlike supply-driven education, are based on what pupils can handle, what they ask, what they want and where their talents lie. A certain number of hours per week are currently required and all 30 pupils receive the same course at exactly the same time. That may be education as it looked thirty or forty years ago, but today we can offer much more variety and respond much more to the individual talents of our students.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u74	I think this is too generic an assessment of education as it was traditionally given. According to the Minister, that education was supply-driven, but that is not true at all. As I said, I worked in education for 34 years. From the frameworks that were there at the time, I did indeed work very demand-driven. Every good teacher provides demand-driven education. He can offer that. The problem lies not so much in modernising all kinds of things, but above all in the competences of teachers. It doesn't matter at all what system is being used, an hour system or another system, the quality of the teachers is at the heart of everything. The proposed procedure will not change that. On the contrary, that intervention only makes the teacher more desperate, because it has all those individualized pathways that he cannot man at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Beertema is right that this bill is not about the quality of teachers. We are doing a lot of other things in this area. In fact, in this cabinet period we invest a lot of extra money in teachers, precisely because the teacher is one of the factors determining good education. In the legislative proposal we offer the space requested by teachers and schools to respond more to the variety they want to offer. The current law assumes a fixed number of hours per year, shot, not per training but per pupil. As a result, the situation has arisen in which the inspection visits the schools to check agendas and check whether that number of hours has actually been met. The question is whether this still fits in with modern education. I come across students who say that they have mastered the teaching material within an hour and wonder why they have to take part in the rest of the hours. The current law prescribes that. Students and teachers say that they can do this in a better and more challenging way. I'd like to offer them that space. All in all, given the legal standards and the time of education contained in the legislative proposal, I think that the legislative proposal has struck a good balance between different interests. The demand for more space is being met, but at the same time there is clarity about some of the frameworks, including the standards I have just mentioned. Some of the speakers asked whether we could not afford more room for manoeuvre in the area of standards. I will deal with that along four lines. I start with the hour standard as such, the quantitative side of the story. After that, I will clarify what is meant by "educational time" as well as the qualitative aspect of "innovation" and what space there is. I shall then turn to the questions raised by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen on the standard of days. They have tabled an amendment on this subject to which I would like to respond. Finally, I will answer a number of questions on supervisory and accountability issues. Then I'm sure there'll be a few things left that I can take under the last block of "other." The standard as laid down in the legislative proposal is based on an hourly standard per training instead of an hourly standard per pupil. All pupils should be given the opportunity to follow a programme with the normative number of hours. That is therefore a programme which, in a sense, complies with the hourly standard. There may be good educational reasons to deviate from that. That will be possible now. I refer, for example, to a standard per course rather than a standard per grade. This gives flexibility, by not having to meet an hourly standard of 1,000 hours per year. Education time can be planned more flexibly: in junior grade perhaps a little more and in the fourth grade perhaps a little less. It can also be divided and filled out differently. All pupils should be given the opportunity to follow a programme with the normative number of hours of education. This can be completed in different ways, with different subjects and different forms of education, whether innovative or not, etc. The basis is that each student reaches the total number of hours of the entire course. A four-year VMBO course must be completed in 3.700 hours, a five-year HAVO course contains 4,700 hours and a six-year VWO course must be completed in 5,700 hours. I would like to give schools with this bill the opportunity to offer actual tailor-made work to students. This also concerns the amount of hours of education. Students may need more time for one subject than the number of regular hours, while they need less time for other subjects. This bill will make that possible. It is up to the school, and in particular the teacher, to determine whether the pupils who do not need to follow the regular programme benefit from an education programme with fewer hours or whether they use hours released for example for deepening, broadening, enrichment or additional support. There may therefore be a derogation for pupils from the basic programme of training which complies with the hourly standard of training if there are good educational reasons for doing so. This makes all teaching time customized. The question has been asked as to what exactly is eligible. What is the room for schools when it comes to digitalisation, for example? Mr Rog asked that question. The legal frameworks for education time, with some criteria set out in the proposal, provide the global frameworks for school's own choices. This means that a school can choose, that a school can fill in and use digitalisation. That is primarily a question that needs to be answered at school level. In the current situation distance learning may count for those 60 hours of customization, in the new situation schools themselves determine that. This is, of course, done in conjunction with the participation council. In the end, parents and apprenticeships must be able to agree to it. We have been asked what this means for shrinking regions. Shrimp regions are not specifically mentioned in this bill. In this sense it is generic, it applies to all regions in the Netherlands. In my view, it gives more room for flexibility and tailor-made work, which are also very much needed in the shrinking regions. Mr Beertema asked whether a lower standard would make hours less binding. Are students still getting enough structure? I think this is still the case in the current legislative proposal. We give schools more space and more flexibility. How will that eventually land in the classroom or at a school? I think that such a school, within the legal framework that we offer here and after the conversations with parents, teachers and students about it, will proceed to the making of schedules, teaching tables and the arrangement of the week. What do you do when and exactly what is expected of students and teachers? At the same time, there is also more room to deviate from this for individual pupils. I have just given the example that this can be done with a gear. Some kids might need a little extra time somewhere. That space is creating more. I think it should be possible, if possible, to find a good balance between, on the one hand, the structure which is naturally desirable in working and, on the other hand, the space needed to ensure that education is in line with the needs of pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u76	Will the Secretary of State come to the conclusion of the education programme or can I ask my question now? He says we can do that now. I am in favour of getting rid of the 1,040-hour cramped standard of education. In my opinion, we are quick to agree on this. The question is how to prevent the clapper from going back to the other side and that a school does deal very anarchistically with the interpretation of the teaching time, in which students say that they receive very little lessons. What means do they have to improve this implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u77	In the end, this starts with a number of anchors that we retain here in the law. There was a discussion about whether it could be done with less than 1,040 hours. I will respond to that later because Mrs Ypma has also asked for it. We'll assume a base. The same applies to the number of days. So it's not like it's gonna be freedom, happiness, and we're gonna let go of everything. Secondly, the pupils and the parents Mr Van Dijk is talking about, of course, have a very firm voice in the whole. I know that it is always an important point from Mr Van Dijk that Mr Van Dijk should be able to exercise his influence. This mr has a right of assent to the development of the education programme. This also applies to the debate on which parts we now rank under education time and which perhaps not. So that can only be achieved with that agreement, including those who are ultimately at the heart of it. Thirdly, if a school deviates from that, of course we have a different situation. It is, of course, the great fear of how you deal with class failure or with a plan that is not being fulfilled. Then you're talking about schools that actually don't do what they promise to their mr and, in a sense, to us in the accountability of spending of educational money. In that case, parents and students must of course be able to go somewhere. Always start your school, I say, put it on your school board and your mr. If it isn't resolved there, then eventually, you can also map it out at the inspection. They can then see what happens and whether schools comply with the agreements they have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u78	I understand that, but there is still a situation in which the participation council and the school management agree that a large number of teaching hours can be filled in independently. So maybe it's hypothetical, but then there could be a situation where pupils and perhaps parents disagree, but regrettably they have to find that the mr has agreed, so they don't break any rules. Where else could this student go?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u79	Now it is becoming very hypothetical, but I also assume that school boards and school leaders make sensible choices and that they are kept sharp by their own teachers, students and parents in a mr. That's not something that stays in a small room. Whatever is being discussed there should also eventually be published in a school guide. Mrs Straus also said that she considered transparency to be important in a broader sense. What a school makes of choice must be published. That's gotta be open. Parents and students should be able to move actively. Even then, there's a time when you can ring the bell. In addition, there is an inspection to ensure that the choices made are never at the expense of quality. If this is to the detriment of quality, there is also a reason for the inspection to intervene. Suppose all these conditions are met: education is well spent, the mr is well involved and agreed to it. It is also a question of how it is then shaped in practice. If it also produces quality, then the results of students remain at level, but parents or pupils are dissatisfied in individual cases, then a parent or pupil is free to ask: does this school still fit in with me? In the Netherlands you are not obliged to go to one school or another. That last step is a very drastic step. In my view, there are a lot of opportunities for parents and students to talk with about how things are at school.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Beertema also has a question for you. I ask both the spokesmen and the Secretary of State to try to be brief. This applies both to the interruptions and to the answers. Let's use about three interruptions. We'll do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u81	The Secretary of State just touched a little bit more on the practice of education. He talked about the student in the classroom and the teacher with those individual trajectories. Nevertheless, I remain confused about this statement by the Secretary of State: every school hour becomes a tailor-made hour. I cannot separate myself from the image of the teacher with that cart, with all those documents behind him for all individualized trajectories. There's no other way. If "every hour is a custom hour" is not a rhetoric, but becomes a real practice, then it can only be that the class association is broken. Then students in all kinds of different groups will split up in that school and then the teacher has to go after it in one way or another. That is the modernisation envisaged by the Secretary of State. That's possible now, but it wasn't possible before. Let me get this straight. I have a brief question about the parents who are less involved in the school. There are a lot of them; so does the Secretary of State. The parents who know it all, they'll get there. But it's about the parents who are hard to get into that school. They do not discuss individualised pathways. That's gonna be a whole different story. How is a school supposed to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u82	I think that today the involvement of parents is not only good but also necessary in all respects. We have a number of legal safeguards for this, including in the legislative proposal before us. But it also requires an active involvement of the parents at the school. If something's going on, they're gonna have to ring the bell. They should be in contact with the parent representation in a mr. That should not be seen as a kind of job where every year it is difficult to find someone who wants to do so. It is better if you say: that is absolutely good, because then I can influence the policy of the school. It must not be a licence or an excuse for parents to say: that school must be regulated and I do not want to interfere with that. I think that is no longer appropriate to today's situation. We ensure guarantees, but parents must also be actively involved in the choices made by the school. There has also been talk of the individual pupils and the possibilities of breaking that class association. These possibilities will be increased with this bill. This can, as well as that, continue to exist for schools to opt for class education. Honestly, I think you'll always keep a mix of class education, things you do with the whole class, and individual things, things that are more custom-made. I know that time is running out, Mr President, but allow me to give the following example. It is a good example. There's been an intern in my department for a while. He's walking around here today, too. He's in the back of the room. Wave for a minute. His name is Dyerd Alkema. Dyoerdt is 15 years old and attends Pallas Athens College in 4 vwo. He's going so fast. If we put him in mathematics or French classes today, he'd be incredibly bored. So what's he doing? He has been taking lessons at Radboud University in Nijmegen for two days in the week and he is internship with us for two days. He also takes lessons at school one day a week. He's just gonna get his VWO degree in six years, but he's gonna learn a lot more in those six years than when we told him that he had to spend all those fixed hours in the regular program in the school banks. I hope that what is now possible for Dyerdt will be possible for many more students. In schools that do this in this way, I see that teachers and school leaders are also having fun in teaching. The pleasure in teaching is ultimately a derivative of the pleasure you see with your students.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr Beertema will have the opportunity to put a brief follow-up question. In fact, he did not intervene briefly in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u84	I very much appreciate the attention the Secretary of State has for talented students. However, I sense a great deal of wishful thinking and that really worries me. There's just a lot of parents who don't want to come into the school, when they should. We'll find each other in there immediately. I wish it were, too, but it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u85	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u86	What are we gonna do with those students and those parents who don't feel involved in the school? How are they going to come to their senses in this incredibly individualized system?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u87	That starts with getting parents involved all the time. We have all kinds of programs for that nationwide. I say that at every school I go to. We know that children's performance increases when parents are more involved in education. So there's a lot of reason to keep parents close to the school. Suppose parents aren't involved, for whatever reason, then there are still professionals: school leaders and teachers, around the school who have the best interests with a child. They also look at whether children are having a good time, what they are good at, whether they might be bored and whether they could do more useful things at that time. Let me quote another example. In doing so, I will also answer Mrs Straus's question immediately. How do you ensure that those hours released are filled in in a sensible way? Those same teachers and students are there and that is discussed in Mr. Moreover, we have said throughout the top talent policy that you also give those students the best education. This must be taken into account in quality policy and in the monitoring of quality in schools. So you shouldn't just look at the bottom for good care. You should also see if the good students are challenged. So there are sufficient guarantees in the system to provide quality education in the school, even if parents do not care what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u88	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr Van Meenen asked if I could reflect on what the hourly standard will look like in the future, even if you want more flexibility. I think that this bill already creates a great deal of space. It is not the pupil who has to comply with the standard; the school must offer a programme that meets the standard. If the school offers a 4 700-hour havo program and a 5 700-hour vwo program, then the school has fulfilled this requirement. Within the system you can then do certain subjects at the havo level as a student and others at the vwo level. So I think there's definitely room. Should we let it go all the way? I'm reluctant to do that. We have had the Dijsselbloem report and the Cornielje report. Both reports actually state that it is a good thing that there is a workable education standard. I think that this standard is more workable and better suited to financial reality, but also that it is good to give parents some guarantees about the number of days and hours. So I am also a little reluctant and I am not going to say: let's do another whole international investigation. Then we will not end the discussion on education time again and we will be talking about the same subject again next year. I think that education needs rest and clarity, and I get the impression that this is very workable for schools that want to achieve their ambitions in the coming years. Before moving to block two, I would like to respond to the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen. They are talking about a lower standard of hours and want to re-introduce the distinction between regular hours and custom hours. I think, for starters, this is unnecessary. In my view, this law already offers room for customization. We move from the purchase obligation to a supply obligation, where in fact all those hours become custom hours. I also find the amendment undesirable, because it reintroduces the distinction between regular hours and custom hours. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u90	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 7 and Mr Bishop has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u91	I can imagine the State Secretary's hesitation, but I do not think it is right. What you want in good education is that there is also a certain structure. Mr Beertema is an eloquent interpreter of what can happen if you go to the other side. The purpose of this amendment is to provide clarity and structure. Indeed, you can still get in education with an average offer, but you also have to go to providing customization for each of the students. That's not the total individualised trajectory. They're individualized sub-paths. That is what this amendment is actually about, and in that sense I would rather interpret it as underlining the intention of policies proposed in this legislative proposal, while maintaining clarity and clarity in the structure. I'm sure you'll get Mr. Beertem too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u92	If I understand your explanation correctly, you really want to re-enter those two different hours. On the contrary, I get the impression that there is broad support in this Chamber for saying that it was not at first the happiest construct to make that distinction. You get a lot of discussions with participation councils and among teachers about what is regular and some customization. Is regular mandatory for everyone? Or is customization something we don't have to do so much about in practice? I believe that good education should be good education, that every hour should be tailored to the pupils, and I do not really want to go back to the old distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u93	Isn't this how we get discussions that run past each other? What this bill does is use teaching hours. This happens with a very clear structure, namely 1.000, 1.000, 1.000 and then in the year of exam 700. That's what schools are paid for. If you say everything has to be customized, I think you're gonna go through it and basically make everything out of control or it's gonna be a huge liability burden. The intention of this amendment is to ensure that there is a basic structure and to allow schools to develop their own pathways, where, in fact, an important part of the quality stroke has to be made. That is the intention of this amendment. That is why I really see it as a support for the intended policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u94	Unfortunately, the Secretary of State himself is concerned with that judgment, but you have brought it forward with great caution. The Secretary of State may still respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u95	Let me make this clear. I have the impression that we're talking a little bit past each other. Mr Bishop mentioned that himself. The current law, and not the bill, assumes a purchase obligation: each student has an x-number of hours. This bill is based on an offer obligation: for a training havo or vwo there is so much time. There is a huge amount of space for schools, students and parents. For example, one pupil must at least follow the entire regular programme, and perhaps an additional programme, to ensure that he or she passes. However, there are also students who go much faster and they do not have to follow all these hours. If you do that again, on the one hand you make it complicated for schools, while on the other hand I can imagine that for some students those 60 custom hours are too little. By setting a limit, we will get much less flexibility than I actually have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u96	You haven't made any interruptions yet. This is your first, so I'm going to allow you a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u97	You're fantastic, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u98	Yeah, but sucking up doesn't help.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u99	No, but this comes straight from my heart; it has nothing to do with sucking up. I understand what the Secretary of State means, but those better students should not be satisfied with fewer hours of education. They should use those hours in a different way. The Secretary of State has just illustrated this with an example. This amendment can very well support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u100	I am afraid that Mr Bishop and I will not agree on the amendment. Fortunately, we agree on the need to have room within education for customization and variety. The present bill also offers a great deal of space to do exactly what Mr Bishop wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u101	I have the impression that Mr Van Dijk is going to try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes, because this amendment does put the debate on edge. I'm sure the Secretary of State can help me explain the exact difference between his law and this amendment. Is it true that the law indicates 1,000 hours in potential to make customized hours? The amendment indicates that 60 hours of tailor-made hours are to be made. The other hours turn into teaching time for all pupils. How do you prevent it from becoming rather complex for schools to account for and control all that? And how do you prevent a substantial number of students from receiving no or insufficient education?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u103	I think that Mr Van Dijk is right and that the amendment aims to go back to the old system: flexibility in a limited number of hours, namely 60 hours, but with a lower ceiling. The bill offers much more scope. I'd choose that space. I also trust it, and I really believe that the most sensible choices are made for students. Schools have no interest in doing this in any other way. It's up to the teacher's professionalism, and we've got a mr looking after this. And if something is really going on, parents and teachers can always ring the bell at the inspection. In secondary education, many students are bored with much of the lesson, not because they don't find it interesting, but because they've mastered it. This bill offers more room to do other things with these students and to look for them to broaden and deepen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u104	So if I may translate it politically, the Secretary of State is free to go into it or not, then we now have the remarkable situation that the SGP and D66 are tabling an amendment that is going to create more rules and that the Secretary of State is now doing justice to his own ideology and is actually advocating a much more liberal system, namely: give the schools room for 1,000 hours of customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr Van Dijk is very sharp. I also enjoyed a brief debate between Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen in the first term. I think he's hitting the nail on the head here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u106	And that, quite unexpectedly, provokes an interruption by Mr Van Meenen, whom I am happy to give the floor to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yeah, 'cause that's the last thing I want, of course. When Mr Bishop said that he was going to meet Mr Bertema with this, I hesitated whether my signature should remain below. It's the last thing I want. I think it is still important to see whether we understand each other very well now, but I wonder whether this debate should be further burdened with that. In any case, the amendment is intended to give more freedom. If that's not the effect, I'll reconsider my signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u108	Colleagues can always look forward to an amended amendment. I do not have the impression that the Secretary of State has "dissuaded" his judgment at this time. There is also a brief question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u109	A personal fact, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen is being a little ungrateful to me. I am certainly the reason he came here to the Chamber, so I expect a little more gratitude for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u110	I think he is very grateful to you for seeing Mr Van Meenen's non-verbal communication. As President, I will not express my gratitude, but you can imagine anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u111	Maybe I can make the switch from quantity to quality. By the way, these two are very often and very closely linked. They asked what really counts as education time. This bill gives teachers plenty of room to fill in the teaching time as they see fit and in good consultation with pupils and with parents. Traditional classes and subjects such as mathematics and English remain excellent ways to teach and fill in, but there are also other ways to do so. Some things have been said about e-learning. If you do this in a good way, in consultation with and after consent of parents and students without compromising quality, then that is possible. Then what are the demands? Mr Van Dijk, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen asked. We are assuming a number of principles. It is essential that an educational activity be carried out under the responsibility of the school. The school is therefore appealable to the content, form and execution of that activity and therefore also to the quality. I'm just quoting the example of Dyoerdt. He's internship with me, but in the end I'm not responsible; that's his school. His school must therefore ensure that the internship is of a good level. If Dyoerdt goes to Radboud University, he must also make good agreements that what he does there is of a high level. The school can be contacted by the inspection, by individual parents and especially by the students themselves, because they often notice it first when something is not going well. The activity must be carried out under the didactic responsibility of a teacher or someone charged with it under the law, I say in the direction of Mr Van Dijk. That qualified teacher is very important to everything you do. That doesn't always mean that he has to be within walking distance or that he has to be physically present in the place, but that teacher is always responsible. The same applies to distance learning, on which Mr Bishop asked a number of questions. The following also applies, however you organize it or do it. We have had many discussions about what you can possibly do at home and about the exemption from compulsory education. I myself am less in favour of partial exemption, because this implies that there are a number of periods in the week of education that are not the responsibility of the school. Where children do a number of things at home, sometimes forced in the event of illness, but sometimes also because it fits in with an educational view, I believe that this should always be done under the responsibility of the school and a qualified teacher. Another condition is that participation must agree in advance to the planning of certain types of educational activities such as teaching time. Then there are the following questions. What's that got to do with anything? What about the affair? What do you do regularly, what do you do classically and what do you possibly do in newer forms? The whole package will be ahead of us. Without that agreement, the school will not be able to move forward. So you have to agree with all of them. Finally, it should not become apparent afterwards that certain new educational activities have had a negative impact on the quality or benefits of education. In that case, the inspection will take place, as this will affect the quality of education. That's kind of a final step. However, I assume that teachers, together with parents and students, are very capable of making sensible choices. A number of questions have also been asked about the day standard. We know the hours standard. This creates more flexibility over the years, because we look at it not per individual pupil but per training. However, another standard is included in the legislative proposal, namely the day standard. Students should be able to count on education on at least 189 days of the year. By the way, this means that they do not receive education on many days, about 175. I am in favour of making it less stringent for parents and students, but there are a number of anchors that offer and on which they can rely. Partly that is the hourly standard per training, but that is also the day standard. Let us not forget that when the discussion began about educational time, the problem was that parents and students were dissatisfied and that we in the department received mail bags full of complaints from parents, who said: now my child is free again, what is going on, can he possibly get some lessons? Look at the space schools have. You deduct weekend and holiday days; there are also 12 rota-free days where schools can organise various forms of peer review. This is independent of the fact that you can also schedule this in your regular schedules. I know that there are schools that are also really easier with this bill that already succeeds in, for example, planning for the mathematics section an hour a week in which all teachers of mathematics don't have to be in front of the classroom, but in which they look at how things stand, how the tests went, what went well and what they can learn from each other. I therefore reject the second amendment tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u112	That is the amendment to item No. 9. Mrs Ypma has a question on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u113	That was a clear and convincing statement by the Secretary of State. In fact, I would like to add that as a mother I really like to know where I am in terms of days off. The Labour Party does support this joint preparation by teachers' teams, but that can also be done in a different way. Is it perhaps an idea to ask the Secretary of State to clarify the other ways in which teachers' teams can jointly shape the preparation? The Secretary of State now cites the example of the math teams. I was last at a school that teaches development-oriented education and goes away with the whole team five times a year and puts other people in class on those days to teach. Perhaps this type of example can be identified and communicated. This amendment may then be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u114	Then it's actually about best practices, about good examples: do we see schools in the country that do this in a good way and can others learn from it? I am very much in favour of collecting them and showing them how this can be done. So I'm taking this point with me. In any case, I would like to say something about this in the following progress report on teachers, but in the meantime, of course, we are already working on all school support programmes, to show you: if you want to do this, it may be difficult, but the neighbors do it and so on; pick it up or do something similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u115	I understand very well that Mrs Ypma, as a mother, wants to know when these days off will come. That is why this amendment continues to include the days off in advance in the school guide, with the agreement of the participation council. Of course, that's different than suddenly being told that your child is home for a day. But my question is what is against it if you, as a school, as a whole, agree that you take some of those days, and therefore make additional efforts on other days to meet the hourly standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u116	I would like the discussions to be about the qualitative content of teaching time. If you leave it all open, there will be a discussion about how many hours and how many days. I am afraid that the debate will then be about quantity rather than quality. Moreover, we have educational benefits that are measured by a certain number of hours. In the way it happened last time, with extra hours coming without the cost being directly aligned, education is getting in the way. However, I think it is also quite a step to say: you know what, you have a certain funding for education, but you may also make 800 hours or 160 days instead of 1,000 hours or 189 days. I welcome the fact that there are a number of anchors that we can lie down for. This law offers those anchors. Then, in my view, there is much more to the substantive debate at school: how are we going to fill in those hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u117	That is really not a good idea, because this amendment does not in any way meet the hourly standard. That standard of hours is fixed, so the number of hours that pupils receive education or the number of hours that they receive education is fixed. The only question that remains is whether this should necessarily be done in those 189 days or whether it should be 188 or 187 if there is a good argument behind it, which is shared by the participation council. Of course, I also want to talk about quality, but this reasoning of the Secretary of State is really not correct. Again, this amendment in no way detracts from the amount of education that is going to be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u118	I see that last point, but I said this in the context that it is good to have an hour standard and a day standard. At least that gives some peace and stability, including for parents. But you could of course release the day standard with the same number of hours. So you only have to schedule more hours on the remaining days.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u119	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u120	However, I have not yet been to a school where I was told that those 189 days are a problem; we want more space for that. The trade unions also indicate that they can manage well with 190 days in a year. So the question is whether it is not just right to ensure that lower limit. Mr Van Meenen quoted Finland himself. I have looked at that for a moment, but Finland also has just a day standard of 190 days. That's an excellent way to provide education. Then there is no immediate discussion on more days when children do not go to school and how they organise it as parents. In my view, the discussion should be much more about the content of the securities we give, namely the number of hours and the number of days. A number of questions have been asked about monitoring. Let me say first of all that the quality of education must always be in order. That is also the basic point of departure of our inspection. It does not mean that, if the quality is at issue, an inspection visits weekly or annually to check whether the hourly standard is being met. It's being risk-oriented. When the quality is not in order, the results are disappointing or suddenly declining, that is when the inspection visits. It then looks at the hours standard and at many other aspects that determine the quality of education. Mr Bishop asked how this was done in practice. Schools should be able to justify from each school year, for example the upcoming school year 2015-2016, whether the total number of programmed and realized hours of all years of learning meets the standard, i.e., of all Havo classes added in a year. In my view, that's a way of doing it quite administratively. Because schools account for the programming and realization of the hourly standard each school year, they can over the years provide insight into compliance with the hourly standard at cohort level. If the inspection in the context of risk-based supervision on the basis of the accountabilitys at school year level finds a deficit, it looks at the annual level............................................................................................................................................................................................................. If the school can indicate that more education has been given in the previous year or that it is planned that more education will be given in the following year, it can be settled. There will therefore be no reason for the inspection to maintain and sanction this point. Mr Rog, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Bisschop asked questions about the position of parents, particularly in the context of horizontal supervision. In the first instance, parents and pupils will have to discuss questions and concerns with the school leadership, and then with the participation council. In the event of real concerns, the inspection can, of course, be activated. What is needed to ensure that this is done properly and to give real hands and feet to horizontal supervision? I repeat it to Mrs Straus: then transparency is of the utmost importance. You need to know about the school and you need information about it, as well as the rest of the parents and students should be informed about the decisions taken at the level of participation. With this bill, we guarantee that it will be properly arranged. In a way, this has already been incorporated into the current laws and regulations on co-determination. For example, the participation council has a right of assent when it comes to the school guide. Mandatory components of this are the total number of hours and type of activities programmed as teaching time and identified as being in addition to the policy used for drop-out. Every now and then, there can be a lesson. It is important that the school, together with parents and pupils, makes good arrangements about how this is taken care of and what is done in such cases. The school guide will be published after approval by the participation council. The school guide is awarded annually to all parents and students. Usually it is also available on the website of a school. Mrs. Straus asked if there was anything you could do with annual reports. I think the school guide offers a much better handle than an annual report. An annual report is often at administrative level and under a board hangs several schools. Within these different schools, different considerations can be made. But the school guide is very specific to a school; much more depth can be gone into it. Mr. Rog asked how it works with Windows for Accountability. This is a way to inform parents, but also more and more a way to shape supervision rules and administrative burdens. If there is a proper use of Accountants Windows and what the schools place on them is really reliable, my line is that the inspection should not again address the same questions at the school. He should be able to assume that. That's gonna make a difference. Not all schools join in with Windows for Accountability. Also, not all schools participating, fill in all the data up-to-date, timely and correct. If we want to do so, this calls not only for a different method of inspection, but also for much more openness from the schools themselves and care to place things quickly and quickly on Windows for Accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u121	The Secretary of State rightly states that Windows for Accountability is an opportunity for this. However, he also knows that not all schools are involved. Is it not possible to use this change of law and the benefits that this way of accountability for a school can have as a means to call on many more schools..............................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u122	That's definitely something we're gonna do. Of course, we can always make that call here. I don't know if the law is the vehicle to record that, because this is just about teaching time. Windows for Accountability is much more than just that. For example, Mrs Straus herself asked whether it would not be good to look at the satisfaction of parents and pupils. I am very much in favour of that. In my view, schools can also give much more openness in this respect, including through Windows for Accountability. Moreover, we have agreed on this in the sectoral agreements. Together with the sectoral councils of primary and secondary education, we have noted that it is very good that we are now working with accountants, but now we have to go to some sort of 2.0. It needs to be better and more insightful, including for users. Parents and students really need some help. They need to be able to see how they can interpret it. Besides, it needs to be more complete. All schools should just participate in my view, otherwise you click wrong every time and you think: oh, another empty field, what will I get out of it? That step really needs to be taken. I suspect that after the turn of the year, in the course of spring, I will be able to outline a number of outlines of exactly what this requires from our side and from the school side.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u123	Just a little while longer. One of the reasons why many schools do not yet participate is because they do not see what it will do for them if they participate. I do not argue at all that the project Windows for Accountability should be included in this law; don't get me wrong. We establish accountability in this law. This is an opportunity to encourage schools to join Accountability Windows, especially if we want less administrative burden in education, but we do need to be accountable for choices made there. I am therefore looking forward to the letter from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u124	I think this is very good. We can also work on the usefulness, on the question of what schools are getting along with this. I myself think this is part of the professional responsibility of schools. How do you carry out your work, even in areas where the question of utility may not be directly raised? I find openness to parents and to students of the utmost importance. If they have to choose a school, they just have the palette open on the table. If their kid's in school somewhere, they can just see how it goes there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u125	The Secretary of State states that Windows for Accountability can be a means. I need to get this sharp. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are not going to impose all kinds of obligations on schools in new laws. It would be very nice if schools that justify themselves in this way would also benefit. Have I understood correctly to the Secretary of State that schools that properly justify themselves through Accountability Windows are not also being harassed in another way by the inspection and the government, which means that they have additional administrative burdens again? Could it be limited to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u126	Let me be very specific about this. If a school is answerable to Windows for Accountability and it is not going well, of course it is not the case that the inspection should not be allowed to come and ask additional questions. It is the specific information that a school makes public through Windows for Accountability. But that information has to be reliable. The principle that you do not have to fill in the same data everywhere, we also apply in other places within the government. In the letter that the Minister and I sent to the Chamber on the new inspection supervision, this is one of the success we hope and think to make during the inspection. The knife cuts both ways: it saves the schools a lot of extra administrative burdens, but it also saves a lot of time at the inspection if she doesn't have to ask for those things again. The inspection can then look at other important issues in the education process. Mrs Ypma asked if the inspection is aware of the new way of working. Of course, the inspection was completely included in this. In fact, when we announced that this was coming, we recommended that we anticipate the legislation. It is, of course, difficult for schools to be dealt with under the old frameworks, whereas this law, which is widely supported, as we have seen today, is imminent. Mr Bishop asked whether the assessment frameworks would change or whether they would remain the same. I think that Mr Bishop refers to the list of possible permitted qualitative interpretations of the teaching time. That is, by the way, a non-limitative list, a kind of directional framework that is given. The list can continue to be used as a guide to the discussion about the interpretation of the teaching time, after this law has been passed. I have now arrived at my last block, the block "other." Mr Van Dijk asked a question about release. He's gone by now, but I'll answer the question anyway. We have agreed that these new standards are intended to preserve the budgetary space available to schools for the primary process of good education. The school can ensure that the formation is maintained, or that more space is created for teachers to look at each other in the class from time to time. Talent programmes or other instruments may be set up. That was the explicit point. In other words, it is not a austerity measure. It's not like the budget's going down a bit now, which we're skimming off the resources. This offers extra space for schools. I think we are listening very much to what education itself says. We do not completely abolish the hours after the criticism, but we adapt it. Maybe I can give Mr Van Dijk the following. For language, mathematics and mathematics, this is perhaps a very good guide: adapting, not abolishing. Mrs Ypma asked a question about continuing training. Actually, I totally agree with her. Why does continuing training always have to be done under school time? Then it's wringing again or the kids are sent home. Teachers are highly educated people, from whom you can expect them to do something at night or at weekends. I know they're willing to do that. At these times, the training institutes are usually closed. I think you can do two things about this. It starts with the question. The social partners and the schools must say at those clubs where they buy routes, that they have mass and are with a lot of people. They can say that they are willing to take courses, but under a number of conditions. If there is anything else I can do on top of that by asking in my contacts at the training institutes if they can better match school hours, it comes from two sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u127	I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much, because this is exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u128	It is nice to conclude a discussion on a legislative proposal with great agreement and, as far as I can see now, broad support. The aim of the legislative proposal is to enable more tailor-made, innovation and a school-based interpretation of education. That will happen when the bill is passed. But I think that's a little too passive. With the bill, I want above all to ensure that the people in education, the professionals, are challenged to make conscious and professional choices themselves. I want to challenge them to take up the space that will be offered later. I think that is a very strong point of the proposal, which we can all be proud of. With this bill, we are completing a very long discussion on education time, but we are also starting a new phase, in which we challenge teachers and school leaders to take the space they get.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u129	I would like to say that we came up with this at the end of the answer, but Mr Van Meenen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u130	I do not know whether those last words "to take space" were the answer to the question I asked the Secretary of State about Elsevier.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u131	Free Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u132	I've given some quotes, for example: "Do only what you're sure will help your students, don't do the rest."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u133	The Secretary of State nodded at this quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u134	I can reassure Mr Van Meenen: I am not taking back a word of what I said at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u135	My question focused on this aspect. Suppose a school is self-consciously saying: we simply ignore the hour standard or the day standard, because we have much better ideas. What does the Secretary of State do?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u136	It seems very good to me that teachers in the hours they work do the things that they feel are useful to them. If teachers would decide massively to say in their wisdom "thank you for the salary, but we think it's good not to teach anymore," then of course you have a very strange situation. I'm not gonna sit down. No, I'll just say that I can't. These statements aim to ensure a high quality of education. Make sure you do the things you think they're contributing. Make sure you use it usefully. Don't do things because your boss or the inspection says you have to do them, if you're not absolutely convinced it's gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u137	I see that Mr Van Meenen wishes to interrupt one more time, but we are doing the interruptions in two. There is a second deadline, in which he can come back to this. I see there is a need for such a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr. Chairman. It doesn't happen often, but sometimes the cabinet comes up with a good bill. And that is the case today. Fortunately, with the adoption of the bill, we are getting rid of the cramped hour standard that causes bumps. We should ask the authors of the 2006 Jan de Vries amendment how they look at it themselves. The amendment was supported by CDA, VVD, GroenLinks and D66. At the time, they were in favour of this ban. Anyway, we're moving in a different direction now. If you abolish a bad measure, you always have the risk of the valve going to the other side. As far as I am concerned, today's debate was mainly about this. The Secretary of State says that we are now going to 1,000 custom hours, and the school is completely free to classify it. But then you run the risk of leaving students to their fate. I think that the amendment was in part No. 7 by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen intended precisely to do this properly, namely by exempting the 60 custom hours that were available from supervision. In my view, the million-dollar question is now this: what is going to happen to that amendment? Mr Van Meenen has already made a retreating move. My question to Mr Bishop would be: 'We will hear the answer in his term 'what he does with it'. Is it true that this amendment actually gives you 940 fixed hours, which all students must meet? I'm very curious. It's a good law. Finally, I would like to make one final point. The Secretary of State said that we should also take a smart approach to the calculation test and that we should not abolish it but adapt it. Yesterday we were briefed on this. That didn't cheer me up. It's a huge rush job coming up. Adapting is fine, but for next school year making so many major adjustments that are needed is very hasty. I think we will come back to this, but I would like to say at this point that it will be an irresponsible rush.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u139	It is up to the Secretary of State himself to comment on the comment on the letter, because that letter is not on the agenda for today. As Mr Van Dijk himself pointed out, this will be discussed at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reactions and for answering the questions of the PVV. We always appreciate serious treatment. However, we are in no way reassured. Everyone keeps coming back to that strict control of education time. I am sometimes accused of telling all kinds of generic stories about education and making all kinds of conclusions about it, but my colleagues in this Chamber do exactly the same. There were many schools that were not affected by this strict control at all, because they were well-educated schools that could also comply with the strict requirements of the hourly standard. They gave a very good interpretation to that. In addition, they were able to individualize and do all kinds of beautiful things within that framework. It is therefore not the case that the whole of education has suffered so much. That control, however annoying it was, had a reason, namely that schools often allowed the importance of their own organization to prevail over the interests of the student. I am not expressing a value judgment on this at the moment, it is just a fact. How did that happen? The freedom that the institutions had to deal with these rules in the most opportunistic way, which is what we call 'perverse incentives', we saw everywhere, in the whole semi-public sector. When I look at the housing corporations and the survey on them, I find that we are still dealing with the consequences. This could happen because in the years before, since the Lubbers Cabinets, the government had withdrawn from the public domain. This has resulted in a number of good things, but also a lot of bad things. I mentioned the housing corporations, but we also saw a lot of nasty, nasty excesses in education, caused by the retiring government and the self-inflating directors who thought themselves a social entrepreneur. Under Rutte I we have somewhat restored this together with the CDA and the VVD. I am sorry that the political memory, including of this Chamber, is so short, because the modernisation we are talking about today is, first and foremost, an example of, once again, the withdrawal of government. The Secretary of State and others are right if they find that the government has checked too rigidly, but I would say: let us then deal with it, just on the details, on the dossiers that matter. Let us take small steps to improve things. What is happening now is actually just another educational experiment that needs to be completed. I'm sorry, but I think that's great failure. Instead of making this movement to leave the school domain completely as is happening in accountability model 2.0, as the Secretary of State calls it, we could have also focused on the small improvements. There is a next educational experiment of VVD and PvdA, with the support of D66 and CDA. We think this is an ill-thought experiment that will soon be directed by creative managers and directors, with the inspection and the government at a great distance. There lies the danger of another drama, following the drama of competence education, which was presented with the same rhetoric. That is what I want to say, even if it was just for the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his response to the questions. In some ways, it was enlightening. He has underlined a few things here and there. This will help us to make further judgements on this bill. I have missed answering one of my questions, but that is undoubtedly up to me, I confess. The educational programme is the responsibility of a qualified person. My question was who is responsible for part or all of the pupils sitting at home. Or is it more convenient to keep thinking about partial exemption from compulsory education or something like that? I'd appreciate it if the Secretary of State would respond to that. Mr Van Meenen has tabled an amendment on my behalf to set the limit of 189 days. The explanation given by the Secretary of State on this point was certainly enlightening, but my question remains. This is typically something that is not now regulated by the law, but what is added to it, while on other points this legislative proposal provides us with a relaxation of regulation. So I'm still a little hesitant about this. I would also like to await the reaction of Mr Van Meenen. The Secretary of State also discussed the amendment to item No. 7 on the 60 tailor-made hours that I have submitted together with colleague Van Meenen. The Secretary of State says all hours are customized. I continue to find that ambitious. The Secretary of State has expressly stated that the annual schedules, the teaching tables, the annual class system and all other tools and structures available to the schools remain fully and unlimited. Schools therefore have greater freedom of choice. Within these 1,000 hours, they can provide tailor-made services and space for alternative forms of education. That is absolutely necessary at this time. In view of all this, and bearing in mind this, we have decided to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u142	The Bishop/Van Meenen amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u143	I am glad that the 1,000 hours that have to be accounted for actually remain 1,000 hours. I would not say so much that every student has the right to inspiring teachers and so on, because that is difficult to enforce, but one can demand that pupils receive meaningful education in those 1,000 hours. Then you say much more than the statement that they have the right to an inspiring teacher. The latter doesn't say that much. Soul is beautiful and should be there mostly, but it is about meaningful knowledge transfer, about opening up into the secrets of life. That's a teacher's assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u144	Then there is a question from Mr Van Dijk about a withdrawn amendment. I think that is a peculiarity, but let me give him the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u145	What's happening is special. The amendment is firm and the arguments contained in it all fall if someone withdraws it. It says, for example, that it becomes more complex to justify and control teaching hours. And as Mr Bishop himself quite rightly pointed out when interrupting to the Secretary of State, there must be some structure at the school to offer our students. How does Mr Bishop deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u146	That is precisely why we hesitated to withdraw the amendment. A school can choose entirely to maintain the structure that is currently being used there. That room has the school. At the same time, we have taken a serious look at the consideration given by the Secretary of State. You can now place all kinds of additional forms of education within that 1,000 hours. The indicative list in the surveillance framework of the inspection has been mentioned. In addition, I feel too little support from colleagues. I very much appreciate the support from the SP side, but I still have little support, while Mr Rog, behind my back, made all sorts of raging gestures towards the Secretary of State: go ahead and crack down on the amendment. That's what closed the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u147	All these ferocious gestures are not to be found in the Acts, so they are not recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u148	No, that's why I'm calling it. At least now it stands for his biographer neatly in the Acts. That has actually been the consideration. It's a little dubbing, wiggling and weighing. At the end of the day, we said, "Let's do this." We are following it and are confident that education can find a good form for this. If some schools fail, the inspection will have sufficient instruments to intervene. That was the reason to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mr Van Dijk, the amendment has been withdrawn. A brief explanation has been given. I suggest we leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u150	Can I draw one more conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u151	No, interruptions are meant to ask questions, not to draw conclusions. The amendment has been withdrawn and I thought it was a peculiarity. I've given you one opportunity. We're not gonna do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u152	That's what we're gonna do at dinner or at some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u153	Exactly, then you can elaborate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u154	We'll figure it out. I would like to hear that conclusion from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u155	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the written procedure and for answering the questions here. I did indeed agree with his appreciation of the amendments tabled. Of this, Mr Bishop has just done the same thing. A complex and politicised debate in which the relationship between education and politics has been put to the test and in which the best possible political assessment has been made of how to complete the standard of hours in such a way that there is good quality education, ultimately comes to an end with this legal treatment that gives confidence: confidence in the parliament with broad support and confidence in education. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has confirmed that this bill will further reduce the administrative burden on schools. If parents or pupils consider that the quality of education is insufficient, they can intervene. That gives me the confidence that the valve mentioned by Mr Van Dijk of the SP cannot go completely to the other side, and I will therefore propose to my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u156	Mrs. Strauss has waived her second term. I call Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. This is a good time. I have recalled this before, and I will continue to do so, especially after the Secretary of State's contribution. He has shown that he stands for the space that teachers and schools need to provide students with optimal customization. Today's debate has led me to the amendment on item No. 9 over 189 days, because there is currently insufficient support for this and because there is insufficient need in the field. I note in particular that the field of education is very pleased with the new definition of 'education time'. I don't want to interrupt that party by linking it directly to a new discussion in 189 or 188 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u158	The Van Meenen/Bisschop amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u159	There's only one difference of opinion left. The Secretary of State says that this is the final piece of the debate on education time. I am convinced that it is not, because education will continue to develop and it will be necessary to extend the scope that we are now giving further in the future. This must of course be done in a responsible manner, but with the same objective that I had in mind two years ago, namely to offer students the best possible opportunities. I look forward to the debate that will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I started with a compliment to the Secretary of State for this bill, which I believe is widely supported by this Chamber. The withdrawal of the two amendments is a nice compliment. After all the Secretary of State's explanation, I'd like to table a motion. As far as I am concerned, I would like to have a future exploration carried out by the Secretary of State himself or by the Education Council. This will help to identify opportunities, challenges and opportunities. This raises questions such as how in other countries we deal with the time of education and how we can ensure that teachers get their professional pride back as much as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is good that with the expiry of the 1,040 hour standard, teachers should be given more room to adapt education to the needs of pupils;]] [[noting, however, that there remains an hourly standard per training and is not clear whether and in what way this hourly standard would contribute to the quality of education;]] [[believes that education should never be about quantity but always about the quality of lessons;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Education Council to examine whether and, if so, how an hourly standard contributes to education and also to make it clear how in other countries a good education system is being dealt with,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ypma and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34010-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their broad support for this proposal. A number of questions have been raised, a motion has been tabled and I would like to say a final word. I shall begin with Mr Bishop's question, which had remained. It was about the partial exemption from compulsory schooling. He asked about the responsibility of the school. I myself am very much in favour of putting the responsibility for pupils who, for example, receive education because of a chronic illness or otherwise at home or who are not full-time at school, and leave them at school. In fact, that is how it is regulated by law at the moment. The primary obligation in schools is to organise education in such a way that sick pupils or pupils with disabilities staying at home or in hospital can also receive adequate education. Space is offered to do so outside the school building, but always under the responsibility of a school or teacher. I want to stick to that, because it provides some sort of quality guarantee. Also in the discussions on home education, which is about questions like: what can you do at school and what can you possibly do at home? I am always happy to go back to an institution where people are familiar with things that can monitor quality, rather than exempting pupils from compulsory schooling. You won't be able to see quality at all. Mrs. Ypma has filed a motion. I'd like to discourage that motion in this form. That depends on a number of points, but I also have a proposal on what we might be able to do. I do not entirely agree with a number of considerations, because I do not think it should be just about quality. It's also about kids just going to school. Mrs Ypma asks the Education Council in particular to investigate this. We have recently adopted the Education Council's work programme for the coming year. We must be careful that we do not move something new in there every time. We have limited ourselves to a number of investigations. The Court itself has the power to identify a number of themes. This is very relevant to the planning of the Education Council. I am not in favour of putting a motion back on top of that now. I also wonder if the Education Council is the body that can best make international comparisons. That is really difficult work, because then you need to know what exactly other education systems are like, for example, what is and is not counted as education time in Finland. Mr Van Meenen touched on that, but then it turns out that it is only classroom time and not everything around it, while we are much broader in our approach to education in the present proposal. Except that you have to be careful not to compare apples and pears with each other, I don't think this is the most logical place. Maybe I can make a suggestion. The Minister discussed with the Chamber how we look at education in a recent AO. It was briefly discussed that we are considering asking the OECD to take a closer look at our system from an international perspective. What explains the success of the Dutch system? Where are blind spots? Which topics would we perhaps like to know more about? Perhaps we can give this to the OECD researchers as a point of focus, in the sense of: look at how this has been regulated in the Netherlands in relation to a number of other countries. Then we place it in a better place and we frame it. I do not want us to reopen the whole debate with a new report when I get the impression that education needs peace and clarity on this issue and I want to give education the opportunity to go ahead with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u162	Ms. Ypma, is this offer of the Secretary of State's reason for you to withdraw or amend the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for this concession from the Secretary of State. This is a reason for us to withdraw the motion. It is a good proposal to give this to the OECD as a point of attention. Then we can always look again when we want to raise this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u164	Since the Ypma/Van Meenen motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u165	It's not like you're giving an order to the OECD and saying, you have to do this. It's not a consultancy firm. Such an assignment and such a framework is always discussed in consultation. They also need to see if that works or if it gets a good place in it. However, I suspect that the Minister and I will inform the Chamber about this after the turn of the year, in the first few months of the new year. If the Chamber says 'I do not think this is enough', then we can always come back to this point separately. I'm rounding up. Mr Beertema expressed his concern. Several other members spoke about trust. I think we should give the present bill a chance. Where individual schools do things that can't be done, there is an inspection to intervene. There is now also a great responsibility in education not to betray the trust given. In any case, I would not want to go back to the time when we had constant discussions here about angry parents' letters about drop-out and you name it. The Chamber may well know that if we feel that things are not going well, although, of course, we keep our finger on the wrist, we will not say that we are not doing anything about it. In fact, I think that the Chamber is often ahead of me and that it is the first to ring the bell in order to properly evaluate the law at such a time. For now, however, I think it is very much in response to a great need that lives on the part of pupils and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-10-tweedekamer-6.u166	The vote on the bill is next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State and the spokesmen. We're about to suspend for dinner break. At 7 p.m. the meeting will continue with the discussion of the Gershuizen/Van Oost initiative on the amendment of Book 6 of the Civil Code in connection with acquisition fraud.
