ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We have five speakers and the first is Mr Schouw from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. The debates on the annual reports of the National Ombudsman have recently got a bit out of hand. I will not dwell on the reasons for this, but I am glad that we have had another discussion with the Minister on this matter. My group believes that this is extremely important, because there are a lot of lessons for the government. In general consultation, I have therefore called for a letter from the Minister of Security and Justice on what to do with the complaints. We got that letter this morning. I am glad that the letter is here, but I do have some questions about the content and perseverance of the Ministry of Justice on that point, and I will be discussing it with that Minister, Mr Plassterk, happy to see it. For this minister, I have prepared the next motion, based on the idea that this Chamber should put pressure on it, so that something is done with the Ombudsman's opinions. Otherwise, we'll be moving air. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is unclear what exactly happens in practice to the recommendations of the National Ombudsman;]] [[considers that it is important to gain a broad understanding of the implementation of the recommendations and the results achieved in terms of improving the provision of services to citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to report in the short term, but not later than before the presentation of the next annual report of the National Ombudsman, on the main elements of the improvements and results of the implementation of the recommendations of the annual reports of 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33876-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u3	If the Minister were to say that all of this would be too extensive for him, I would be sorry to give him the basic point, as well as the fact that he could also submit this request to the Ombudsman, so that he could see what has been done with his own recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. December 16th on Call Brabant, just a message: Thousands of Brabanders are losing home help. That document states that hundreds of them have lodged an objection with the municipality. The question is whether municipalities have sufficient time and capacity to deal with all these objections. If this does not work, it is often a next step for people to file complaints and get to the National Ombudsman because of the treatment. In general consultation, I asked the Minister whether the capacity of the National Ombudsman has been increased. The answer was no at the time. The CDA Group does not think that is wise. In order to determine whether this is the case, it would be wise to ask the Minister..... to inform the Chamber about the end of February, then two months later and then two months later, and so on in 2015 about any increase in complaints to the National Ombudsman. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u5	There's one motion and one question. I understand the Minister can respond to that right away. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Ombudsman's opinions relate to the treatment of citizens by administrative bodies and can therefore also focus on the Empire. In that case, there is always a governing person's portfolio. In itself, it is not a legal obligation that the opinions contained in the annual report are presented in their entirety by the Minister for the Interior, at least the government's policy response to them. That will happen, however. It is my coordinating responsibility to ensure that, if there is an annual report from the Ombudsman, each of those opinions and recommendations, including those aimed at the managing director responsible for sea fishing, are responded to in the cabinet response. I am doing this on behalf of my colleagues. After that, the coordinating work was done. Then it is up to the House of Representatives and the managing director responsible, for example, for sea fishing, to ensure that what the cabinet has promised to do is actually done. If the Chamber finds that it has not done enough, it should address the relevant portfolio holder. What I would not want is for the Minister of State to remain responsible until the end of the day for a particular issue in the field of sea fishing, just because, in his coordinating role in the cabinet response to an annual report from the Ombudsman, he has combined the responses. I believe that the right course is indeed for the Minister of State to provide the cabinet response to the annual report. If there is a subsequent follow-up to the actions promised by the Cabinet, if the Chamber does not consider those actions to be sufficient or if it is concerned about their implementation, then it is up to the relevant Chambers Committee and the relevant govern ment to continue to do so. I therefore reject the motion because it leaves the Minister of BZK responsible for reporting on the results of the implementation of those recommendations, whereas that responsibility really lies with the portfolio holders of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u7	One question, Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u8	This minister is taking a lot of time to explain that he actually has no powers. Thank you for that. Perhaps, however, the cabinet can clarify where I can find out what the cabinet is doing with the recommendations. They just disappear in the circular archive. There is no document that says that the cabinet has issued recommendations from the Ombudsman, unless this minister can point me to that document.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u9	The cabinet response, for which I have the coordinating responsibility, states what the cabinet does with each of the Ombudsman's recommendations. This can also be discussed further in the debate with the Minister for the Interior. That's been done recently. If one then finds, for example, a year later, that a particular recommendation has not been implemented or that a response is not sufficient, one should discuss it further with the person responsible. We must not talk about sea fishing with the Minister for the Interior. This leads to an incredible amount of administrative pressure and you do not address the person responsible for this on behalf of the cabinet. Mrs Keijzer shares her expectation, as she has done in general consultation, that decentralisation will lead to an increase in complaints. I told you then that I do not share that expectation in itself. I think that when care is organized closer to people by district teams and so on, it will lead to better treatment and less complaints. Nevertheless, I have already promised her that in the next consultation and at the next meeting of the board of directors that I have with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, I think that we should indeed keep our finger on the pulse to see if the number of complaints is increasing. If that is the case, I will inform the Chamber. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u10	There is another question from Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u11	When can I see that message? I'd like to hear a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u12	I will address the subject in the next meeting and ask you to keep your finger on the pulse at this point. Well, that's got to take a while. There must be sufficient months to see whether Mrs Keijzer's pessimistic expectation is fulfilled. Let me put it this way: as soon as there is any signal that the number of complaints is clearly increasing, I will report it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-15.u13	I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for his presence in this brief debate. We'll vote on this one motion tomorrow.
