ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	Madam President. There is something special or, if I may say so, something naughty going on in beautiful Zeeland. Since 1 November, the municipalities are no longer allowed to hire refuse officials. Mrs Dijkstra, the Minister and myself have worked very hard to achieve this in the last two years. We have passed a law, adopted by the Second and First Chambers, which, for the sake of clarity, means that we are no longer allowed to discriminate and no longer to discriminate in whom they marry. This means that, since 1 November, civil servants have not been able to refuse to marry anyone, including those of the same sex. What do we see in the municipality of Tholen, however? There, three refused officials have just been appointed to the bar, just before the legal date of 1 November. It's okay, but everyone feels that society can't do it and that it's against the new law. As I said, it is not illegal and it is not prohibited, but it is a bit administratively naughty, especially for a college of SGP, CDA, Christian Union and VVD. These are usually, so is my experience, extremely decent people, who understand very well that, when a law has been passed by the Second and the First Chamber and has been ratified by the Head of State, everyone has to comply with the law, including the beautiful municipality of Tholen. That's why I have a few questions for the Home Secretary. What does he think of his responsibility for the situation in Tholen? There is not one refuse official, there are not two refuse officials, but three, in the trap, while there are only 8,000 people living in Tholen. Is the Minister aware that there is a huge waterfall of marriages to be expected in the coming period? And my final point: is the minister going to tell the municipality of Tholen that it is allowed what she has done, but that it has a spicy edge? It goes against the spirit of the law, which came into force several weeks later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. Marriage in the Netherlands has been open for many years to people regardless of their gender, so also people of equal gender can marry. The ultimate consequence of this is that an initiative law of D66 has been adopted with the full support of the House of Representatives. In doing so, wedding officers should no longer refuse to marry people of the same sex. The law was adopted on 4 July 2014. The law states that it would enter into force three months later, i.e. on 1 November of this year. The law makes a distinction. New cases have been mentioned in the law: there must be absolutely no more people who refuse to marry equal-sexed people. Existing cases are mentioned in the law: people may have been appointed before the law has been changed, so we leave it to local government to deal with them. These people are not fired in advance of the state. Then, a week and a half before the law came into force, three more officials were appointed in Tholen, who apparently themselves reported that they do not intend to marry people of the same sex. That is, certainly because that appointment is so short in time, in fact the avoidance perhaps not the avoidance, because that would be unlawful.... from the law as it stands. It may not be contrary to the letter of the law, but it seems to me to be contrary to the spirit of the law. So I do not like it. In that respect, it is disappointing that it has happened. I can answer Mr Schouw's question as to whether I would be prepared to contact the municipality of Tholen: I have already done so. I have spoken to the newly appointed mayor, Mrs Van de Velde, who is also changing in Tholen. Interesting and perhaps spicy is that she was appointed on 15 November. It is therefore after the date of entry into force of the law. It was therefore not there and it was not part of the decision to do so. Well, it's a situation found by the new mayor, too. As I said, the law leaves this possibility open. But it's, you could say, a bit of a long nose to the state. We're not used to that from Tholen, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	I think something special has happened today, because the Minister and I agree 100%. It's been a long time. It is also an important issue. I am glad that the Minister has taken another look at it, because it is, of course, a mistake that, one and a half weeks before a law comes into force, three more refuse officials are appointed to a community of 8,000 people. I can only underline the Minister's words. It is contrary to the spirit of the law and it is also the drawing of a long nose to the legislator. I have two more follow-up questions to the Minister. Is he aware of any more of these naughty congregations in the country? Actually, I'm curious about that. Or is Tholen the only one and that's it? Is the Minister prepared to engage with the fresh VVD mayor of Tholen in order to see if the duration of the contract might be temporary? If three young people have been appointed who are refused officials, they may, in the worst case scenario, play their role as refuse officials for another 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	I am not aware that the same has been done in other municipalities so recently. In any case, I would like to stress that it is no longer possible to do so from 1 November. 1 November has now passed, so nowhere in the country can civil servants still be appointed who refuse to marry people of the same sex. I hope this is a one-off issue. Given the age of the appointed officials, all of whom are not yet so old, it could indeed be that they are still sitting there for a long time. I can only point out the law as Mr Schouw knows it. The law proposes to the incumbent refuse officials that it is up to the municipal administration to decide whether they want to take action. They cannot then rely on the General Law on Equal Treatment. If there is another wind blowing on Tholen, there is a wind blowing on Tholen, then there is an opportunity for the municipal council to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	Indeed, the decision taken in the municipality of Tholen is completely contrary to the spirit of the law. My colleague has dropped words like 'not neat' and 'a little naughty'. The Minister also states that it is indeed not beautiful. In my opinion, decisions taken in the public administration should not only be legally legitimate, but also properly. Is there a detour, a legal hook, to see if this is indeed a decision that can be maintained in this way? That is my question to the Minister. Then I have a very brief follow-up question...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	You've already asked a very long question, and you only get one question at a time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	Legally, I do not see many possibilities, because the law is very clear about the date of introduction and about existing cases. The provision on existing cases was intended, of course, and I am also looking at Mrs Dijkstra, the other initiator of the law, to do justice to the fact that people may have been appointed at the time when the marriage had not yet been opened up to people of equal sex, i.e. more than ten years ago. So it could not have been anyone's intention to appoint new existing cases a week and a half before the law enters into force. We can agree on that. I don't like that, I told you. I hope it doesn't come up in other cases. That's all I can do about it right now, I'm afraid. However, we agree on the substance of this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	Something extremely strange is happening here this afternoon. There is a party with a strong constitutional tradition, like the SGP. There is a minister who is the guardian of that constitutional tradition. They put a congregation in the suspect bank that obeys the law properly. The Minister has contacted the municipality of Tholen. That's what I did. Turns out what? There were vacancies. An open procedure has been applied for. The question of conscience has not been asked whether marriages between persons of the same sex are prepared. The appointment took place on 21 October. The municipality has kept to the procedure. Five people have been appointed. Later, after the appointment, an interview revealed that three of them were not willing to marry people of the same sex. In other words, does the Minister recognise that the municipality of Tholen has complied correctly with the legislation and has followed a proper procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. The city has complied with the law. You can evade the law and avoid it. I've just made that distinction. The first one isn't allowed, but the second one is. There are all kinds of consultancies that sometimes reflect tax opportunities for this. I consider it less high than a politically highly interested municipality like Tholen. I don't like naming three of the five people you might know how they feel about. I understand that there has been an explicit search for people who could provide a vacancy that had arisen for people with a certain religious background. The city's completely free to do that. The question is whether it was then necessary to speak out in advance in order not to have a marriage of equal sex, while all other municipalities of the Netherlands will have to comply with the law as of 1 November, regardless of what kind one is. The law was implemented here, but not in a nice way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	Our former colleague Boris van der Ham has been to the embassy today of a number of countries where you are apparently not allowed to think freely and where you are punished if you do certain things. This is all due to the fact that these countries have no separation from church and state. Now I understand that denial officials do this mainly for religious reasons. If, in the municipality of Tholen, a majority of civil servants were to be refused, I do not know how many wedding officials the municipality has, I think that would be a jam for those in such a municipality who have different views about life and freedom of thought and action. Can we amend the law in such a way that we do not have a single municipality in the Netherlands where existing wedding officials are refused by a majority? I would find that very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	Let me say first of all that it has been the case for some time now that all the municipalities of the Netherlands are working wedding officers who are willing to marry people of the same sex. Also in Tholen two of the five newly appointed people have that willingness. The freedom of people to marry and find a suitable civil servant, even if they are of equal gender, is not restricted in the Netherlands and should not be restricted at all. The discussion now is about the more fundamental issue of whether you have the right as an official at all to say that you do not want to marry people of equal gender. This position has also been compared in previous debates on this law with an official who refuses to marry certain people for other reasons. The legislator has said that it is not appropriate and this is also prohibited from now on. The discussion is now only about whether, if you know that the law will enter into force in a week and a half, you should do so. That is correct according to the letter of the law, but it is not the intention of the law and I do not like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	The Minister states that he considers it morally reprehensible that in such a short time prior to the entry into force of the law officials have been appointed. I would ask him to consider, in consultation with the mayor, or perhaps the municipal administration, whether these officials could be contracted for a limited period of time, otherwise we might be dealing with these refused officials for a few decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	I talked to the mayor. It realizes that it is up to the local authorities to decide how this is handled, including the possibility of deciding at any time that they wish to say goodbye to them. This is up to the city council and not the mayor alone. This possibility was also explicitly discussed in the Chambers during the discussion of the law. I have the impression the mayor realizes that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you for your answer and for coming to the Chamber. You can stay for a while before the votes. That concludes oral Question Time.
