ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister. I'm glad you're here. There are six participants in the debate and two of them will speak. The first is Mrs Siderius of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and a question for the Minister. They're about the fact that roc's students refuse. The reason for this is financial incentives. In the debate, my colleague Jasper van Dijk indicated that the MBO is getting a little overstimulated. That's why I'm filing the next motion on an incentive-free zone in the MBO. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that MBO schools sometimes refuse pupils as a result of financial incentives;]] [[Considering that an "stimulant-free zone"..........................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[calls on the government to set up a pilot with an incentive-free area in which MBO schools have the opportunity to give the best education to overburdened pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u3	Then I have one more question. I've asked the Secretary of State for Education to respond to a support profile of an MBO school. The Minister would give that response in a piece she sent to the Chamber last week. But I can't find anything about that in that piece. I've read through it a number of times. The point is that an MBO school refuses students on the basis that they rely on allergen-free spaces, could not maintain and move independently, depend on nurse assistance, and a whole list of further grounds for rejection. The Minister knows that list, too. I would like her to make a statement today as to whether this is the way to apply grounds for rejection for an MBO school.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u4	The second speaker withdrew, so that this was the time limit for the Chamber. The Minister can answer immediately. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have no intention of setting up incentive-free zones. In fact, I believe that we have had experience of financial incentives for MBO schools in recent times. They have helped to ensure that vulnerable young people also end up well. Think of early school leaving alone, which has fallen from 70,000 to 28,000. This is due to a combination of financial incentives, good programmes, regional cooperation and the fact that my department has gone to the schools and asked what has actually been done. That is what we want to continue with the quality agreements, so that schools themselves show what their profiles are and how they deal with vulnerable young people, but also with excellence programmes and so on. That approach has proven itself and we will continue to do so. So I am not really in favour of incentive-free areas in general, but if you are talking about experimental space or free space for regions, then I can imagine that schools, municipalities and youth care parties should not experience obstacles to working well together. And that is precisely the intention contained in my letter on vulnerable young people received by the Chamber earlier this week. It also announces the launch of a pilot project, which will allow a number of regions to pool the regional care resources of municipalities and MBO institutions and to make final agreements on the implementation at regional level. That idea was suggested earlier by the authors of the report "The Child of the Account." So in short, everything happens, with pilots, with targeted instruments. I therefore assume that this will produce results. From that reasoning, I advise against this motion. Last week, the Chamber held a debate with the Secretary of State on appropriate education. It is true that he indicated that I will go into the MBO section in my letter. I don't have that letter ready here. So I cannot indicate a page number, but it does say something in that letter, namely that we are dealing with the grounds for refusal that MBO institutions still have formally, by means of a right of admission. This should give clarity to young people and parents. The starting point is an appropriate education provision. I'm sure we'll come back to that in great detail, because that letter has just been sent to the Chamber. In fact, I assume that the Chamber would like to discuss this letter with me. It will then be possible to discuss this issue further.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u6	One question from Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u7	The letter only talks about generalities. I already mentioned this before the summer recess and then the Secretary of State sent that support profile. He would respond to this for the previous debate on appropriate education, also specifically to the grounds for rejection mentioned in that support profile. He said: no, that is what the Minister is about, and he will come back to that this week. And then you get a page with mere generalities. That is not the way in which I ask for a specific response to the concrete grounds for rejection in this support profile of these MBO schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u8	I'd say you should be happy. We are addressing the problem not only for this one pupil and for this one school, but we are offering a solution that applies to all MBO schools. I therefore believe that we are taking a step forward from a specific approach to a general approach that includes this part. But again, I like to talk about it again, but for that it is useful if I myself have those particular specific passages that refer to the answer to the question of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-16.u9	I thank the Minister for her presence. We shall vote on one motion tomorrow. I'm suspending to the 6:00 clock for the scheduled work.
