ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the reply by the Secretary of State in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is indeed very special that in your midst on my birthday I may defend the pass bill. Of course, I do not want to anticipate what birthdays could get at the end of the day, but I do know something that would make the Chamber very happy. I hope she not only makes me happy, but above all also the nature and the entrepreneurs in this country. I'll be happy to say something about that later. I have divided my speech into a number of blocks. First of all, I would like to make an introduction. Then I am talking about border and threshold values. The third block concerns the development area, the fourth block deals with the operation of the PAS and I have another block. I am doing my best to incorporate the government's opinions on the amendments in the blocks themselves. I do have a handy overview at the end, so if it is necessary and there are uncertainties, I can repeat them all once. Last Friday, I presented the government's vision. It focuses on ecology and economics. The point is that nature is at the heart of society and that together we take advantage of the opportunities to strengthen nature and economy hand in hand. The PAS is a necessary step for improving nature and enabling economic developments. The PAS is an investment in more robust and resilient nature. We're also pulling a lot of extra money out of it. Without the PAS, the current impasse will remain. A number of Members have also noted this. We then lack the necessary additional measures to reduce the nitrogen deposition. The granting of licences remains virtually locked. A breakthrough is therefore necessary. Mrs Ouwehand asked whether my commitment was courageous or reprehensible. I think that is a fair question. The moment I issue a bill in the Chamber, you always have to ask yourself what kind of problem it is for. I hope that I have just outlined that it is very important that we achieve a breakthrough and that there is now a problem, both in terms of nitrogen deposition and in terms of licensing and development space. I don't know if it's brave to start this bill. In any case, it is difficult, even in legal terms. I will not hide that, but I will always do my best to organize as much support as possible for what we are doing now. From the outset, we have invested in support for the PAS, with provinces, with industry but also with nature organisations. I have concluded the Nature Pact with the provinces and have concluded an agreement with the farming community on agricultural measures. There is also support from nature organisations for this duplication. The cabinet has invested in the PAS. Compared to the previous period, the cabinet invests 1 billion extra in nature in this period. In addition, we do some things on a number of other topics. The Chamber is familiar with the use of manure policy. It is also aware of our views on the greening of the CAP. We'll talk to the Chamber about that, too. She also knows that the cabinet announced last year that for the first time in history there will also be opportunities at local level for provinces and municipalities to take action on public health issues. In that context, let us also make it clear from the cabinet that we are serious. We want space for nature and we also want space for the people in this country. We're just looking for those situations where we can make a profit. I am glad that we are talking today about the legislative proposal that provides for changes to the legislative regime of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. Those changes are necessary to improve and adapt the legislation in force to the programme as developed together with all relevant authorities. In the letter I sent to the Chamber on 1 April, I also called for the legislative proposal to be dealt with at an early stage. Why did I do that? We see that drivers and entrepreneurs are waiting for clarity. This has also been indicated by several first-term speakers. But the programme can of course only be completed when a legal framework is also established. On 10 December last year, we discussed this bill for the first time. As Mrs Jacobi said today, a great deal has happened since then. I have provided the Chamber with additional information, also on the basis of written questions. In the letter of 1 April, I hope I have provided clarity. I will go into the main points of the letter in a moment, because they are very much in the Chamber. I will answer the first-term questions as much as possible on the basis of the current state of affairs. As I indicated in my letter, care is important when completing the PAS. It is important for economic development to break the current deadlock in licensing. It is also important to reduce the nitrogen deposition that we are taking action in this area. The PAS must provide a solid basis for this. On the basis of a number of points of interest, which I mentioned in the letter, we are going to examine the programme carefully once more and, if necessary, improve it further. Following the opinion of the Advocate General in the A2 case, we are also looking at the extent to which the field analyses provide for a set-off of natural effects at field level, related to the issue of the development area. Where that is the case, it shall also, for the sake of certainty, be examined whether the frameworks in force according to the Advocate General have been applied. The provinces, the minister of I and M and I are fully committed to getting the PAS started this year. Today, the bill is ahead of us. That's technical in nature. It does not contain any major changes to the applicable law, but it is essential to be able to continue with the PAS. The current Nature Protection Act provides the framework for the programme. This concerns the following matters. Who's gonna determine the PAS? What procedure will be followed? What elements should in any case come back to the PAS? It also concerns the duration of the PAS period, the general requirements for supporting the PAS, both environmental and socio-economic, the obligation to implement the PAS measures, the implementation of the management plan and the obligation to leave at least 10% of the development space for the second half of the PAS period. The legislative proposal adds a number of aspects to this, such as a basis for setting a limit value for licensing. And there are a number of procedural improvements to it. The contents of the PAS are mainly outside the law. The priority projects, for which development space is reserved, and the limit value according to this proposal are included in a ministerial scheme. Of course, in the PAS itself, there is the real content: the development area by area, the breakdown by segment 1, these are the priority projects of the Empire and Provinces, segment 2, the other projects, the distribution of the development area over the programme period, the description of the generic source-oriented measures to be taken, and also the rehabilitation measures by area. Then we have the ecological basis, the socio-economic impact, the policy of granting permits to interim workers, and I shall go into this further on the basis of questions and the policy of latent space. As far as I am concerned, there is not only enough room, but I also see the need, in view of the support in the Chamber, to discuss the content with the Chamber after the adoption of the bill. The concept of PAS and the draft Ministerial Arrangement can be shared with the Chamber before the PAS and the Arrangement are established. Amendments have also been tabled on this point which call for not everything to be laid down in ministerial rules but possibly in the case of AMvB. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to go into this in more detail when we deal with the amendments. Bottom line basically means that I understand very well, also from my past as a member of this house, that of course the Chamber does not sign at the cross. I'm just saying it the way it is. The Chamber wants to influence the system in the vein of: what goes in and what comes out? There are amendments that allow for this and can contribute to the process. There are also a few amendments which may make it a little more difficult, but I would like to do that here today. I also think it is very important for the House to have an exchange of views on the content of the PAS. At the end of 2009, when dealing with the Crisis and Recovery Act, there was broad support for the amendment of the then member Koopmans and the member Samsom, with which the PAS was governed by the Nature Protection Act. That's memorized from a certain sound color, I'll say. During the first period, a large part of the Chamber said that we should now continue on this track, even though critical questions were asked and the necessary amendments were tabled. As has been said, the PAS is in favour of strengthening ecology and economy, facilitating authorisation and providing clarity to citizens, entrepreneurs and public authorities in and around Natura 2000 sites. If the PAS achieves that, I say to Mrs Lodders, the PAS has succeeded. The PAS therefore fits seamlessly into the broader nature policy that is in my mind and that is aimed at investing in a strong nature that can take a hit, which is also good for the economy, and at connecting those two interests. Mrs Dik, Mr Klaver, Mrs Van Veldhoven and also Mrs Jacobi stressed the importance of this strong nature. The same applies to Mrs Ouwehand. I think this is indeed true and would like to endorse it. It is therefore a question of greenery and growth. Or, in Mr Smaling's words, it's about getting ecology, economics and the administrative judge back through one door. This requires an integrated approach such as the PAS that offers. Several amendments have been tabled. As I have said, I would like to deal with them in the various blocks that I would now like to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Secretary of State says that the PAS will only succeed if it fits into the investment opportunities and is appropriate for more investment. That's a lot of fitting. The concern of the Chamber is, of course, broad in scope. I fully understand the Secretary of State that, if necessary, she will arrange the work through AMvBs and that she will submit those AMvBs to the Chamber, so that we will remain involved in the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	I am prepared to do so, and I actually want to show where it can and where it is complicated by the amendments. I would then like to look with the Chamber at whether there is a route that gives the Chamber sufficient opportunity to influence the programme as such. I understand that, and we agree on that. I have the feeling that we should not abuse the flexibility of the law, but should as much organise Parliament's sphere of influence as possible. Several amendments have been tabled on this subject. On that basis, I would like to show you my thoughts. If necessary, we can discuss this further in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	I think that is a constructive proposal. Soon we will be talking about the different parts. It is now about the general line. Does the Secretary of State intend to do so in such a way that it does not cause all kinds of delays? That could, of course, be the result, namely that we have bumps every time and do not get any further. Is there an elegant route along which we can do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	Yeah, I think so. It also helps if we meet each other in the time we take for some of the procedures and in the question of what matters we want to discuss here and what questions are so technical, and indeed not really part of the major political issues, that you can leave them to enter into force through ministerial regulation. I think we should find a mode in that. I hope that this debate can also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	The introduction, but also the thought behind and the justification of the bill, are a bit difficult to follow. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State an enlightening question before we proceed. I find it difficult to follow the Secretary of State saying: we want to combine it together. We want to speed up the stalled licensing process, we want economic growth and we want to restore nature. Nature didn't go well in the Netherlands. The previous cabinet cut 70%. This has been reduced to 50%, but with 50% less money you do not seem to be able to restore nature properly, and yet the granting of permits must get back on track. I think it is important that we know together what we define as a restoration of nature. Otherwise, the Secretary of State may pretend that this construction benefits nature, whereas in fact it may be quite different, and that would be annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	In that sense, I think it is quite clear that it is about reducing the nitrogen deposition. That's an autonomous fact. So it is not said that there would be no good line at all on this point. On the contrary, we can speed up this good line with this legislative proposal, for example, by reducing nitrogen emissions by means of a source policy with certain sectors. That is the point, and that is what we are investing in. That is why Mrs Ouwehand's position is that this bill would be bad for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yeah, but reducing the nitrogen deposition, it had to be. We don't need a programmatic approach to nitrogen. That was already an obligation. You can only think of how to give hands and feet to that. I would like to conclude in summary that the Secretary of State defines nature restoration as "something less polluting." Is that what we have to conclude here today? Is that the purpose of her approach? It defines nature restoration as "something less polluting."
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	No, Mr President, I do not think that is right either, even in response to some of Mrs Ouwehand's pressing questions. It will undoubtedly never be enough for her and her hair, but she will be given action on all the subjects on which she has asked for action in the area of manure, the greening of the agricultural movement of this cabinet. Let us not pretend that Mrs Ouwehand's agenda is a very pure one, when all the other people in this country are bad for nature. I don't think that's fair. It doesn't add up either, judging by what's going on here. And yes, the nitrogen deposition must be reduced. The special thing about this bill is that we are going to speed it up. So I would say to Mrs Ouwehand: count your blessings!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	To join the latter, I share that very much with the Secretary of State. After all, before we can spend money on nature development, that money will have to be earned first. The Secretary of State makes a constructive proposal and wants the Chamber to take part in the discussion on the content of the PAS and the measures. I'll summarize it very briefly. My group is also concerned with what we anchor in the law. That's why we're sitting together today. A number of principles have already been established, for example the duration of the PAS period. Is there still a possibility of coming back to this after this debate, when the PAS is anchored in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have to look at that. In principle, we have partly invested the duration of the period in this bill as well. I'd like to see how much space there is for Mrs. Lodders. That seems to me to be a fair question. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	By "before" you mean the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yeah, and if it's possible to do that sooner, I'll do it sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	We now have a period of six years. Earlier I mentioned the link to the zoning plans. The supplementary written questions have already raised this point. These are very crucial elements. My group does not want to commit to this in advance if we cannot turn those buttons. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to come back to those specific points.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mrs Ouwehand has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have just received no clear answer to my question as to what kind of natural recovery the Secretary of State is. I filled that out myself on the basis of her introduction. I think she means that natural recovery is reducing pollution. That's possible, but the Secretary of State seemed a little excited about that. If it's something else she wants to achieve and if she wants to define this differently, I'd like to hear it. Otherwise, I have to conclude that for the Secretary of State for Nature Recovery, as she puts it here to the Chamber and with which she wants to introduce this programme, less pollution means. Then I have to conclude: that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	That's not right. Look at the issues to which the Netherlands is also committed internationally. It is also about achieving biodiversity targets and the directives that we have to comply with. The legislation now before us is in line with those directives. This means that Mrs Ouwehand cannot judge the commitment to nature policy solely on the basis of the PAS. That would give a far too narrow picture of the stakes. Part of this effort is also included in the Nature Vision. Mrs Ouwehand spoke about the solid setting up of robust areas. Those are words that also find their place in that vision of nature. That's what we're after. She knows that I have identified many Natura 2000 sites in recent months. There are more than, I believe, in the eight years before. We are now fully engaged in its management plans. What Mrs Ouwehand says just doesn't do justice to the trial I'm in the middle of. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	I can understand why the Secretary of State finds it annoying that I'm so keen on this. However, we are going to give away development space, deposition space. I would very much like to know what the Secretary of State is referring to, within the framework of the PAS. If achieving the conservation goals is your goal, and you really want to come to a robust nature, then that must also be the benchmark in this system on the basis of which you assess whether there is development space or not. Now there is a vague talk about nature recovery. Of course, less pollution is always better for nature than more pollution. However, that is something other than recovery. Perhaps this will become clear when the Secretary of State assesses the amendments in which I have put forward a number of proposals to make that more precise than it is now in the system. The Secretary of State can also say here: I define it as follows. She can say: that will be the goal and the giving away of development space we will assess on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	This does not do justice to the system that is now before us. It also earns the development space. For this reason, for example, I made a very nice agreement with the agricultural sector on the contribution of agriculture to earning more development space. That is what the agricultural sector is doing in the basket, as it were. Half that development space gets the sector back. In other words, the contribution they make is considerable. For example, if you took the critical deposition factor as a starting point, we would not even achieve that standard if we stopped all economic activities in the whole country tomorrow. Just because of what would be measured from other countries in terms of nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands, we would not achieve that standard. It might be good to get this out of the way right away. That is not the norm we have been given internationally, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. So we should not pretend that these international objectives are out of the picture. In fact, we are making sure that it gets closer to achieving it. Then I'll come to the block of boundaries and threshold values on my own. First of all, the planned implementation of the limit values. The legislative proposal introduces the possibility of setting a limit value under ministerial regulation. Projects and operations with a nitrogen deposition below the limit value are not subject to an authorisation requirement but to a notification requirement. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the intended implementation of this possibility. The Minister of I and M and I intend to set a general limit value of 1 mol of nitrogen deposition per hectare per year. For roads where there is a linear emission source, we want to set distance values. These values are national values. Differentiation is only an option if the need to do so appears at some point after the introduction of the PAS, based on monitoring. As Mr Geurts pointed out in the first time, there must be certainty that activity below the limit value will not affect the natural characteristics of the Natura 2000 site concerned. This requires a good ecological basis based on the deposition space released by the reduction in nitrogen deposition and the measures leading to the restoration of natural values. This justification is provided per area through the area analysis. As has just been said, in response to the opinion of the Advocate General, we will screen and, where necessary, improve that support once again, as they become even more legally robust. The level of the limit value and the size of the deposition space required will be such that it is ensured in advance that the requirements of the Birds and Habitats Directives can be met in each Natura 2000 site. Several speakers stressed the importance of good monitoring of activities under limit values. It should be ensured that the nitrogen deposition by activities below the limit value is also accumulated within the deposition space. If that space is to be exceeded, it must be possible to intervene quickly. It is therefore necessary to have an understanding of the activities below the limit value. Mrs Jacobi stressed the importance of reporting. Indeed, the Minister of I and M and I want to introduce a reporting obligation, which will apply throughout the Netherlands. For the effects, it does not matter whether the nitrogen comes from an activity near the Natura 2000 site concerned, or from a distance. Therefore, the proximity criterion for the reporting obligation has been deleted. The notification obligation will in any case take shape through a simple electronic application. The administrative burden is negligible, I reassure Mrs Lodder. As Mrs Jacobi points out, I intend not to ask for a report for deposition below 0.05 moles, because that is justified, because it is such a small amount of nitrogen, 0.07 grams, that there is no point in monitoring that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	There are so many people at the interrupting microphone now that I give them the opportunity to ask about your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	First a short response to the monitoring: thank you for the proposal that has been put forward. It seems to me a very workable and good proposal. My question concerns the point made by the Secretary of State for this purpose, namely that the field analyses will be reviewed again. We see that space is being spent in some provinces, which is soon to be said to be part of existing use. The Secretary of State's letter states that most of them can be accommodated. But if you combine the statement that the area analyses need to be looked at again with the fact that space that has not yet been calculated has been spent, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State is sure that this will not lead to any bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	No, I believe that the letter of 1 April also states that, of course, bottlenecks will occur. It is precisely how we respond to these problems and how we can make them manageable. In my view, that is the debate we have to have today.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	How does the Secretary of State see that in general? If provinces have already spent space, although we all knew, of course, that we would wait for the PAS, and if costs are involved because entrepreneurs have been promised something that might not be possible, does the Secretary of State think that the responsibility for this lies with the Empire or with the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	I think this is a question that I shouldn't go into this way now. I think it is important that we continue to work well together with the provinces throughout this process. In doing so, we hold on to each other well to this day. It is quite clear that everyone in that process has their own responsibility. The Empire has a responsibility and so does the provinces. With regard to the specific issue of the interim workers on the issue of licences, we have found that the interim workers have been removed from the legislative proposal and that we are all taking them with one stone. The actual answer is that the PAS system will now be applied to all individual licences and that it will show whether or not a licence is justified. Unlike this, it cannot be done, as I have expressly discussed with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	The Secretary of State spoke at the beginning of her contribution on the regional analyses, which are at the heart of the system of calculation of the PAS. Could the Secretary of State for the Acts confirm once again that the social and economic aspects are taken into account in the regional analyses? I think that's important for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yeah, that's what I started my introduction to. These aspects are part of the PAS and also of the area analyses.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	That is true, but then you spoke of 'ecological' and 'economic'. Now we have also "social" clearly parked there. That's very important for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	Also for me personally, for all kinds of reasons. There's something you can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	With regard to the authorisation-free activities for which there is a reporting obligation, I would like to know how the Secretary of State is going to steer the accumulation of the quantities of moles involved. This accumulation should not ultimately lead to displacement in the development space. My second question is whether it would not be wise to calculate the cumulative effect in advance in such a way that a piece of development space is already reserved for that purpose, after which you will see how this develops through the reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yeah, I think that's a good proposal. We do want to work with that. That obligation is there to keep an eye on the accumulation. You have to set a real limit value for this, because if you are below a certain level at some point, the contribution is negligible, as has just been said. At the same time, it is important that we keep a close eye on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	As a result of the answer given by the Secretary of State, I have a follow-up question. What is the legal status of the interim workers? They got a permit from the county. Can they say in court that they have a government license? Or was that permit issued in the context that there was still legal uncertainty about the PAS? What is the legal status of the interim workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	I do not want to say very precise legal things about this now. I would like to do that in the second term. The problem with the interim workers is, of course, that in the current system licences are sometimes destroyed as well. That is why, also because of the legal sustainability of the PAS, the position of the interim workers could not remain as it was in the original bill. For this reason, individual licences will have to be assessed through the PAS system. For some areas, that's a real job. Nor is it a good or cheerful message for the people concerned. I will come back to the exact legal consequences, but that is real food for specialists. Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that, too. I have to be careful, because in the end the judge will decide this and not the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	It is fine if the Secretary of State comes back in general terms in the second term, as far as possible. The question is, of course, to what extent we have advocated this position for the interim workers. On the other hand, I also understand the struggle of the people who say it has been standing still for years. I'd like to hear the answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	The Secretary of State has promised that she will return to this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	I would therefore like to see an outline of the way in which the Nature Protection Act has been enforced. It makes a lot of difference whether a province, after the authority has been transferred to it, has looked a bit the other way and has now issued permits, or whether it has seriously taken up its enforcement role. I hope this can be taken into account in the reply. My question concerns the way in which reporting will work. You can report that you stay below the limit value and ask for the development space, but at some point the space is up. How will this work? Is this who comes first, first served? Who's pressing the button? Can we expect a run in the development area that remains below the limit? If it's 20, maybe it's not that bad, but if it's 100, it's too many. So how does it work with solidarity in the sector? Do you just have to stand up front? How does it work?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	This puts Mrs Ouwehand far ahead of the functioning of the system in the future. The main points are that we want to monitor it and that it is not a threshold, but a limit, which is a difference. With this limit, we want to prevent the system from becoming unsustainable because there is too much room for manoeuvre. When a problem arises, we must, of course, look at where it occurs and what possibilities there are for us to come up with a solution to this problem. You can also always eliminate effects with recovery measures. We do not necessarily need to talk about this only today, because in order to do it well, this method must be developed in the coming period in the consultations between directors and provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm a little surprised. I assumed the Secretary of State would have figured this out. I can imagine that an entrepreneur who is still breeding on any plans will be unpleasantly surprised if it turns out that everything is already up because others have preceded him.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	That's a caricature. We are now talking about activities under the 1 mole and the sum of those quantities. That will not be the major part of the development area. That is precisely why we have put this whole system together. That must be robust in order to really have those who use it in view. This is about the margins; about micromanaging the bottom of the system, but making it so solid that it doesn't leak. I think that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	I would like to continue on this point. This is due in particular to Mrs Jacobi's questions and the answer given by the Secretary of State to them. I understand that it is very micromanagement, but I believe that the Secretary of State has just indicated that it might be a good idea to reserve part of the development space for that kind of development, underneath that mole. The Secretary of State has said that she will return to the distribution of the development area in a later block. I could park my question until then, but I am very curious about how this goes during the PAS period. I understand the Secretary of State. If we set aside space at the front just for those developments under the mole, it will be at the expense of the amount of development space, even if it is at micro level. I'm very curious about how we're going to steer in that PAS period. It may be that the proverbial 'crane' is turned off in the letters of the Secretary of State and then, if I may put it that way, the turnips are cooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	Maybe it's good to make it clear that that crane is also turned off without the PAS. Anyone who thinks that an extra crane is being turned off by the PAS is mistaken. We can see that there are already difficulties in granting permits in some areas. The PAS is precisely a system to facilitate the granting of licences. Some of the things that would otherwise have to be dealt with micro........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If there is a development deficit, then there is also the PAS. We will therefore have to take measures to resolve this. And the purpose of this reservation is precisely to keep the granting of licences as it were, so that the problem cannot arise that we would have thought halfway that it would have been useful if we had done something for that. I think it's also meant to get solidity into the system in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	I think that is at the heart of today's debate. I very much agree with the Secretary of State when she says that the PAS is intended as an instrument to facilitate authorisation. The VVD wants that, too. But if at the same time there is too little development space, then the PAS is also of no use. That is, of course, the dilemma we are facing now. That is why I am asking how much development space is available and how we are going to distribute it. We'll come back to that later, so I'll park this question and maybe ask it again. But with regard to the content of the PAS, which we will come back to later, it is important to know if there are enough buttons to turn on so that we can steer the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	The answer is clear: yes. I think it would be good to return to this in the next block in greater detail, also because the Chamber has made a number of suggestions to keep the finger on the wrist extra well. One of the buttons on which you can always turn, of course, is that of the recovery measures. So, for example, if you do source policy and get stuck, it creates more space. That is also the good thing that the agricultural sector has done: a whole package has been put forward in advance. As a result, there is room, and that is what we deserve in this situation, as it were. The same applies to traffic, and this must also apply to industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	Before I give the floor to Mrs Jacobi, I would like to ask Members in general, and not specifically Mrs Jacobi, to put the questions briefly and briefly. That's gonna keep it going a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr President, briefly as I always am. There are many farms that currently do not have an NB licence or only partially. My question is therefore how they relate to this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have already answered this question in detail, even in response to Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions. So I'd really start repeating myself. The position of the interim workers is different from that of the original bill. This has been done on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, in which it was actually said that it should not be assumed that the existing operating space was issued without a licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	You have indeed just said that. I don't know what it's about, but I recognize it exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	That story has been kept, but my question is, what is their position? Is it or is it not taken into the development room?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	I will try to answer that and also give the promised answers to Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions about the legal position. The interim workers are companies which do not have a licence under the Nature Protection Act. Within the development space there is space to set limitations on the basis of the new key. Something else is if companies already had a Hinderwet or environmental permit before the specific test of the Habitats Directive became applicable. If such use is continued unchanged, an exemption from the licence requirement already applies under the law in force at the time. That exemption for existing uses simply continues to apply. So that gives you, as it were, two types of interim workers, namely the group that has been granted a licence on the basis of very old legislation and the group that sits next to it. It's complicated, Mr President, but it's an attempt to provide a little more clarity. Then I come to the amendments. Mrs van Veldhoven's amendment to item No. 11 The aim is not to set the limit values under ministerial rules, but under General Administrative Measure, which is submitted to both chambers for a period of four weeks. Mrs Jacobi also stressed the importance of setting limit values, and Mrs Lodders has just done so. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to be involved in setting the level of the limit values. I therefore agree with this amendment. Mrs Ouwehand has an amendment to item No. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations for use in the manufacture of certain dangerous substances and I do not share the concerns about legal sustainability and the other objections it raises. In my letter I indicated that we are now examining carefully whether all the necessary deposition space will be available without affecting the natural characteristics. I do not recommend the amendment to item No.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	Just to be safe, because there is some confusion about it: you were talking about the amendment on item No. 36?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes, and before that I was talking about the amendment to item No. 11 and I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	...judgment given to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	And the amendment to item No. 36 advises you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts, Mr Graus and Mr Lodders. 15. With this amendment, the applicants want to introduce a general additional threshold for nitrogen for authorisation without further conditions. Activities below that threshold will then be entirely exempt from the licence requirement and will not need deposition space. I do not think that is a good idea, and neither does the Council of State, as one has been able to read. The Council of State states that this could undermine the legal sustainability of the PAS; I say it firmly. The core is that a threshold must have a sound scientific basis. On the basis of the amendment, therefore, I should set that threshold in a ministerial arrangement. The proposers are thinking of 0.3 moles, but this simply cannot be scientifically substantiated if no further conditions are laid down such as the limit values laid down in the law. So the threshold of 0.051 moles, to which Mr Dijkgraaf refers in the explanatory statement, cannot generally be supported ecologically. The Council of State has accepted the threshold precisely in a specific situation, namely when assessing the effects of nitrogen deposition under a nitrogen regulation of the province of North Brabant. The Council pointed out that this threshold was not accepted in the context of authorisation. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf understands that, in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, I cannot help but dissuade his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	Of course, the Secretary of State can do otherwise, but apparently he doesn't want it any other way. The point is this. There's a limit where you say, "Now it's not significant anymore." That's what the Secretary of State said.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	Doesn't the Secretary of State think that 0.3 moles are so low that you have to ask yourself whether that size can be scientifically proven at all? The Secretary of State can leave the ball with us, but I can also put the ball back: if you compare it with the uncertainty of the calculations, are you still talking about something?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	The difference between Mr Dijkgraaf's and yours truly is that he introduces a threshold below which no further requirements can be imposed, while we have a limit value...Sorry, it's exactly the other way around, I think. I'm gonna have to grab it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	We have a threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	Yes, you have a threshold. There are no further requirements below that threshold. With the proposal as laid down in the law, including the obligation to notify, we use a limit value, because we want to monitor what is happening. There's a point where it's negligible, that's true, but for that, you'll need an ecological foundation. Again, read the opinion of the Council of State on your amendment. The board states that there is no ecological justification. This simply gives too much uncertainty, including from a legal point of view, for the sustainability of the system as a whole. I'd rather not take that risk; that's right. In fact, it could undermine the sustainability of the system in such a way that we might adopt a legislative proposal, but then have nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	I will illustrate what we are talking about when we talk about 0.3 moles, because people at home will be wondering what exactly we are talking about. Suppose you have a Natura 2000 site, an area with such a permit. If there is a project, it must comply with the permit if it exceeds 0.3 moles, according to our amendment. What's the 0.3 mole now? If a goose flies by and leaves a poop once, you've got 0.3 moles. So we are going to stop projects whose effect is the same as the effect of a goose flying over once. That project applies throughout the year. If that goose poops every day, we have 365 times 0.3 times 2, so more than 200 moles. Then we're talking about one goose entering such an area. I say this to show how much we are doing about micromanagement. Are we really supposed to want this? Should we stop projects with such a small effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	I don't think it's about stopping projects. It's about what you want to visualize about total deposition. What do you count? That's part of a bigger picture. The point is that you not only have the robustness of the system in order because of the large contributions, and that is really not to put overflying geese in the picture, but also that you have it well arranged at the bottom to prevent a whole lot of those little bits from eventually undermining a permit somewhere because those little bits in the total load they generate have not been taken into account. I am simply sticking to what the Council of State recommends, not because I like it or because I would not be willing to look at it differently, but because I want us to accept a proposal here that will eventually pass the test of criticism, including the lawyers who do micromanage, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr Dijkgraaf, it is an amendment, so I give you the opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	I understand the reasoning behind that sum. We should not, of course, have a problem with the summing up of projects. However, we have to remember that then we need 730 projects that could go on unjustly to weigh against one goose. When you think about how many geese we have in the Netherlands, you wonder what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	But again, the handicap for me is that I do not look so much at whether there is one goose or three geese or a few hundred, at least not in this dossier, but should look at the sustainability of the whole system. The Council of State has made a clear statement on this point. Mr Dijkgraaf is undoubtedly disappointed. The Council of State's ruling was: you shouldn't do this, because you can't back it up. Why don't you choose that threshold? That has been written down quite firmly. It does not seem to me that we should now take the risk that, because we are being tempted by Mr Dijkgraaf's good frames, we are now faced with a bill that has a leak somewhere. Even if it's a very small leak, we'll have a problem, because eventually the boat sinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think Mr Dijkgraaf has discovered a new species. He's talking about a hell of a goose. I have checked what that 0.3 mole means, but I have heard that it would be about as much as a dairy farm with 100 cows 3 to 4 kilometres away from a Natura 2000 site. This information comes from a source which, on average, Mr Dijkgraaf would consider to be very relevant, namely from LTO Netherlands. It must be a big goose, which farts so fart that it is as much as a dairy farm with 100 cows in one go. So it must be a new species.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	You shouldn't be under that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	You're right, you shouldn't be under that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	Madam President, I'm making a personal statement, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	A personal fact should always be allowed, Mr Dijkgraaf. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	It's just the facts. A gray goose has an excretion factor of 3,200 grams of nitrogen per year. One mole is 14 grams. So 3,200 grams of nitrogen per year has been converted 230 moles per year. That's 0.6 moles a day. What if he poops twice a day? So it's 0.3 moles a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	Perhaps then you have found cows that do very little, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	LTO apparently has those cows! It seems to me to be a point for Mr Dijkgraaf to discuss again with LTO who is right. Who poops more, a cow or a goose? I would like to leave that to the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	What would be the impact on entrepreneurs? I think that's what we really need to worry about. If the PAS were to become legally unsustainable, what does that mean for the entrepreneurs who would now be granted a licence, with the 0.3 moles so desired by Mr Dijkgraaf? Suppose they then end up in a situation where the judge says it is not sustainable. Will this be deleted? Are the costs for the farmers then? Then who's gonna get along?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	First of all, I would like to use one word, namely 'uncertainty'. That's what happens then. The consequences cannot be seen in all cases at the present time. But the purpose of this bill is to facilitate the granting of licences. It may, of course, come under pressure. The aim of the law to make things firmer is to undermine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	In addition, we have the distinction between reporting and licensing, where the question is whether you want to run the risk of a simple administrative act versus the security of a licence for which a separate limit has been set.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	I couldn't have put it any other way. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third block: development space. Is there sufficient development space for projects that last longer than the programming period? With the amendment in part No. 42 Mrs Van Veldhoven wants us to understand the amount of development space. Mrs Lodders and Mr Dijkgraaf expressed concern about the availability of sufficient development space. At national level, there is sufficient development space. It may be that at local level I have also described this in my letter of April 1st. As soon as the draft programme is made available for inspection in mid-September, there will also be clarity on the available development space and its distribution. Area analyses should provide evidence that there is sufficient space at area level to cover the estimated need, ensuring that the natural characteristics of the area in question are not affected. Mrs Dik-Faber asked what would happen if projects allocated development space last longer than the programming period. Mrs Lodders asked for that too. Essential in the PAS is that the consent decision, once taken, and thus the allocation of development space, is valid for an indefinite period. So the entrepreneur who gets a permit with development space in the fifth year of the PAS will keep it in the next PAS period. This is justified, because the effects of the measures taken during the first PAS period to generate the necessary development space also occur in the next PAS period. The assessment of the PAS also involves the impact on the achievement of the long-term nature objectives for the area. The next programme therefore takes this into account as an existing deposition. This is then taken as a starting point for the measures to be taken during that period and for the development area available. Whenever permits can be granted, where there is an ecological development area. I understand that, in order to invest, entrepreneurs need to understand the amount of development space available, including for the near future. With the Van Veldhoven amendment to item No. 42 the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and I will be able, for example, to make clear after three years how much development space will be available in the second half of the programme and in the next programme. This also provides information for entrepreneurs, for example. This concerns in particular the first half of the following programme. I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	Before the Secretary of State continues, I have another question about this. I hear the Secretary of State say that there is sufficient development space at national level. I would just like to mention a very basic example, the port of Rotterdam. It is quite coincidental in Rotterdam and of course has nothing to do with the development space that exists in the province of Mrs Jacobi.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	That's one of the examples where it's pinching now. We are talking about this with the port of Rotterdam. You must imagine this in such a way that we want to ensure sufficient development space from the port for a longer period, even if we may not need it at all. There is, of course, also a bottleneck in relation to other activities in that province. The granting of permits in that province is already difficult, because one has a lot of activity and at the same time has to respect natural values. We already have a problem in that province apart from the PAS. We are currently in talks with the port of Rotterdam in the letter to the Chamber to see how we can resolve this. Of course, we want to give space to this important port, but that must be done together with the province, because the province is about the rest of the development space and the priority setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	I think this is a very scary discussion. We assume a certain development area at national level, which is designated or referred to as "sufficient development space." I agree with the Secretary of State that there is no more room without the PAS. The PAS isn't for that, but I'd like to start at the source. I assume that the Secretary of State will respond to one of the first questions I asked in the first term. It was about how the Netherlands implemented Natura 2000. What else can we do about it? Should we not address this at the source to ensure that more development space is available at all? At that rural development area, the port of Rotterdam is one example. But there are more important regions where there is a lot of activity. These are regions where employment in the Netherlands has to come from. I do not say anything about other provinces. I do not just want to check the port of Rotterdam, because there are many more areas. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	This is about two different discussions. We are currently dealing with the current legislation and regulations and with the current directives. The Netherlands is implementing it. If we don't, we also have a legal problem. That's what happens sometimes. In that case, we will even have to deal with defaults by Brussels because the Netherlands does not take up its responsibilities. That's just the line we're operating on right now. We are trying with the PAS to make sure that at least all this authorisation can be facilitated, because we are also doing more on source policy. That's part of the answer. There's talk of the buttons you can turn on. You can say that's what you have to do in Brussels. We have also talked about this before. At that time it was about the feasibility of the directives. That's possible. Until then, however, you can also turn a different button, namely the source policy. Let us note that the agricultural sector in the PAS is making a significant contribution. For that, I also commend the sector. We have also seen for years that the transport sector is making a significant contribution, because cars are becoming cleaner and cleaner. The deposition space of the traffic is therefore, in fact, less and less. Such a contribution can also be made by industry, and it does so very often. There is also the possibility for the port to help itself, for example in the field of resource policy. In this way, space can be generated. So this is a big playing field. We are discussing nitrates and the Birds and Habitats Directives. We do. How does it work in practice? However, this is not helping us at the moment. So at the moment we are just dealing with the laws and regulations as they are. On that basis, we will have to assume our responsibilities. We'll do it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mrs Van Veldhoven has tabled an amendment. This will provide more insight into the future development space available. I think that is a good amendment. However, I do wonder how these PAS periods and the six-year management periods relate to the 'hand-to-hand' principle. After all, we know that this is often about investment in a new type of stable. These investments have a depreciation period of 15 years. How's that gonna work? If there is room for development, the entrepreneur can expect that it will no longer be taken away. That entrepreneur's been in there for 15 years. This does not seem to be in line with the six and five-year deadlines and the 'hand on the crane' principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	I don't think so. I think this is parallel. I have just said that if development space is allocated, and measures have also been taken to get the recovery in order, which counts for a long time. This is also important for the meaning of the law. After all, everyone understands that you also need time to get some things in order. That is true in the current system. That time is given to the Netherlands, including Brussels. We'll take that time, too, or we won't be able to do anything at all. Perhaps that is the intention of Mrs Ouwehand, but at least that is not the intention of the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	So here's my key question coming back. If you don't define exactly what you're comparing this to, and you're dealing with 15-year depreciation periods, then you run the risk of giving away development space in the first period, after which, after six years, after an evaluation, you might have to say: now everything is up and running, but actually we need to do more to achieve the nature goals? Then you have to conclude that that is not possible, because a legal status has been granted to the entrepreneurs. Is that "hand on the crane" principle really not an empty promise in this construction and in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	No, because once again, a number of recovery measures may take a number of years. You may wish to have it settled yesterday, but Brussels also gives us time to get it in order. This is being worked on, and this is also in line with the system of the Birds and Habitats Directives and Natura 2000. It says that you have time to work on the recovery. That's what the bill says. Your amendment gives more insight into development, so that I have no objection to it in this form. That could support the hand-to-the-crane principle you praise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	At the heart of this discussion is that the rights, once spent, apply infinitely, while the nature restoration measures in their effect naturally end as the nitrogen deposition on the other side rises over the years. With such a recovery measure you may be able to achieve a reduction in nitrogen in 15 years, but the existing use will also remain valid after 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	However, there is already an autonomous reduction in the nitrogen deposition. What the PAS is doing is speeding that up. In our view, there is a relationship with the development area that is indeed deserved, of which the agricultural sector is a good example. Of course, that's what we're monitoring. That has been agreed, and then we can distribute that development space, knowing that it will take a number of years for these measures to have their effect, but that is also a fact in the current system. So we are not going to wait ten years for measures to have their effect before we issue a permit. That would be problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	That wasn't the question. Let me illustrate that with a simple calculation example. Suppose an farmer wants to expand in the context of a Natura 2000 site, where already 12 moles of nitrogen are too much. We're going to take nature restoration measures that limit nitrogen in that area by 20 moles. Half of them must benefit nature, so that you still have 10 mole left. If that farmer continues to emit a little bit each time, after a number of years, the nitrogen space that we have created with each other with these remedial measures will continue, while the right to continue to emit will continue. That right is infinite, while the natural recovery buffer is a bit run-in year after year. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	No different than now. We are working towards a number of objectives that have been set. In doing so, the area analyses are leading; they indicate what you need to do to get the recovery in order, and which development space fits in with it. What are you trying to do? You have tabled an amendment on the hand-to-the-crane principle, but if I listen to you like this, you would obviously want to grant a permit somewhere, and after a certain period you might want to withdraw that permit. To be honest, that does not seem to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	The amendment on roof tile construction is completely separate from the discussion on how the recovery measures relate to the period for which the permit is issued. I am curious about the legal sustainability of the PAS on this point. Is the practice of taking sufficient recovery measures at any time sufficient to ensure that there is no long-term deterioration of nature? That is what we are trying to prevent. Of course, the nature restoration measures do not remain valid forever, and the rights do. I wonder whether this tension is still the point of the legal sustainability of the PAS, without me wanting to come up with a solution right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	I'm really trying to understand, but it's really hard for me. If you are taking a measure concerning source policy, why shouldn't it apply? If you have less emission, isn't it true that at some point after ten years, it will become more when you adjust the stable? So you need to help me now by telling me exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	Let me make it clear to the Secretary of State that we are talking about less.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	This is now going to be the fourth interruption on this point. I think, quite frankly, that we have invented a second term with each other precisely for this. I think it would be a good idea if you could come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	Otherwise, it'll go back and forth 20 times. It is wise to do so in the second term. Mrs Ouwehand, on another point, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	No. I do have a question for the Secretary of State. The entrepreneur has to do with a depreciation period of fifteen years, but a cycle of six years applies. The Secretary of State must, as a director, also keep the possibility of adjusting to its nature objectives after those six years, but the permit, I hope, has been given for 15 years for that entrepreneur. Can the Secretary of State comment in second place on how these two paths of time relate to each other and on what it means for the way in which that permit should be issued?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	I will do that again, and I will repeat what I said earlier, namely that the following is essential in the PAS: once an authorisation decision has been taken allocating development space, it will be valid for an indefinite period of time. So even if the entrepreneur gets development space in the fifth year, that still applies. The following programmes always take account of the existing deposition. At least that's part of the answer. I will come back to this in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mrs. Lodders, you're at the interrupting microphone. The Secretary of State has made it very clear that she will return to it in second term. I suggest that we discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	May I add one short point?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	If it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	It is a point that the Secretary of State can then take with him in the second term. It concerns the municipal zoning plans that are part of the development area that has been promised, in relation to turning off the crane because the nature targets are not met.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yeah, I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	The Secretary of State's gonna do her best. Please continue with your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	I would have stayed with the allocation. Some Members are worried. They fear that development space will be allocated, and we are going to try again before PAS measures are taken. In the PAS and the corresponding field analyses it is made clear that conservation and, if necessary, improvement of nature can take place even if developments are allowed before those measures have been taken. The conclusions in the field analyses are also based on the ecological effects of the measures in space and time. Actually, that's what we just switched the whole time. As has already been said, we are looking again at the field analyses, in order to improve them if necessary. After all, we want to ensure that the measures are legal as much as possible before the PAS is established. The PAS measures are not one-on-one linked to development space activities. This is, I think, also of interest to Mrs Van Veldhoven. In this way, housing requirements, which I have yet to discuss, apply nationally. The development space that it makes available becomes part of the total amount of development space. The PAS provides for a system of monitoring and, where necessary, adjustment, so as to be able to intervene in the event of setbacks or new developments. In Mr Smaling's amendment to item No. 21 states that he provides for a 50% reservation of the development area for nature. I don't think that reservation is necessary. I don't recommend the amendment. That development area is there, including for economic activities. It could be a political choice to say: I'm going to reserve that space completely for something else. In fact, you might even remove some of the development space. In my view, that is the material effect of the amendment. The restoration of nature is, of course, also regulated through the measures to be taken to create that development area. I therefore advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 22 by Mr Smaling provides for an automatic halt to the allocation of development space when the results of the reduction measures would be disappointing. That provision is not necessary, because the philosophy of monitoring and updating is at the heart of the PAS. An automatic stop would be very rigorous, when you might first be able to solve the problem area-oriented by looking at exactly what exceeding the previously calculated emission reduction means and what measures we can take to eliminate that overrun. For this reason, too, I have to make the amendment to item No. 22 dissuade. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. I have already made a comment from Mrs Ouwehand in my introduction. It indicates that we should not exceed the critical deposition value. I have just argued that this provision would mean that there could actually be no more activities in the Netherlands. I also say that this is not a Brussels demand at the moment. One of the characteristics of the Netherlands is that there are many people here and that there is urbanization. That is why such a critical deposition value is not feasible here at all. It's not a demand now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 35 is therefore discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	The amendment in part No. 35 is not recommended. Some amendments have been tabled on a phased distribution of the development area between the first and second periods. The starting point is that the PAS should provide for a responsible equal distribution of the development space over both periods. That therefore requires flexibility. The full width of the PAS may be determined when drawing up the PAS, which percentage is desirable and can be anchored in the PAS. This requires an understanding at field level of the impact of the allocation for the necessary development space for priority projects in the first half of the period of the PAS and in the space remaining for the non-priority projects. Mrs Dik-Faber has in the amendment to item No. 19 called for the buffer to be set at at least 30%. I would advise against that amendment, because it is now too early to set a percentage. With AERIUS 1.7, we will soon have the latest insights into the development space in relation to development needs. Legal anchoring limits the flexibility that may be required for a specific area. The amendment in part No. 27, by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Dik-Faber, is actually a qualitative condition. We need to be very precise about what we mean by this, because Mrs Jacobi has also stressed the importance of a more even distribution of the development area. I indicated in the explanatory statement that the idea was to make the development area more evenly distributed over both halves of the programme period. In my view, a balanced distribution is not fifty-fifty in advance. If that is the point of the amendment, then I have a problem with it. The distribution can also be 60:40 or 70:30, depending on the customization in an area, but I do think that the way you look at this can be right in itself. I could therefore agree with the amendment provided that, if it is adopted, there is room for the necessary flexibility and for tailor-made work per area.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	Customisation is necessary and we have deliberately not included a concrete figure in the amendment. I would like to make a second comment. Of course, there's some limit to it. The first proposal was based on 90%, which we thought was far too much. Even if the Secretary of State speaks of 70%, I still think it is on the broad side. If you are talking about a balanced distribution, there must be a certain bandwidth, but it must not be unlimited. This is what I want to say in the explanation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	I understand the latter, but so does the first. Mrs Van Veldhoven says she does not mention percentages. I will not do that, but it is the starting point of a balanced approach. The area and tailor-made work must lead in this direction. I think this is important for this amendment. If we agree, that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	I see Mrs Van Veldhoven nodding in agreement. I assume that will leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	Yes. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Klaver spoke about a possible run on the allocation of development space. They have asked for our expectation. With the amendment in part No. 17 by Mrs Van Veldhoven, the competent authority is given the power to withdraw licences in which development space has been granted if the space remains unused. I went and I assume that this power exists. In principle, this is true, but doubts may have arisen from recent case law. In view of this, I can imagine something about this amendment, because it provides clarity. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 18 by Mrs Van Veldhoven I must advise against. It proposes to charge a minimum fee covering the cost of the application for a permit. I understand that this is intended to prevent unnecessary requests for permits. It wants to set a threshold for this. That is not necessary, because, as has been said, we have the opportunity to withdraw a licence. This is covered by the previous amendment. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	If it were just about the threshold, the Secretary of State is right. There is another point, however. There are, of course, social costs involved in the granting of these permits, including to the public authorities. I think it is only natural that those who benefit from this permit also bear the costs that the company incurs for that licence. That is the reason for this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	I understand that, but if you do that here, you will also have a debate on how to deal with these situations as a licence holder at all. I do not think it is wise, for various reasons, to deal with this in this legislative proposal. I can imagine that at some point we are having a debate on this broader subject, but much wider. I don't know if this is gonna be resolved right now. Let us not do that. I maintain my advice, but I do understand what's behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	Okay, I'll consider withdrawing the amendment. I think it is important that we have this debate. This is indeed more important than explicitly regulating this in this law per amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	Now to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment to item No. 28, which provides for a mid-term review of the reserved development space, in order to avoid unnecessary reserved space and to prevent other projects from taking place. Actually, you could say that this is part of the hand on the crane. We can do this without a legal mandate, so we can do this anyway. However, I do not see any objection to doing so either. That is why I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. I shall continue with the further amended amendment tabled by Mr Dik-Faber to point No. 43 which has been tabled to replace Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by That's about the reservation of the development area. If I look at this amendment as quickly as possible, the amendment makes it possible to involve the Chamber in the development area and the priority projects within it. Is that right? I have just received this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	Maybe you can talk about it in second term. Indeed, it has just been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	Exactly. I say quite honestly that I cannot now see exactly where the difference is between this amendment and the original one. I will discuss it further in my second term. Within the development area there is a segment for reservation. This is intended for the priority national and provincial projects. According to the methodology, the remaining development space for other projects is in segment 2. Provinces may establish criteria for issuance in policy rules. That is what they are talking about. In segment 1, space is reserved in advance for specific priority projects on the basis of project characteristics. All sectors are included; there is no difference between the sectors. Several members asked for it. In any event, the Empire will designate the projects included in the MIRT. That was discussed in the Chamber. Mr Smaling asked for that. The provinces may propose projects of regional importance. In this context, I come to Mrs Ouwehand's amendment, which states that the development area for priority projects should be reserved for General Measure of Governance. The identification of priority projects requires flexibility. The Empire will review this list every six months with the provinces. I would advise against this amendment. It is important, however, to look at the amendment on item No later in the second period. 43 which also aims to do something in this spirit, but which has just been reworded. That could be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	Can you give the number of Mrs Ouwehand's amendment, which you have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	That's part No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	That amendment didn't advise you?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	Yes. And in my response to the original amendment to item No. 34, now part No. 43. I would like to come back to the same point, because it makes a proposal in the same direction. I think I could support it, but I just want to get a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	I am also considering an amendment on the same point. Perhaps I can present it together with the Christian Union, as a combination of the pieces of which all the songs have been mentioned. My question concerns the following. Do we define criteria on the basis of which projects can be eligible for these priority lists? In fact, there are a lot of projects in the MIRT and at some point we have to consider which projects we consider to be priority. And how does a provincial priority relate to a national priority, if there are bottlenecks in a particular region, such as the port of Rotterdam? How do we determine that with each other? Do we have any criteria for such a project before it can be included on such a list?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	With all due respect, you actually decide in the whole process of the MIRT what you think is priority. Let's establish that, too. The main list of projects is much longer than the one finally published in the MIRT project book. So they're a priority for the Empire and they're in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	This does not yet answer the question of how the provincial and national priorities would then relate to each other in the event of a difficult situation and whether a province could simply put a number of points on the priority list, which would leave less room for, for example, the development of agricultural holdings. How do we deal with this consideration and should we not have criteria that legitimise when a project is eligible for this priority list?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	That is, of course, just a political conversation between directors. I can make it beautiful, but that's basically what it's all about. In the end, that is also discussed. Let me be clear that I also agreed with the Minister of I and M that the projects in the MIRT are our projects and that we are going for them. There's no misunderstanding about that. The provinces know that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	I have another question in addition to what Mrs Van Veldhoven is talking about here. The cabinet demands from the agricultural sector that it reduces 10 kilotons and for that she gets 5.6 kilotons back.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	In fact, the very specific question, given the discussion of just now, is how the cabinet is going to guarantee that the 5.6 kilotons will be returned.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	That is an administrative agreement that I made with the sectors and for which I also signed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	Then I come to my follow-up question. How does this relate, for example, to the MIRT and to the deployment in the provinces of bypasses, infrastructure and industrial sites? How are you going to enforce that from The Hague in the various provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	That is, of course, part of the joint consultation, but it is also the farmers of the provinces and not just the farmers of you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u136	The MIRT story is clear. Speaking of prioritization, I do wonder how it works for projects that are notified for the Crisis and Recovery Act. We have, of course, seen the one after the other tranche of projects coming along. I can imagine that provinces are trying to get things on the agenda through integration plans or through desirable developments. Outside ring Parkstad has already been mentioned as an example. The Council of State has allowed half a road to be built there, awaiting the adoption of the bill we are discussing today. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u137	In the end, that is also a responsibility that the provinces must take up. We therefore do not assume their responsibilities. It is very important to establish that. We are pulling together, and so we are also ensuring that when it comes to the development area, we always have that good conversation with each other to ensure that both the opportunities for industry and those for traffic and for the agricultural sector can be appropriate. From my personal responsibility, I pay extra attention to the agreements we have made with the agricultural sector nationwide, as I have signed them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u138	I get that. If I go on and look at Zuid-Limburg, also considering the derogations for the Lös areas, then an individual farmer in South Limburg who has to fight against a provincial desire to build the Buitenring Parkstad has very little chance of achieving any further expansion in that region. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u139	No, you don't. In the end, it is also a common interest that we see this sector, as Mr Geurts rightly said, making a nice contribution and ensuring that it gets some of it back. That's something that both the provinces and I will be paying attention to. Eventually, it will be up to the provinces to make choices, but also to us. We're gonna hang out together. That is perhaps one of the reasons why the Chamber wants to have influence. This will be further developed, also following the administrative consultations between the various departments and the provinces. In my view, the essence is that the Chamber not only wants to say yes to a system but also wants to be able to say yes to it. In fact, I would like to make a proposal to Mr Smaling in response to his amendment. I do not accept the amendment with this proposal, but perhaps we can find a way to get along.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u140	What is the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u141	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 33 by Mr Smaling. He wants to put AMvBs in front of all implementing regulations instead of a ministerial arrangement. The problem is that there are a lot of detailed technical rules in the implementing rules. It concerns, for example, the way in which AERIUS is registered. I'm not sure that's where your biggest interest lies. I can imagine having the PAS once, not every time I change the PAS, but once. The Chamber will be told the whole story. That is not in Mr Smaling's amendment, because he wants to regulate by law that this must be done with every change, but I think that is too far-reaching. I wouldn't want that. In the beginning, Mr Dijkgraaf asked the question whether the Chamber could send somewhere. I'll deal with him. My answer would be: let us do it in that way. Then it does not need to be enforced in the law now, but then I give the Chamber my word that I will preside over it the first time. Then it can see whether it is true, whether the development area is a bit organized and whether one sector is not better off than the other. Then the Chamber will have a debate with me on this. I think that is necessary for the confidence of the Chamber and that it is good for the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mrs Lodder, I am the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling, because this is his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u143	I think it's very creative, so I'd like to take over the Secretary of State's suggestion. We will amend the amendment on the basis of what the Secretary of State has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u144	An alternative is that you do not submit it as an amendment, but that, if I may make a request to you, you withdraw the amendment and then submit a motion in which you record it. I understand that you want to record it, but a motion would be better given its one-off character. It's a bit of a shame to get something you do once, in a law, when you can just agree to it, with a motion, signed with blood.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u145	Well, you don't have to, you know, in parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u146	We won't refuse the birthday boy. We'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u148	The Smaling amendment (Doc. 33) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u149	I thank the Secretary of State for this commitment. I think it is indeed a workable suggestion. However, I would like confirmation from the Secretary of State that this clearly reflects the distribution of the various sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u150	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u151	I have saved two questions on the allocation of the development area.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u152	Shall we do one question at a time? That's more straightforward.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u153	I'm gonna do my best. My first question is very legal, I admit it, so the Secretary of State can also answer in the second term. Is the allocation of the development area considered as a mitigating measure or a compensatory measure? If it is a compensatory measure, we will get into a mess with the Habitats Directive. This is crucial if we are to know whether this allocation will continue under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u154	Is it a compensatory or mitigating measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u155	I don't know. I'll have to check.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u156	The answer comes in second term. What is your second question, Mrs Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u157	I continue to struggle with the content and allocation of the development area, despite the Secretary of State's commitment to the PAS once in a while. Entrepreneurs are, of course, very dependent on what happens in the provinces. In what way can we anchor a specific area or, in this case, a specific province or specific provinces not be held responsible for the import of the nitrogen deposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u158	We can't just anchor that now. To this day, legal rulings are being made on this issue. So I cannot simply eliminate the effects of legislation or regulation. We could try to solve it politically. For example, I recently travelled to Flanders to discuss with the Flemish Prime Minister whether it would be wise to consider whether we could organise the same PAS system in Flanders. We will have to consider, in consultation with Flanders, to what extent we can prevent this, because that is what this is all about: that the province of Zeeland is in trouble with development space because the nitrogen deposition from Flanders is, as it were, included. Even without PAS, that's a problem. Again, in all kinds of statements, sometimes also statements that are being made now, we see that we are dealing with cross-border depositions again and again. The PAS is not necessarily a panacea against all ailments. But we already have the problem. I think it would be wise to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u159	Not only the province of Zeeland, but also other provinces have to contend with this. The administrative intention of this Secretary of State is greatly appreciated, but does the Secretary of State agree that it is ultimately about what we have agreed with each other and about what problems or directions different provinces stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u160	But it's the other way around. The deposition from the Netherlands also affects space in other countries. That's a problem. We have to face that. It's just that the PAS isn't the panacea against all the ailments. It also appears to have a real effect in the current authorisation. I'm working to see if we can handle it administratively, but it's not just a matter of resolving it through the bill, also given the case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u161	In the future, there is scope to be created if there are new technological developments that are also included in the model. There are now agreements on emission reductions, stables, manure injections and that sort of thing. I ask a general question about the Secretary of State's attitude to new developments. It is essential that they are taken as quickly as possible. It all has to be proven first, because otherwise there is an air bike business. Is the Secretary of State prepared to pursue this process very positively instead of stopping it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u162	Yes, please. That is one of the reasons why I sometimes hesitate to use the AMvB instrument in relation to a ministerial arrangement. After all, that limits my flexibility in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u163	I believe that everyone is pleased with emission reduction and with new technologies that lead to less accumulation of space. I can imagine that the Secretary of State will be given the opportunity to do so as quickly as possible, precisely in the case of those things on which the politically unambiguous is positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u164	I'd love that. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u165	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u166	Again, concerns have also been expressed in the context of whether the provinces are prioritising properly. I expect provinces to take responsibility for this and provide a good basis for the selection of provincial projects. The distribution of development space in segment 2 does not distinguish by sector either. If you did, there would be a lot of bulkheads in the development area and that would make the system unworkable. With the amendment in part No. The objective of Mr Smaling's 23 is to ensure that agricultural development area is given priority to nature-friendly farmers. That may be a sympathetic thought, but there are other frameworks for that than this bill. This bill deals with the management of nitrogen problems. I say it very clearly: also nature-friendly farming and dairy farms with, for example, extensive grazing...................................................................................................................................................................................... Against this background, there is no justification for giving priority to this. That is why I reject this amendment. Mr Smaling's amendment deals with item No. 24 that no development space is given priority to mega-stables. Again, this consideration is primarily made at provincial level. I therefore advise against this amendment. I am now going to make an tedious attempt to respond to the amendment on item No. 43), an amendment tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber to the amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 447 final - Doc. 34 replaces. This amendment introduces the criteria for reserving development space into the law itself, and not into an AMvB. This makes it clear what the criteria are. I prefer this to the amendment on item No. 38 by Mrs Ouwehand, because that amendment includes the list of priority projects themselves in the law. In the amendment to item No. 43 is made clear what the criteria are for eligibility as a priority project. I agree with the content of this amendment and therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u167	The amendment in part No. 43: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u168	I now come to the development area and the external netting. Mr Smaling asked whether we could allow the external netting of the space awarded. The PAS is based on the real situation and there must therefore be a real reduction in nitrogen deposition in order to create development space. That is not the case in Mr Smaling's situation, because he wants to see an external breakdown. Mrs Van Veldhoven is asking whether we can act in the area of development. No, that's not the case. A company is transferable and the permit is in such a case. By the way, that permit is locational again. Mr Dijkgraaf asks why the resources of development space per area are not always possible. The impact of nitrogen on a habitat or habitat in a Natura 2000 site is decisive. Resources within a sub-area with a specific habitat or habitat may be possible, but not across a whole area with different habitats and habitats.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u169	I have indeed asked whether there can be trade in space. However, I was mainly referring to the possibility of an entrepreneur investing in creating extra space. This could partly benefit nature, but if the entrepreneur were to be allowed to market that space, it could also lead to a win-win situation. In other words, how do you encourage entrepreneurs to invest in techniques to deal with nitrogen emissions even more efficiently? Perhaps that can also benefit nature. Is it possible to finance this by making part of it negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u170	That's not in the bill. The legislative proposal is complicated enough and I do not know whether it is advisable to make it even more complicated. I understand that Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to drive innovation. Innovation seems to me to be very desirable in itself. However, the legislative proposal is about licensing and what will be dealt with is the fact that allocated development space in this bill is not negotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u171	A clear answer. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reconsider that point which she mentioned as interesting? It doesn't need to be incorporated into the law now. It may not even need to be incorporated into the law later, as it can also become part of the talks with the provinces. I hope, however, that we do not put this proposal to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u172	I'd like that. It is always good to think about how to stimulate or excite entrepreneurs to contribute to resource policy as a way to organise more development space. For all kinds of reasons, I do not think it is wise to tax the present legislative proposal in advance. If we did that, we would only complicate the discussion. And we've already established that it's quite a difficult discussion. Mrs Jacobi and Mrs Van Veldhoven have asked whether the polluter pays principle is being properly respected. The PAS is dedicated to this. The reduction in nitrogen emissions and the improvement of nature are largely due to the contribution made by the agricultural and transport sectors, as well as by land managers. This is precisely what allows development space to be allocated. One deserves the space that is being spent. A number of questions have been asked about the operation of the PAS. That's the next block. Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Lodders and Mr Geurts asked about the timetable for the PAS. In the letter of 1 April, I informed you that, although the PAS is advanced, the programme and the analyses of the regions are being carefully examined and improved for the purposes of monitoring. On 18 March I signed a covenant with the sector on generic agricultural measures. There are a lot of actions going on. A concept of the EIA plan has been drawn up with the exception of the nitrogen paragraph. This is formed by the appropriate assessment of the PAS, the area analyses of which will be part. The plan EIA and the appropriate assessment may be finalised once the area analyses have been completed. Before the summer recess, the parties concerned will make administrative agreements on the size and distribution of the development area at field level. That is a subject which, of course, is also of interest to the Chamber. In mid-September, the Design Programme Approach Nitrogen, together with the EIA plan, will be presented with the appropriate assessment and the area analyses. Indeed, I say again to Mr Geurts, the programme also contains a socio-economic paragraph. The commitment of the provinces, of the Minister of I and M and of me, is fully aimed at enabling the PAS to enter into force this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u173	I hear the Secretary of State say that she wants to agree on the size of the development area at the level of the area before the summer. Can she explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u174	Yeah, that's how it is. Before the summer recess, we will agree with administrative parties on the size and distribution of the development area at field level. You asked what it would look like in practice. That is what we want to lay down in administrative agreements. Now I come to the shelf life of the PAS. The ecological underpinning of the site analyses is essential for a well-functioning and legally sustainable PAS. Mrs Jacobi, Mr Dijkgraaf and others have rightly pointed this out. The Advocate General of the European Court has recently delivered an Opinion in the so-called A2 case. This conclusion makes it clear that site analyses should ensure that the natural characteristics of the Natura 2000 site in question are not affected. In an area, no quality or size habitat should deteriorate at any site, even if measures at another site in the area increase the same habitat in area or quality. In order to obtain certainty as to whether the field analyses are sufficient on these points, we are now reviewing all the field analyses once again. Where this is necessary, we will improve it and therefore better support it. Moreover, it is expected that this will only lead to adjustments in a single area. The objective of this whole operation is to ensure that individual permits based on the PAS are maintained in court. Mr Smaling referred to provincial review frameworks, which have proved vulnerable in legal proceedings. That's been mentioned before today. These experiences underline the importance of the national approach of the PAS. Where it has so far gone wrong, that has also been noted by some speakers, is that the provincial approach was not sufficiently comprehensive and, for example, did not include all the emission sources in the approach. Of course, the PAS has to do that. The success of the PAS depends on ensuring that the measures are implemented in the agreed time and in the agreed manner. Such assurance must be as far as possible in order to establish the PAS. At the time of the monitoring of the PAS in September, I can clarify the way in which all the measures have been secured. Mrs. Lodders asked for that, too. To the extent that measures have to be taken by parties who do not have to agree with the PAS, you have to think of, for example, the waterboards or the land managers, which will be secured by underlying agreements. For that, the provinces are at the bar. I shall now turn to the amendment to item No. 39.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u175	I believe that this is a very good time to involve the specific situation with abroad. Foreign countries are not going to determine our PASs, but can play a very important role in it. We have mentioned Zeeland, but also Schiermonnikoog. I can imagine that these regions want to be legally secure rather than in separate agreements. They've already indicated that they wouldn't be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u176	I understand. I would like to say once again that the situation with foreign countries is already taking place, apart from the PAS. We will have to talk about this and see how we can mitigate the impact on all areas, including an area such as Schiermonnikoog. We are doing this very well in the PAS itself, with, for example, stable requirements and a tightening up of exit measures. The fifth action programme is also in the PAS, you might say. Those are the steering instruments that Mrs Jacobi asked about, of course, which we also have ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u177	Let me get this straight. I assume that all the efforts are being made here to solve that problem. Does the Secretary of State want to look very specifically at the situation in Zeeland? In Zeeuws-Vlaanderen there are areas in which 70% of the nitrogen deposition comes from the port and surroundings of Antwerp. It seems to me right that the Secretary of State should make a commitment here on how to serve Zeeland in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u178	I had already started, also because I share that concern of course. Mrs Lodders also spoke about this. What I can do and what is in my capacity to contribute, I will do so. That is why I consulted the Flemish Prime Minister on this matter a few weeks ago. We are now working from Economic Affairs, together with officials from Flanders, to see how we can continue to work together in this area. I have also, of course, consulted with the representatives of Zeeland in this case on this whole issue and I am very willing to keep your Chamber firmly informed of this. Once again, it has to be said here: I understand that this problem is now coming forward, but that is separate from the PAS, because we have that problem anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u179	The Secretary of State will come back later to the European Court of Justice when examining the field analyses, but this ruling may also have an impact on the mitigating measures. There is only a mitigating measure if it is very closely linked to the project. That's a general thing, which isn't directly linked to the field analyses. How's the Secretary of State handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u180	That is one of the reasons why we want to check all these analyses again. The Advocate General's ruling will be taken over in the short term or not. The experience is that it is usually taken over. We want to see what effect it has on the legal sustainability of the PAS. That is why we are doing that extra check of all the analyses. There are a number of exciting elements in the process that is yet to come. It seems to me appropriate to keep the Chamber informed on this point, as in the case of Flanders, of the progress made. The question is what it will yield in the process, because that is not entirely predictable now. We must, of course, do the screening first.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u181	I can imagine that when it comes to an area in which there is a positive and a negative development and you combine it with one another. The question is, may I? Suppose you have a mitigating measure, for example a hydrological measure. Can it be considered as a mitigating measure for a project? When I read that statement, I think it's only allowed if it's closely linked to that project. That is a slightly different question, namely whether it is mitigating or countervailing. If it is compensatory, it can only be done if it is also a significant project and not if it is smaller projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u182	I have just said in reply to Mrs Lodder's questions that I will return to this in the second term. The verdict is only just here and it's still in procedure. It still needs to be formally taken over. It has potential effect. It is not for nothing that we want to re-examine all these regional analyses, if only for this reason. I think it is important not to make too firm a statement about this too quickly. I don't want to unnecessarily restrict my own space here either. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf will forgive me. That is, of course, part of the whole legal side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u183	Since it's the Secretary of State's birthday, I'm very forgiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u184	I would expect you to always be, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u185	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u186	Of course, I can hear the story with lead ears. Of course, we want this whole PAS, Natura 2000 and everything about the fence, but that is not the way it is. We do not have a majority in this Parliament and there is also a cordon plumbing at the moment, which means that we have even less influence at the moment. The elections will be different in a few days. I have one more question. In my first term, I spoke with the Secretary of State about the Bunder and Elsloerbos. I was talking about that 300-metre fertilization-free zone. Will the Secretary of State answer this question? Does the Commission intend to examine alternatives to this fertilising-free zone, which is a very heavy financial and economic burden on the agricultural operators there? Of course, I would prefer her to abandon it, but that pleasure will not have been given to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u187	I'm afraid not. I now have no answer to this specific question in my set. Sometimes we do indeed need to take measures to restore nature which can be profound. I can just imagine that this is an example of that. There is always an overall view of how the measures can be kept feasible and affordable, including in the field analyses and management plans. If there are alternatives that are equally effective, this can be chosen. Sometimes, however, you notice that you are at the limit of what is left of alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u188	These are rich measures and alternatives to them. Studies have been carried out in Limburg by the water supply company there which showed that there was already less leaching of nitrates and phosphates by the use of alternatives. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider alternatives to fertilising-free zones and to participate in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u189	I just can't see what I'm gonna promise right now. Our general attitude is that where appropriate measures are concerned, we are always prepared to examine alternatives, provided they have the same ecological impact. That is what this is all about. Otherwise, of course, there's no point. I say again that fertilising free zones will soon be present in a few more areas. They will not only be part of the management plan in the area referred to by Mr Graus. I'm afraid I can't make him happier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u190	It is not about Mr Graus, of course, but about agricultural entrepreneurs. The boys, the farmers there say: this is financial and economic simply not bearable for us. They say: there really must be alternatives and we really must get rid of that fertilising-free zone. If the Secretary of State doesn't do it for me, let her do it for the farmers!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes of course, please, but it must fit at the same time, literally, within what we agree on about the recovery of nature. Sometimes you see it gets exciting at that point. It will therefore be exciting for the farmers. I understand, but I can't take that away. What we can do is consult the farmers as much as possible. That is happening now in the places where it is difficult. That way, we need to figure out how to get out. However, sometimes such measures need to be taken because nature requires them in such a case. I come to the amendment to item No. 39, members Dijkgraaf, Lodders, Geurts and Graus. We talked about legal sustainability. I myself am therefore in favour of this amendment as well. In other words, the amendment seeks to preserve the possibility of external netting and an exception to the prior appropriate assessment for nitrogen aspects. The applicants do so for two reasons. They want to take into account the possibility that not all relevant areas will be included in the PAS. They also want to take into account the possibility that authorisation decisions allocating development space are not legally sustainable. I also asked the Council of State for information on this amendment. He's critical. According to the Council of State, the amendment leads to incomplete implementation of the Habitats Directive. It may also impair the effectiveness of the PAS and the tightening of housing requirements for livestock farming. The amendment is precisely what we are trying to prevent, namely that the PAS does not work. My reaction is, therefore, that it is precisely the power of the PAS that it contains a nation-wide coherent approach to solving the problem of nitrogen in order to facilitate the granting of permits. The nitrogen tax is a national problem and not just a local or regional problem. For this reason too, the Chamber said in 2010: get on with the PAS. By allowing external netting in individual cases, that connection is broken. After all, that actually puts two systems in one legislative proposal. In view of the opinion of the Council of State, which I have just mentioned and which I cannot fail to understand, I must, unfortunately, advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u192	You don't give much treats on your birthday, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u193	Yeah, I'm sorry about that, too. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u194	We, too, of course, have read the opinion of the Council of State. Let me start with the general point. I said here a long time ago that we do not claim that this should be put next to the PAS. It is intended as a backdrop in case the PAS is stuck in an area. So that is quite different from putting a system next to it in general. I would not like to do that, and that is not what the amendment says. The Council of State has two criticisms. First of all, one wonders whether the double counting is clear. Secondly, there is the question of whether there is a permit at all. I intend to amend the amendment on those two points. The Secretary of State will not be able to respond to that now, but I think it is relevant to report it now. Once the amended amendment has been tabled, the Secretary of State will undoubtedly respond in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u195	I will do so, because I cannot see now what that amendment will do to that amendment. But in general terms, I think the criticism of the Council of State was that the legislative proposal should not create uncertainty about technology. Even if the amendment is amended, that uncertainty can persist. That's what we have to watch out for. But that is ahead of what Mr Dijkgraaf can do, and I should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u196	That could be. But, of course, we are going to do so in such a way that that uncertainty is completely removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u197	I wish Mr Dijkgraaf every success. Several questions have been asked about the principles of the calculation of the deposition decrease. Those questions were about the projected decrease in nitrogen deposition. This forecast has been carried out on the basis of the best available scientific data. It covers the period up to 2030. Overall, the nitrogen deposition will be reduced by approximately 21%. The forecast is based on established planned national and European policies, and on annual economic growth of 2.5% to 2020 and 2.2% from 2021 to 2030. The PAS calculations shall take account of the expiry of milk quotas. By the way, I would like to say to a number of Members that the PAS is not intended to regulate the size of livestock. Maybe it's good to keep an eye on the target. We are now working on AERIUS 1.7, and we hope that this will further increase the reliability and predictability of the system. AERIUS and its components have been validated by TNO, among others. Mrs. Lodders asked about the pilots in Zeeland and Friesland. When these relevant additional insights yield, I will of course share them with this Chamber. We have already talked about agricultural measures. These are aimed at reducing the nitrogen deposition. This is about tightening up the emission values for stables and the manure application rules. The latter already knows the Chamber, because they are part of the Fifth Action Programme. On 18 March last, I concluded an agreement with various sectoral organisations which included the agreed measures. The PAS also takes into account the effects of the voluntary feed and management measures, which should result in an ammonia reduction of 10 kilotons. Of these 56%, Mr Geurts had it exactly right, to the benefit of the development area in the agricultural sector. We're going to monitor that very well. Against Mr Graus: grazing is certainly possible. We both think that's very important. As far as the critical deposition value is concerned, I have just found that I am not recommending the amendment to item 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u198	You said that the amendment to item 37 is not recommended?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u199	Yes. The existing law already states that the PAS has a duration of six years. That is what the current field analyses are based on. The PAS is going to offer a look-through to the next PAS period. For zoning plans, this can be taken back. There is a newly discussed amendment tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven, in which more room is created to gain insight into the course of events. The viewing is thus legally more firmly anchored. How do we still steer the issue of development space? At the start of the PAS we determine the maximum development space that nature can have for each area. This gives room for a pre-defined target after priority projects of the Empire and provinces. The remaining part shall be the space from which applications are granted. The AERIUS system records the issue exactly when the issue should take place. So that's very accurate. Furthermore, the provinces lay down policy rules to prevent space from just running out. That's also important. You can do that by setting, for example, a ceiling on the space per permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u200	The Secretary of State noted that in the current law the PAS term is six years. Isn't that what the Secretary of State's saying is that this is the case in the current bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u202	That is different from the fact that that deadline is already enshrined in the law. That's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u203	You are absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u204	You scared the shit out of me for a while. That's why I needed to think about it a little longer. My question is very specific. Is it possible to turn a button like that? I know we've talked about this before. If we now say yes to a six-year period, it is actually enshrined in the law. Destination plans shall be valid for a period of 10 years. That's already problematic. The shorter the period, the more limited the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u205	The answer is yes, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u206	So the answer is that the six-year period for the PAS can be extended to nine years, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u207	But then you have to do the area analyses... I'm going to do this in second term anyway, because there's a lot of technique attached to it. I have to say it very precisely. It may be, you can turn on it, but I also need to visualize to the Chamber under what conditions that can be and what the consequences are. There may be, but I would like to say it very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u208	We'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u209	Almost a promise!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u210	"Almost" is not "total," Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u211	I come to the amendment on the suspension of the PAS. I have already responded to that. We've already had that. Several members also called for attention to be paid to the international level playing field. An international approach to the problem of nitrogen and the protection of nature is essential. In principle, the different directives provide a level playing field for the objectives to be achieved. However, the situations in the European Member States are not always comparable. The Netherlands has a very intensive use of space. We have a lot of areas that are relatively heavily overloaded by nitrogen deposition. The PAS is therefore necessary to achieve both the nature goals and the economic goals. The Netherlands is not stricter than other countries. However, I think it is good to use the fitness check for the Birds and Habitats Directives to propose improvements to workability in practice. Several members asked for a single point of contact for activities affecting Natura 2000 sites in more provinces. What do you do if there is a cross-border problem in the province? This bill is an answer to that. The main rule is that Deputy States of the province in which a Natura 2000 site is wholly or largely located that may suffer damage decide on an application. If the consequences occur mainly in another province, the Deputy States of that province are competent. Taking into account international obligations, Dept States shall also include the impact of the activity on Natura 2000 sites in other provinces in the examination of the application for authorisation. I think I have come to the end of my first term, except for one point. Mr Graus asked a question about a phosphate bank, with the aim of extracting phosphate from manure and urine from animals. Mr Graus is quite right, moreover, that the world stock of mineral phosphate is finite. The Netherlands still has a manure surplus at the moment, but the recovery of phosphate from organic residues must indeed be encouraged. I hope that the business community will take up the glove in that respect. So I do not intend to set up a phosphate bank myself, but I think it is very good that Mr Graus should draw attention to this issue and that the business community might be able to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u212	Then there is no manure surplus either. I'd really like to get rid of that. There's no manure surplus. Manure is the brown gold when we extract the phosphates from it; this also applies to the urine of animals. We will soon depend on the mining industry in Morocco and, in my opinion, in China. This is necessary, because this is a primary need for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u213	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u214	Does the Secretary of State wish to consult with the sector so that we can move away from the term "fat surplus" and turn it into "brown gold" by starting phosphate storage and phosphate banks for the future? She's leading on this point, isn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u215	I agree with Mr Graus that manure has much more potential than we sometimes think or what we are talking about. At the same time, I would ask for recognition for the fact that we are now dealing with a problem too much manure. We agree that we need to recover the valuable raw materials or organic substances. That is where we find each other completely. I do not think that industry should really take the lead in this respect. At the same time, we must note that we must also do something about the harmful effects of manure, because they are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u216	I understand that, but oxygen and phosphates are really among the primary necessities of life that a human being can't live without.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u217	I agree, but there is no discussion about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u218	That is why I am asking whether the Secretary of State or the Government can take the initiative to see how we can better store phosphates, so that we can have phosphate banks in order not to be dependent on other countries in the future. I have also said to your predecessor, Minister Verburg, that the other substances of manure can even be made from Dutch clogs. Let's face it, if we were gonna do that, the Asians would love that. In Africa they build houses of manure. I don't want to go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u219	Your question is clear: does the Secretary of State wish to stimulate industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u220	And also the energy pallets. I've asked a lot wider than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u221	That is not Mr Graus' question. Mr Graus is not asking if I want to encourage, because I would like to do so wholeheartedly. Mr Graus asked whether the government would like to set up a phosphate bank. My answer to that was no.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u222	I always like how Mr Graus can change the debate at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u223	That's pretty good, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u224	Okay, let's get this over with. You said something about the competent authority, which I asked a question about in my first term. I get the answer, because I gave it to you. In practice, however, we see companies getting into trouble, for example in Limburg. In that area, the big problem lies in Germany, which would then suddenly become competent authority. Can we just say that the province in which the company is located becomes the competent authority? The Secretary of State now says that the province in which the Natura 2000 site is located is the competent authority, unless the effects occur mainly in another province. At the moment, we are very disappointed that this is going to go wrong. Perhaps the Secretary of State could comment on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u225	I will, but the line I have just mentioned applies here. I don't think that line is new either. That too is important. We can change a lot of things, but before you know it, you're making the system more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u226	I'm trying to make it more practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u227	I understand. I'll go into it, but, again, it's not easy to just change things.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u228	Another question remains about the farmers on Schiermonnikoog. Mr Dijkgraaf has already spoken about geese. I said in my contribution that 12,000 geese are driving away the farmers of the island. I haven't heard from the Secretary of State about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u229	That problem is not caused or resolved by this bill. I regularly talk to the Chamber about the goose problem and its consequences, because they are sometimes very large. That is why it would have been very nice if an agreement had been reached. I'm afraid that didn't work out. However, I am not going to solve this today. I can see those effects, but they're also there without PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u230	I have another question about transitional rights. I am referring to companies which purchase ammonia duty until the entry into force of the PAS and may not be licensed. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with that? If I've read it correctly, there's nothing in the law. The question is, how do you deal with that existing situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u231	I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u232	I have another question about the different habitat types. I said in the first term that part of it can be kept suitable by grazing or mowing. That's an extra button you can push. However, there are also habitat types where this is not possible. Is that where you get a whole different regime? Is it going to be much more difficult to create development space there anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u233	You're gonna see differences, but you're gonna see differences now. It is a problem for some areas and not for others. Nor is there an automatic problem for all Natura 2000 sites. This has to do with the habitat type and the vulnerability of the area, but also with the type of activities in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u234	We have debated very much the substance of the legislative proposal. The Secretary of State has made a number of commitments. However, I continue to wrestle with the question of why we should now deal with this law when many cases have not yet been dealt with or need to be taken up. I refer, for example, to the field analyses, the administrative consultations and the agreements with the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u235	In the end, its effect does not affect the basis that we regulate in this law. If you want to keep pace at some point in the process of the entry into force of the law, then it is important that the Chamber handle this bill now. I have tried to put forward a proposal on the issues that are still under discussion or for which underlying regulations need to be introduced, in such a way as to ensure that the Chamber continues to send as much as possible. That does not prevent a decision on the legislative proposal as such. I think it is important that there should also be a signal from Parliament, also in the direction of everyone else involved, that we are trying to bring this to a successful conclusion. That is why we must support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u236	I understand. I also understand the Secretary of State's call to send out that powerful signal. I assume that we agree that we want to facilitate the granting of licences, but my question remains what we will achieve if we lay down something in the law which turns out to be an empty shell. Again, a number of things still need to be worked out. Furthermore, the Secretary of State has promised to return to a number of points raised in the first term in the second term. An extension of the PAS period is crucial to know what we are anchoring in the law at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u237	I don't think it's an empty shell. I think we're just trying to fill that shell together. Mrs Lodders is now asking me to give influence to the Chamber. She doesn't want to agree to anything right now and then see how the whole process comes to an end. In my view, with the appeal to Mr Smaling and with my opinions on several amendments, I have at least made an attempt to contribute to the maximum in the process of creating that room for the Chamber. That's the point. I will come back to that deadline in the second term. For the rest, we are not talking so much about a discussion about the legal basis as about everything that is going to be filled out below.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u238	During the term of the Secretary of State, my last three amendments were distributed. Has she received it, perhaps, so that we can hear a judgment about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u239	No, I haven't had a chance to look at that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u240	We'll do that in the second term. We have not been properly informed of the opinion of the amendment on item No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u241	I thought it was Mr Smaling's amendment to item No. 33 went. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u242	No, there are two amendments. The amendment in part No. 33 by Mr Smaling has been withdrawn by him. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. We have not yet received a judgment. The Secretary of State may also do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u243	I'll see if I can get those pieces by hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u244	Shall we just do that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u245	Yeah, I'll do that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u246	I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u247	In my view, this was the same reasoning as in the amendment to item No. 33. In the amendment to item No. 30 is specifically arranged for the front. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Smaling for both of these amendments, to be dealt with in the Rules of Procedure. 30 and 33, in favour of a motion in which he asks me to realize a veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u248	The amendment in part No. 33 Mr Smaling has already withdrawn. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 30, I think he's gonna think for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u249	Yes. That's good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u250	This has put an end to the government's first term. We shall suspend for about ten minutes before we proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u251	We will now begin with the second term of the Chamber. Mr Graus of the PVV Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all her answers. I am very pleased that she is at least in favour of the possible 'phosphate bank', whatever it may look like. I am very grateful that the Secretary of State wants to encourage them from the government. I would like to table a number of not too long motions. I would like to inform the clerks that in my first motion I deliberately wrote the word 'ur-Hollands' with'sch'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to take back control of our "ur-Hollandish" landscapes in (national) hands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to refrain from further implementing Natura 2000 legislation as it shows how much damage our farmers and our economy are suffering without achieving the natural objectives achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposal to establish a non-fertilisation zone of 300 metres east of the Natura 2000 area of Bunder- and Elsloerbos is unnecessary and unnecessary because other national rules already provide for the intended purpose;]] [[Whereas in South Limburg alternative measures have been taken in a pilot project of the water supply company to achieve a very large reduction in nitrate and phosphate leaching to groundwater;]] [[Whereas, moreover, a non-fertilising area of 300 metres is not proportionate and the financial and economic consequences for the agricultural operators concerned cannot be assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the 300 meter fertilising free zone in the draft management plan for the Bunder and Elsloerbos east of this area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to no longer consider stool from farm animals as a waste but as a very valuable building, energy and raw material rich in scarce phosphates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether alternatives can be found in the management plan of the Natura 2000 area of Bunder- and Elsloerbos for a 300 meter fertilising free zone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-50]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u253	So much for my motions. My fourth motion was already a bit of a stepping stone to that phosphate bank. My last motion is for us a kind of second best, because we are against that fertilising-free zone. But yeah, you have to settle for a possible second once in a while. Finally, I would like to wish the Secretary of State a very happy birthday, and all happiness, love and good health, including for the rest of her family. And from here, I would also like to wish our Minister for Economic Affairs well. I understand it's hard to say that it's all more serious than we thought. I would therefore like to wish him well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u254	Thank you. I think these wishes are supported by the entire Chamber. I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u255	Mr. Chairman. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is ideally a win-win approach. That doesn't mean doing things any less, but doing things smarter. I also welcome the debate we have had on this issue. I have tabled an amendment for a so-called roof tile construction to ensure that we give entrepreneurs more prospects than just the first three-year period. More generally, I think it is important that we also try to learn from the first period of the PAS, the first six years, and that after those six years we also see what lessons can be learned for the next period of the PAS. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that evaluation of the Programmed Approach Nitrogen (PAS) has not yet been foreseen;]] [[Whereas this is also desirable in view of the social interest surrounding the PAS;]] [[calls on the Government to review the PAS after the first six-year period;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account, in any event, whether the direct and indirect public costs incurred for the PAS, such as those for recovery measures leading to economic development space, are proportionate to the added economic value, and to assess whether this should then be considered as State aid for economic development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u256	Then I have a motion on issue and compensation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that under the Programmed Approach Nitrogen provinces have the power to decide for themselves who is to be allocated development space;]] [[Whereas ideally from this distribution there is an incentive to manage this area efficiently and to minimise the burden on nature;]] [[Whereas, moreover, differences between provinces will arise, but there is no need to find out about the wheel everywhere;]] [[Calls on the Government, with the provinces, to consult on the exchange of best practices for the most efficient use of nitrogen space and on the criteria used for issuing development space under the PAS with a view to promoting legal equality in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how the issue can also be based on an incentive that rewards companies that achieve far-reaching emission reductions;]] [[invites the Government to keep the Chamber informed by letter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u257	The Secretary of State has, moreover, opened the debate in my direction in order to have this discussion. I therefore hope that she will see this motion as a support. If at some point in the motion she feels that this is not the case, I would like to hear it, because I think we share the intention to go in the same direction. Then the point of the polluter pays. That is an important point in establishing this PAS but at all when taking this kind of action. We are taking measures, but there are also considerable amounts of public money put into it. I think it is very important that we know for sure whether it is a state aid issue. The issues of unlawful state aid are very broad. It therefore seems very important to me to pass a test before the PAS enters into force, otherwise we will put entrepreneurs in a situation in which they will be faced with costs that are attributed to them afterwards. Maybe the money corresponds exactly to the profits for nature and we don't suffer from anything, but I'd really like to see that passing on. That's why I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that public expenditure on nature management under the Programmed Approach Nitrogen (PAS) may lead to the creation of economic development space;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether such expenditure may constitute State aid;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a State aid test on this and to inform the Court of Justice of the introduction of the PAS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u258	Finally, I would like to make two brief comments. In the first term, the Secretary of State promised me that I would return to the status of the interim workers. There was another point on which we would have a further discussion, and that concerns the recovery measures. Still thinking about how to formulate this question even more clearly, I think it is at the heart of the question whether the recovery measures now allow for annual additional emissions or cumulative additional emissions. In other words, if you take recovery measures by plagging in a nature reserve, does this mean that it will provide structural space for the farmer to put 100 cows in the meadows nearby, for example? Or does it, when a farmer adds 100 cows, provide a space that is filled cumulatively each year for a small piece? If that is the case, we also need to know how long we can go forward with our recovery measures, when new investments need to be made and what that means for the total financial picture of the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u259	Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with a complex matter, which, I think, is clear. The chairman hinted at it. She said "I don't quite get it," but I don't think she's the only one, because it's really very complex. A hundred years ago John Maynard Keynes said: in a hundred years' time, so now everyone is working 28 hours a week; the rest of the time they are gardening, making nature walks and recreating. However, if you look at how we are trying to match nature, agriculture, industry and traffic in this country, you will see that we are still a long way from the sightseeing of John Maynard Keynes. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a high degree of uncertainty about actual nitrogen depositions on nitrogen-sensitive habitat types and a strong assumption of expectations and not of hard data;]] [[noting the current "front-side" approach by recording emissions on the one hand and allocating them through the concept of "development space" on the other;]] [[fearing that this will result in a legally extremely vulnerable law;]] [[calls on the Government to demonstrate that the system works by placing in each nitrogen-sensitive habitat type instruments that measure and monitor nitrogen deposition and from there establish the connection to the source,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u260	This motion is a slightly light translation of the amendment to item No. 33 that the Secretary of State has dissuaded. I hope, however, that she will be able to endorse the usefulness of some kind of monitoring. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas solitary, common agricultural holdings around nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 areas where a large number of land is already under management at State Forestry or Nature Organisations can make a significant gap in the natural and recreational value of the area;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the farmer either moves to low-emission forms of agriculture, or is rehoused in or outside the immediate vicinity in a way that does not benefit financially;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u261	Thank you. My third motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas agricultural holdings in the immediate vicinity of Natura 2000 nitrogen-sensitive areas will have little or no real potential for expansion and will be required to report on small developments;]] [[calls on the government, with agricultural collectives and nature organisations, to consider the extent to which low-emission buffer zones can be sought around these Natura 2000 sites and to facilitate the transition for the farmers concerned through targeted use of CAP greening resources and POP3 funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in 2010 research showed that the use of air scrubbers and low-emission fertilising techniques in the province of North Brabant was far behind the obligations;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for the Environment spoke at the time of "a large monitoring and short-term monitoring of air scrubbers in intensive livestock farming";]] [[Considering that the high peat content of the Natura 2000 areas of Deurnsche Peel & Mariapeel and Groote Peel benefits from low-food water, that no recovery measures are possible such as mowing and grazing and that nitrogen emissions around this area are very high due to the high number of pig farms;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the conservation objectives of the Natura 2000 areas of Deurnsche Peel & Mariapeel and Groote Peel are achieved in spite of this situation and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that these areas not only have a conservative value, but also have a recreational and educational function;]] [[invites the government, with the provinces of Drenthe, Overijssel and Limburg, to consider whether it is possible to set up ludic and educational cycling routes and green space projects around Beilen (eight Natura 2000 sites), Oldenzaal (elf areas) and Valkenburg (nine areas), and to encourage schools from the Randstad to include working weeks in these areas in the curriculum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Jacobi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Jacobi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u262	The last motion is a translation of the amendment on which I had a brief interruption debate with the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government, the "Programme" PAS and ministerial arrangements with a substantial policy-based component of the present amendment to the Nature Protection Act 1998 (Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen) to be submitted to the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from making substantial policy changes to the PAS (Ministerial Arrangement) without submitting them to the Chamber in its submission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Jacobi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u263	Mr. Chairman. It all started with the Koopmans/Samsom motion. It became a heavy and long-term file. I'm not used to the introduction of former colleague Koopmans, but he couldn't help it either. That had to do with other factors. There must be certainty for society and for entrepreneurs. At the moment, we can also see that licence applications are becoming increasingly difficult, if not at all. We in the Chamber have a very important role to play in this. We simply need to stop the fact that licences are no longer issued. We need to ensure that we get legally sustainable permits so that we can go back to business in the Netherlands. The CDA has been advocating this for several years. We believe that the PAS should be introduced with care but with some urgency. A lot of people say: the PAS has been postponed so many times, is he going to get there? That is also what I see in reports that I am getting to me during this debate. I think the Secretary of State has made a very clear statement on this this afternoon: he is going to be there. We will support the Secretary of State, provided that the second term ends well. We've found each other on the subject of ecology, social and economics. Sustainability is back on track with those three strokes. The Secretary of State indicated that the cabinet is investing in the PAS. That's right, but the provinces are actually investing a lot more financially. It's about hundreds of millions of euros. That's what I'm saying to the colleague of the Party for Animals. There is a lot of investment in nature in the Netherlands. Around the PAS, the provinces are going to invest hundreds of millions of euros. The PAS is also important for our society. I want the Chamber to remain involved in the implementation and content of the PAS. This afternoon, an important commitment was made by the cabinet. I hope that the Secretary of State will explain clearly in the second term how she sees things in the framework of the veil and so on. The CDA shall not pursue any delay in implementation. So it has to be clear. I have four more questions. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to deal with that. She talked about ministerial arrangements. What ministerial arrangements does it have in mind? What arrangements are being introduced? Maybe that could get a little more concrete. Then I have a number of specific questions. The first one is about the zoning plan. Mrs Lodders said something about this earlier in an interruption, but I am going to ask the question a little more specifically. Is a zoning plan that has a longer run than the first six-year PAS period, the chance to die at the Council of State because the development space for the second PAS period is not guaranteed? The following concrete question is: what are the possibilities for providing economic sectors with certainty about the availability of development space after the six-year PAS period? The last concrete question is: has a transitional right been included in the amended Nature Protection Act for the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen? Let me give you an example. When a road is constructed, a Nature Protection Act procedure is under way and it is not yet completed. It has not yet been completed at the entry into force of the PAS. Will the Nature Protection Act proceedings be concluded? Or should the procedure be completed under the PAS regime? That is a fairly legal question, but if we do not settle this properly, it will come up with a number of bypasses and so on in the Netherlands. Finally, I shall table three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Programmed Approach to Nitrogen includes measures leading to a reduction in nitrogen deposition and a strengthening of natural values in Natura 2000 sites;]] [[Whereas these measures will make development space available allowing the competent authorities to grant permits as referred to in Article 19d (1) of the 1998 Nature Conservation Act for projects which cause an increase in nitrogen deposition on nitrogen-sensitive habitats in Natura 2000 sites;]] [[Whereas the "generic measures related to the nitrogen programme agreement' includes measures for the agricultural sector to achieve a net reduction in ammonia emissions of at least 10 kilotons in 2030 compared to 2013;]] [[points out that 5.6 kilotons of the development area will be available for the development of agricultural holdings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social and economic aspects should be taken into account in the area analysis so that there is sufficient development space available to meet the essential needs;]] [[Whereas the note following the report states that objection and appeal against the adoption of the management plan should only concern the descriptions of acts which do not jeopardise the achievement of the conservation objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the possibility of appeal and appeal against a management plan with regard to the consideration of socio-economic factors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-63]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u264	Then I have another motion on the competent authority. I shall submit it anyway; perhaps we can come together in the second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas projects affecting several Natura 2000 sites in different provinces remain unclear as regards the competent authority;]] [[Whereas the national measurement system and the central registration of development space through AERIUS do not depend on the availability of development space in the province in which the Natura 2000 site is located;]] [[requests the Government, the province in which the holding is physically established, to be the competent authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u265	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first reply and congratulate her on her birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u266	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State. I did not bring a gift either: colleagues have already tabled motions, but I wanted to give 'no motions' as a gift. Then the pile doesn't get any higher. It is also my custom, when I receive promises, not to make any further motions on this matter. That is not to say that colleagues do so, but I am arguing from my own point of view. On other points on which I wanted something, the opposition of the Secretary of State was so great that I think: if I make a motion on this, it will not make it. My main points relate to the two amendments that have been tabled. It would be so nice now if the Secretary of State would just set up her party hat between the first and the second term and think: well, why not? When I look at the content of the amendments, I see that it should be possible. In my view, the external netting is very important as a back-up when it would go wrong in certain areas. As far as the 0.3 mole threshold is concerned, I can understand the legal argument to make it watertight, otherwise lawyers might break it open. I would then like to give the following suggestion to the Secretary of State. If you are reasoning from the legal reality, which is indeed a reality, whatever you may think of it, couldn't it be that you say: for some projects in the background position, just take that space with you in the calculations? Suppose we are talking about projects up to 0.3 moles, of an average of 0.15 moles and that we are assuming 1,000 projects, then we take 150 moles in the background position. If you do not have more than 1,000 projects covered by this scheme, it is still waterproof. Couldn't we get out that way? I find it unsatisfactory that we are now going to end up with a law that, if you are at a great distance from such a Natura 2000 site and have an impact the size of one goose poop in that area, you will have to go through the whole procedure. I am sure this is not the intention of the Secretary of State, and certainly not of the President of the Chamber, although of course she does not have an opinion on this as President. It is the intention of no one here, because we are all concerned that only significant effects require a permit and therefore not for these very small things. I therefore invite the Secretary of State to come up with a ruse with each other and not to repeat our statements. That goes for both of us, because I am also looking for a solution to allow projects that have little influence to continue, without all kinds of fuss and permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u267	I take it that Mr Dijkgraaf also does not want to see the effects, as a result of not being so great in themselves, suddenly appear to be such an excess that things are closing down. In other words, is he also mainly looking for a lightest procedure? It is then a small effort to report and we need those reports to be able to monitor and intervene before it goes wrong rather than afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u268	If you simply have to report something on a website to be able to continue, I'm fine with that. It is therefore mainly a question of what is attached to a notification of an impact which has a minor impact on such a Natura 2000 site. Maybe we can find each other on the question of what it means when you have to go into a permit procedure. I don't care if someone has to do something on a website, but it shouldn't be that you can get involved in a complicated legal procedure that also costs you by submitting all kinds of plans, especially when it comes to an effect that you say "people what are we talking about?" A thousand projects times 0.3 moles is 300 moles and that is one whole per year above a particular area. Everyone will say 'we do not want to', but then we must also ensure an easy procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u269	I share Mr Dijkgraaf's concern that you should not want this kind of thing. That might also lead to people not doing it at all and then we have no idea what is happening. So I do think it should be a very simple procedure to avoid circumvention. It seems to me a fine task for the Secretary of State to make it as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mr. Chairman. I have announced that I will amend my amendments. I will wait until I hear the Secretary of State's response in the second term. Then I will decide exactly what I am going to do with my amendments. If that leads to a significant change and if it is important to hear the opinion of the Secretary of State before the vote on this matter, she can of course give us her opinion in a letter. It would be a shame to reopen the debate only for that reason, because that does not seem to me to be so productive. I have two more points. Firstly, the German situation continues to intrigue me. Germany has a threshold of no less than 7 moles, while we are already struggling about 0.3 moles. I know, of course, that Germany is a very different and much less densely populated country, but in Germany there are indeed densely populated areas in which nature reserves are located. I understand why the comparison with the whole of Germany is so disappointing, but zooming in on parts of Germany you see a situation similar to the Netherlands. Why can't it be there and not here? I do not know whether the Secretary of State can add much to her earlier reply in the second term. If that is not the case, I can imagine that she will return to it again in a letter, for example before we deal with the AMvB's front. It remains quite difficult for farmers to deal with a completely different situation on this side of the border and on the other side of the border. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to my second and final point. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State announces that she will work out a number of issues in AMvBs and that they will come to the Chamber. It has even said that the overall package will be sent to the Chamber with priority. I think that is a very elegant solution, because it means that when we vote for the law next week, we will say to the Secretary of State: these are the contours of the law and the details will be worked out. This week we have got used to this kind of lyrics!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u271	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first reply and for the written replies sent to the Chamber between the end of the first term and today. My group is very concerned about the PAS, which we expressed in our first term. In addition, we have asked additional questions together with the SGP Group, because we are not satisfied that the PAS actually provides a solution to the issue of licensing and the restoration of natural values in the areas. Of course, this is not only due to the instrument of the PAS, but also directly to the amount of development space available. The PAS is a consequence of the way in which the Netherlands implemented Natura 2000 and that is actually the reverse world. The VVD believes that Natura 2000 policy should be re-examined and that a fundamental discussion on Natura 2000 should be launched. This is necessary because entrepreneurs are constrained in their activities and thus also employment, the number of jobs. I would like to make a motion on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Programmed Approach Nitrogen (PAS) is the result of the implementation of Natura 2000 by the Netherlands;]] [[considers that there should be a fundamental discussion on how Natura 2000 has been implemented in the Netherlands and what consequences this has led to;]] [[calls on the government to initiate this fundamental discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u272	I told you, it's the reverse world. We have implemented a directive from Europe and we are actually adding all kinds of repairs. The answer given by the Secretary of State on the development area and its commitment to it has not yet reassured my group. We are still concerned about the availability of sufficient development space for both the agricultural sector, industry and traffic. The additional questions we have put to colleagues in the SGP on this subject also do not make it clear how the available development space is being distributed, as the AERIUS 1.7 programme is still under development and there are still plenty of discussions with the provincial authorities. For my group, the question is whether there is enough development space available, crucial in order to be able to agree to the legislative proposal before us. We've just talked about the veil in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u273	I have two brief questions for Mrs Lodders. If it considers that the development space is not sufficient, how would it wish to increase it? I ask this because we are dealing with the conditions of nature. That's a fact. And if, for example, in South Holland, there is scarce development space available, should that space go to the port or should it go to the farmers, if it is a choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u274	I shall begin with the final point, the question of what choice we are making. We had a wide-ranging debate on this at the beginning of the first term. The VVD Group believes that there should be room for development. We are not going to make a choice. We consider all three categories to be of great importance. We have discussed this in detail. I do not think that this debate is relevant at the moment. Then there is the question of how I would like to increase the development area. I have also asked questions about this in the first term. I shall now come to a number of specific points. Which buttons are there in the current law or what buttons can we insert into the current law to create more development space? Of course, that depends on what you insert into the instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u275	A button is very clear, namely the amount of money you are willing to pay for nature restoration measures. Is that something the VVD would like to spend extra money on? On the other hand, the consideration of where to go, I have to say that the VVD apparently lives in a dream world, in which we do not have to make a choice and everything can be done. We know it's not. Give clarity to the entrepreneurs, Mrs Lodders! Do you think such a port is important? They are waiting for your answer there too. Or do you say to the farmers: I give you that space? We'll know what we're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u276	I note that with the current Natura 2000 policy and the way in which the Netherlands has implemented it, that is exactly what I want to say in my motion for a resolution. The Netherlands is a very different Member State from the countries around us. I think we should have been much sharper on that in the past. It cannot be that at this time, when we are looking for jobs, where we are looking for jobs where the economy shows some light, we are closing down the Netherlands. I don't think that's right, and the VVD won't choose that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u277	I have a question about the motion in which the VVD states that the Netherlands has not properly implemented Natura 2000. I really wonder what the VVD is trying to say to the entrepreneurs, where legal certainty is concerned. Indeed, we had not properly implemented the agreements made years ago. At that time, the directive was subject to direct scrutiny. In submitting this amendment, we received a report from the Council of State. It says that measures that have pushed CDA and VVD through under the previous cabinet simply cannot, because they have not properly implemented the directive. If you do not recognise that we have to comply with this obligation and pretend that we have not done it properly to entrepreneurs, then you will knowingly run risks with their legal status. These directives have been properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u278	What is your question, Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u279	Is the VVD going to continue with that game now? If that is the case, I would like to hear that Mrs Lodder is honest about her high-level play.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u280	It is absolutely not a game that the VVD plays. We have, fortunately, seen in the past period that the Natura 2000 policy has already been adapted to a number of aspects. Under the Rutte I cabinet, the VVD strongly advocated the deletion of the complementary targets. Those were parts that Brussels did not ask of us. Finally, the complementary targets have been removed under the Rutte II cabinet. We are convinced that we need to have a fundamental discussion here in the Netherlands about how the Netherlands implemented Natura 2000 in order to see whether it has done so properly. We believe that this is not the case and that there is more room. Through this motion, I call on the Cabinet to begin this discussion. Apart from that, we are now working on this bill. So I see that as a two-track policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u281	I really wonder whether Mrs Lodder simply ignores, reads or doesn't understand all the legal analyses. The core is that when the state of your nature heats backwards, the law becomes stricter and the resistance increases. There will then be less and less room for licensing. I do not understand why Mrs Lodder does not want to recognise this as part of legal certainty for entrepreneurs and continues to say that we have not done that implementation right. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u282	Mrs Ouwehand and I will not agree on that. Let us look at how the Netherlands has implemented Natura 2000. I recall the complementary goals. There are more examples. There must be a fundamental discussion about this and the VVD is very keen to have it. In the first term, I talked about companies and their existing use. In any case, the VVD wants to give a perspective on development to companies covered by existing use. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 1998 Nature Protection Act defines existing use as a use known or reasonably known to the competent authority on 31 March 2010;]] [[having noted that the competent authorities have agreed with the Memorandum of Understanding on Natura 2000 Management Plans to include existing uses in the management plans;]] [[Whereas in some areas, such as the province of Gelderland, this is still not happening and the consequence is that activities which should be covered by existing uses should now be provided with an appropriate assessment;]] [[considers that this leads to uncertainty as it has to be demonstrated that these activities do not have a significant negative impact and that they unnecessarily involve high costs for industry;]] [[calls on the Government to consult the provincial authorities to ensure that the existing use is included in the management plans;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Memorandum of Understanding on Natura 2000 Management Plans is implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u283	May I point out to Mrs Lodders that, following her motion in which she notes that the Netherlands has not properly implemented the directives, she is now bringing forward a motion which runs counter to what the directive requires of us? She can just read this in the analysis of the Council of State of the previous amendment to the Nature Protection Act: you cannot just exempt existing use from the Habitat test. So the VVD says: we didn't do well and here I have a proposal to do a little worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u284	I do not hear Mrs Ouwehand asking a question. I say again that she and I will not agree on this. We want businesses to have development space. If there is a need for a legal basis for this, then there must be one. Companies must be able to emerge from this difficult period of uncertainty. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State a few more questions. It has said that it will come back to the question of whether development space is mitigating or compensatory. I'll wait and see, and I might interrupt her when she gets back to that. We also talked about imports of nitrogen deposition. I continue to struggle with the fact that administrative agreements have been made on this matter. How can we ensure that it is clear, for example, for provinces, but also for entrepreneurs in those provinces, that these agreements have been made? In this context I mention the port of Rotterdam, I mention the agreements made in the covenant on livestock farming and I mention imports from Belgium, for example. Can the Secretary of State promise that this solution will also be anchored in that veil? In an interruption, I asked what buttons we could create to increase the development space. I have just been asked this question, but I also ask the Secretary of State once more. In my opinion, Mr Dijkgraaf has just asked sufficient supplementary questions on the amendment on the threshold. This concerns 0.3 moles and the example of the goose. This example is not intended to be funny. However, this shows how we seem to be doing on the square millimeter. During this debate, we discussed the available development space, the allocation and impact of the land use plans. My group is getting the feeling that we will soon have the PAS which, if we vote for the legislative proposal at the moment, are mainly an instrument to indicate that we want to continue with this Programmed Approach Nitrogen. At the same time, it's a shell casing. That is a difficult dilemma for my group. Soon we will have a beautiful harbour, but no development space to build the roads. Soon we will have beautiful roads, but not farms that can use those roads. I would ask the Secretary of State to re-examine, in particular, the rural development area, which is of such great importance for the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u285	Mrs Lodders of the VVD says: we want a beautiful port and we want nice activities in that port. If she makes this statement, I think she should also look at what would happen if we were not to work with the PAS. What is Mrs Lodder's solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u286	That is the question. I have already said in the first period, a few months ago, that I am very concerned about this. On the one hand, we seek the solution in the fundamental discussion on the implementation of Natura 2000 here in the Netherlands. On the other hand, Mrs Jacobi will agree with me that we cannot close the Netherlands during this period. This would be at the expense of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u287	That is precisely why Mrs Jacobi chooses the PAS. This will enable us to steer and monitor these developments properly. I note that Mrs Lodders has nothing but concerns, but no solutions. I therefore think that she should be a little more positive about the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u288	I note that Mrs Jacobi is indeed going for a PAS when we do not know how much development space there is in that PAS for the specific areas. The Secretary of State has promised that this will be returned to the Chamber by means of a veil. In any case, for my group, it is crucial that the various areas we know in the Netherlands cannot be closed down. In fact, this applies to the whole of the Netherlands. We can't use the closing of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u289	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the old Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer. Back to the source: why are we doing all this? That is precisely to make the PAS work in such a way that we get a good view of how we can reduce the nitrogen deposition, how we can serve nature and where development space can be used. That is why I do not share the concerns that have just been expressed. It is very good to be clear to our supporters that the PAS will be the instrument with which we will steer it, and that the law will come as a framework. Fortunately, we have received many commitments today to be able to fill in a large number of issues with General Management Measures. The Chamber does not just have to cross, something I would not have found acceptable, the Chamber is very much involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u290	Let me just say something about the concerns. Perhaps it is nice to recall that the previous Secretary of State, Verdaas, has also indicated that he might have to look for an alternative to the PAS. Do you still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u291	In the situation in which the PAS was then, I remember those words. I am very impressed by the developments we have experienced in the past period. Partly because of the latest technical briefing, I was particularly supported and strengthened by the way in which AERIUS works. That system now has more than a million sources. In view of all the field analyses and the Advocate General's ruling on legal sustainability, we now have the case well under way. I find it a little strange to take back after one, two, three, four years on the people who doubted the PAS. I also had some of those doubts, particularly about the workability of the PAS. Shouldn't it be an administratively unworkable situation, I wondered. The blows that have been made, with which we get a good look at the field analyses, make me say: sell the PAS as the instrument, because we are ready. So I don't have those concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u292	I hear Mrs Jacobi doesn't have that concern. I find that strange, because when we talk about AERIUS 1.5 and 1.6 we are going to work on 1.7........................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u293	If these concerns are already there, they are not about the system, but about whether there is sufficient development space in that area, where there is apparently a lot of nitrogen deposition. You have those concerns, but one is the result of the other. I don't have those concerns about the PAS anymore. By the way, you were unable to attend a large part of that technical briefing, probably due to force majeure. That was very unfortunate, because there many of these doubts were removed. I mentioned three concerns in the first term, including the reservation room. I asked for that space not to be set between 90% and 10%, but to make wider margins. The Secretary of State has given good answers to this: area-specific tailor-made work can be made. I think that's a good development. I am also pleased that Mrs van Veldhoven's amendment on the roof tile construction, which I have signed, is supported, so that the path of graduality can be followed. If there are areas that are quite "focused," then this type of construction offers a good path. We were still concerned about the accumulation of licence-free activities. I'm going to make a motion on that. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas part of the space will now be used without authorisation;]] [[Whereas accumulation of deposition may lead to significant effects, whereas each of the individual loads is negligible;]] [[calls on the Government to make a reservation for non-licensed notifications in advance by area;]] [[calls on the Government to impose sanctions on the avoidance of reporting obligations or the avoidance of licensing obligations by "cut" projects/activities in small parts;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the same company does not expand several times on the basis of successive small (under 1 mol) extensions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jacobi and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u294	I'll be on Zeeland one more time anyway, because that's what's special about it. We have asked for attention to be paid to the problems surrounding the deposition of nitrogen from abroad, in this case Flanders. The Secretary of State has promised to keep us informed of the progress made on this matter. In Zeeland, however, we would very much like the solution to be laid down in legislation and not a bilateral agreement. They want a firm chord underneath it. I'll give it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u295	Mr. Chairman. I have to say to the VVD this: I find it really unimaginable. In preparing my first term, I had in mind that with all the destructive statements of the Council of State about the constructions that have been devised in recent years to get around the Nature Protection Act in order to give more space, especially livestock farms, you can easily cover the group chambers of the CDA and the VVD. I really think that's a good idea, too. It seems that the Council of State is not being read. In any case, they don't learn from it. That is so far, but when you say that you stand for the legal status of farmers, as a representative of the people, you have to take responsibility for being honest about the legal frameworks that apply to them. If you pretend you don't have to live up to the commitments we have made internationally, you may be a hero for a while, but then you exclaim that once again the situation is stuck in a legal swamp, even if it drowns further. And that's when you say you're standing up for the farmer's interest. I don't understand any of that. I really don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u296	I would ask Mrs Ouwehand once again to read the motion on the fundamental debate on the implementation of Natura 2000. We're, I think, opposite each other. If I recall Mrs Ouwehand's speech from the first term, I expect only one motion from her in the second term, namely a motion calling for the entire livestock sector to be removed from the Netherlands. He can't count on the support of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u297	That's a nice frame, compared to an impressive stack of legal analyses on how we failed with nature policy. I didn't write that pile myself. They are all lawyers who, as representatives of the people, remind us of our responsibility to operate within international legal frameworks. We've seen what comes of it if you don't. Everyone said in the first term that the situation is now so acute: what a tragedy, say, that we are stuck with this authorisation. Was the Party for Animals perhaps the government party in the last 20 years? No, I don't think so. The right side of the Chamber has caused this. It would be a good thing if this were to be admitted fairly to the entrepreneurs affected by it. The fact that the right side doesn't care about nature is clear to me. But at least be honest about the business interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u298	At the end of this day we get a bit of a déjà vu with the Party for Animals. I think Mrs Ouwehand's party is making a much greater contribution to the problems in the Netherlands surrounding livestock farming. She should be honest about this and simply say that she wants to chase out farmers, farmers' families, family farms and livestock farming in the Netherlands. Let them be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u299	I would be honest about that, but that is not the way Mr Geurts explains it here. It is precisely the agricultural policy run by the CDA that is one of 'get big or get out'. The small farmers stop and there are 25 to 50 a week. Congratulations on the results of 20 years of CDA agricultural policy! And if the CDA didn't rule, the VVD did execute the CDA agenda. Happy birthday! The small farmers are dead and only the big cowboys are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u300	I see that I do not receive a substantive answer from Mrs Ouwehand. That does not grace her and I also refer her to my contribution in Farm Today.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u301	The Animal Party wants to get rid of megalomaniac cattle factories. That's right. We stand for the interests of the small family business with the human dimension. I am afraid that the importance of the biggest boys is still paramount in Farming and the farmers' representatives. Of course that is reflected in the CDA, but that is not where we have to go with agriculture in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u302	I also share that view of the smaller family and family businesses, because that is what the PVV is fighting for. However, Mrs Ouwehand spoke about the right flank of the Chamber, which does not value nature. I feel compelled to say something about it, because that is not true. Only, if we don't do it the way the Party for Animals wants it, it means, according to her, that we wouldn't value nature. I think that's bullshit. We do a lot for nature in our own way, but we let the animals lead. We consider animal protection policy to be more important than nature conservation policy. That's a lot different. We explain it differently, but that does not mean that we do not value nature. That can't just be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u303	Then what does that prove, Mr Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u304	You must answer this place and not ask questions, Mrs Ouwehand! That's how it works around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u305	Then I shall rephrase it and say to Mr Graus that I have not yet seen any evidence that the PVV also values nature, except in a motion on a school garden, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u306	I'm not gonna go into this, because everybody knows it too. I give a very recent example, that of the bees. Bees belong to nature. They're the ambassadors of nature. Who set all this up? That's the PVV. I don't want to let it go any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u307	The PVV did not arrange it but supported it. I give that to Mr Graus. In tackling bee mortality, Mr Graus is on our side. I'm sorry, but there has been some evidence of bee mortality. The PVV has shown that we value not letting the bees die out. I am very grateful to the PVV for that. Thank you! Our concern about the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen has not been removed. The most important prerequisites for introducing such a programmed approach are not and are not fulfilled. We also know from the legal literature that there is no room for even more pollution if the natural conditions deteriorate. However, they still do. Especially with a 50% reduction in the nature budget, there is no prospect of real improvement. The proposal being discussed in this Chamber is still trying to do so by spending natural money on recovery measures to force development space. That seems to us to be at least shaky and legally debatable. Besides, it doesn't benefit nature. In addition to our fundamental concerns about this, there are a lot of questions that lead to great concern. Interrupt debates have already covered the fact that there is a difference in pace between the PAS and the management plan period and an investment that an entrepreneur will make on the basis of the development space allocated to him. This is about building a stable with a depreciation period of fifteen or twenty years. How does it work if after six years it turns out that we have to steer more sharply towards nature goals? It could go both ways. Either we adjust, which means that the legal position of the entrepreneur concerned is not certain, or we do not send and decide in the coming period that a more ambitious nature policy of a subsequent cabinet is simply not in place. In that case, adjusting to the international targets for the period in which an entrepreneur has invested is not a real possibility. It seems most like we're not going to adjust, and that's what I'm really worried about. I would once again ask the Secretary of State if she can clearly define how she will achieve the natural goals in the long term and integrate them into this system. On the basis of the long-term vision, the dot on the horizon, it can determine which development space is responsible and which is not. I would like to hear a well-founded response to this in the second term. I did not get an answer to the questions I asked about the Water Framework Directive. If I am well informed, the obligations arising from the Framework Directive will have to be reviewed in such a way that the permits issued will have to be revised if the environmental objectives are not met. Looks to me like you can't keep this out of the programmatic approach to nitrogen. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include the objectives of the Water Framework Directive in the Programmed Approach Nitrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u308	How many locks do we have to put on the door in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u309	The Party for Animals is in favour of a drastic reform of agriculture in the Netherlands. We want to go to agriculture that remains within the limits of what nature and water can handle and what environmental conditions in their generality require of us. In this way farmers will know where they stand and nature will not be burdened in such a way that we are constantly in trouble. This is legal, because it is about the legal approach, and we are not talking about ecological conditions yet. We are very far away from that, and we have to get back to it. If you lose nature, our agriculture has nearly 4 billion damage a year. Think about the bees.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u310	It's starting to get a little shaky. I can't get an answer to my question. I'm asking how many locks should be on the door. The Water Framework Directive is simply implemented in the Netherlands. We see how clean the water becomes in the Netherlands. In the IJsselmeer we even get problems, because it is so clean. Now Mrs Ouwehand wants more locks on the door. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u311	If Mr Geurts does not think it is radical enough that the Animal Party wants a drastic reform of agriculture, I would like to hear what more radical proposals he has. This seems to me to be a very clear position. We're gonna have to do a lot for it, because all the megas will have to close. At least no new ones can be built. About the critical deposition value, the Secretary of State did a little squeamish. Even if we stopped all activities in the Netherlands, we would not achieve this value. However, we are net exporter of nitrogen. If we do not get close to the critical deposition value, which indicates what a nature reserve can handle, we will never achieve the favourable conservation status. However, we have promised them, although they do not have a strict deadline. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? It is therefore a useful tool to set a course for the agreed objectives. There were several questions about the reporting obligation. I welcome Mrs Jacobi's motion on that point. We are concerned about the situation that could arise if entrepreneurs could claim development space, if they remain below the limit. The Secretary of State does not share these concerns, has just proved. It would only be the bottom of the market, it would not be the real problem, and we could create new space with recovery measures. How many entrepreneurs are we talking about? Does the Secretary of State have a picture of that? What should we take into account? In view of the cumulative effects that can occur, how do you prevent too much development space being given away by a boom in applications for authorisation-free deposition? I would like to hear a response to that. There may also be a reaction to Mrs Jacobi's motion. I look forward to a response to some of the amendments. This includes the conservation goals you must have achieved before you give away development space or before you give permission for plans and projects. I would like to hear in the second term that the Secretary of State embraces this amendment, although I suspect it will be different. I'll conclude with my final motion. In order to cheer things up, I wrote her a hand. That looks more cozy than a typed motion. For example, we are perhaps doing justice to the festive atmosphere today, despite the fact that we differ 180 degrees in content. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that part of the nature budget is devoted to rehabilitation measures to create development space for, among other things, intensive livestock farming;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear which part of the natural budget is beneficial to the actual strengthening of nature and which part is used to repair damage caused by excessive nitrogen taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33669-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u312	Thank you very much. I shall give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber as the last speaker on the House's second term. I indicated earlier that she could not attend the debate because she had other obligations. They are now over and the debate is not yet over, so I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u313	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to the Secretary of State for her birthday. Good luck and health in the new year of life. My gift is the same as that of the SGP Group: I have no motions. If you get an identical gift on your birthday, you might normally think you want to trade it, but in this case, the Secretary of State is very happy with the double gift she gets. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions in the first term. I should like to apologize for having moved on to this debate later. That had to do with obligations elsewhere. I do, however, welcome the reaction of the Secretary of State to my amendments in the first term. I've been getting those reactions. I started and ended my contribution in the first term with the example of a dairy farmer from Overijsel who is in the hair because he had to shrink as a result of the designation of a Natura 2000 area, while the nearby highway is being widened and the municipality previously agreed to expand. I then asked the Secretary of State if the PAS was going to help him. I have to say that this question is not easy to answer. Unfortunately, after this debate, this dairy farmer does not yet have the desired clarity, at least not completely. My group believes it is very important that the PAS should finally come into force, that there should be an end to the lumber-rope solutions that provinces and municipalities have had to adopt, that the PAS should be able to start licensing again and, above all, that a good balance should be struck between green and growth, as the Secretary of State said so well. We want to be able to make nature more robust and offer entrepreneurs a realistic perspective on the available development space. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that the Chamber is also involved in the establishment of the regulation and the programme. That's gonna be the proof of the pudding. I understand that this important legislative amendment precedes this, but it has become clear in this debate that there are still many open ends that are only brought together in the programme. For my group, it is important to clarify the programme as soon as possible, in particular the way in which the deposition space is distributed among the different segments and the amount of development space left. I have amended my amendment on the reservation of development space for priority projects. In the first term, the Secretary of State was unable to comment on this. I hope this will work out later. We still have a specific question about the development area for farmers. In AERIUS 1.6 52% of deposition space would be devoted to priority projects. When will the Secretary of State know how high this percentage will be in AERIUS 1.7? As a follow-up, how does the programme ensure that the 5.6 kilotons of development space agreed in the covenant actually returns to the agricultural sector? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to look at measures taken by an farmer in the distribution of development space to keep his deposition as low as possible and to weigh it as well? I have a specific question about the Inner Field. The trial was stalled there. Can the Secretary of State state state what the situation is and what possibilities it sees to facilitate the process? The Empire considers the plan to be too experimental, but as far as the Christian Union is concerned, we are looking at innovations and need to embrace them, especially if these innovations can bridge the gap between farmers and nature lovers. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how farmers in border areas are dealt with. They argue that in Germany nitrogen emissions are much higher than in the Netherlands. They suffer the negative consequences of this. Last Monday night, I was at a meeting of young farmers. One of them said that he is at the border with Germany and that a few kilometers away, just across the border, within the same nature reserve and within the same European network of nature reserves, is an farmer who has much wider possibilities than he does. He asked me if I could explain. I couldn't explain it and promised him I'd put that question to the Secretary of State. That's what I'm doing here. I hope she can explain. It is good to have a look through the next program period. Ultimately, the PAS is about clarity for entrepreneurs for the short term, but certainly also for the long term. Can we really give the entrepreneurs sufficient clarity? That is the big question for me. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she sees the further trial with the Chamber. Can she outline the timeline for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u314	This brings to an end the second term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a suspension of 15 minutes so that she can prepare herself for her response to the 22 motions tabled and the outstanding questions. I would remind her that there are also four amendments which require an opinion, namely the amendments to the documents. Forty-four, 45 and 46, and the amendment to item No. 30 by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u315	We have now arrived at the second term on the part of the government. I'd like to give the floor to the birthday Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u316	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes on such a day you feel like "it's not my birthday yet," but let's see how far we get. I think it is really important, also because some of the Members specifically asked for it, to make an agreement on how we are going to proceed now. I shall now turn to the motion that has been tabled on this subject. How can I best involve the Chamber in what Mrs Lodder called the loose ends? I have already made a proposal in the first term and I would like to repeat it. I will also explain in Mr Geurt's words what that means in material terms. That proposal is that, for the next time, we will be presenting the PAS programme as a whole to the Chamber. This means, in material terms, that if the Chamber agrees to the legislative proposal, which I sincerely hope will come into force only when the PAS programme is in place, because that is what it is aimed at. This means that the Court lays down the legal basis, but that in fact it creates a "go/no go" moment to decide on the basis of the programme, as it stands, including the available development space and the allocation to the different sectors, whether that balance exists. I hope that in this way I will be able to give the Chamber the green light for the legal basis now, knowing that, when it comes to implementing the law, the Chamber will be able to take a decision at a later date on the basis of the proposal as negotiated, with all the information that is still missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u317	Mr. Chairman. I just need to get used to the new face. The Secretary of State says that the bill can only come into force after the veil. Technically, I do not think that is right, because it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u318	You can, but you shouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u319	The Secretary of State therefore undertakes not to allow it to enter into force until that veil arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u320	That's right. In fact, a bill must come into force by Royal Decree. I think it is necessary for the PAS programme to be there, because that is what the legislative proposal is aimed at. So I see a logical link between hanging out the PAS programme here and then deciding whether the law will actually enter into force. In the end, that seems to me to be the most chic, even in the direction of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u321	Otherwise, we would have to follow the route of the amendment: immediately a veil and only when that veil is there, will we continue. A motion has been tabled and he gets the "judge chamber" advice. I shall announce this, because that is the only way we can do that. That motion will then simply be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u322	Yeah, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u323	I hear the Secretary of State say that we are actually saying yes to the legal basis, but that the implementation, including development space and allocation, is part of the veil. That means that all the agreements that are still being made are part of that veil and are thus fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u324	Yes, because the entire PAS program is being hung up and there are all those appointments in there. I can't say it any clearer. I will now try to answer the rather impressive pile of questions. I shall then give an opinion on the remaining amendments and the motions. Mrs Lodders and Mr Dijkgraaf have asked whether this allocation of development space is a compensatory or a mitigating measure. The answer is that it's actually neither. The development area means no more and no less than that there will be no negative impact on any Natura 2000 site in the light of all the guaranteed public measures. So that is different from mitigation, because mitigation means that measures are linked to an individual project to prevent effects. This is an obligation attached to the individual entrepreneur's permit. That's out of the question. Measures at national level are also part of the PAS. There is no question of compensation either, because the granting of permits does not affect nature values. So there's nothing to compensate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u325	Because all this has to do with legal sustainability: has this been checked at the Council of State? I didn't get along with their advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u326	Yeah, I'm getting that confirmed. Then Mr Dijkgraaf gave the example of a goose. Mrs Van Veldhoven then added another example. I think it's good to indicate which examples of 0.3 moles I'm getting. Emissions of 0.3 moles are 100 cows 10 kilometres from an area, or 50,000 chickens per hectare per year at 13 to 14 kilometres. I would also like to say a few words about this later on, which I would naturally like to share with Mr Dijkgraaf on how to keep a number of things as simple as possible. The reasoning for his argument to keep it simple, I share. It is not just that he asked me for a re-evaluation of the amendments he has tabled, that I have had a different reasoning in the last hour than my reasoning on the basis of what the Council of State has advised me. That is not unwillingness, but the sincere conviction that we should not be put at risk with it. I would like to make a commitment to Mr Dijkgraaf. He says that he has not tabled any motions for resolutions, and I am very pleased with that, but that he is happy to make it clear, even at the moment when we are going to report to the Chamber on how a number of things are being taken up, how we want to keep things simple around these limits. In the small debate between Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Van Veldhoven, the question was actually asked about the possibility of having a very light procedure whereby, so to speak, you put a tick on a website if a project remains under the 1 mole, with which the notification was made. That's actually the point. So it seems to me appropriate to agree that I am going to tell the Chamber how we can do this as easily as possible, at least to ease the burden as much as possible for the entrepreneurs involved. I share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u327	According to my information, the Secretary of State's calculation is correct. I'm glad for that too, because then we know what 0.3 moles means and what the impact is of a company with 100 cows at a distance of 10 kilometers, which is the same as one goose poop. Both calculations are correct, because the impact decreases very quickly with the distance to that nature reserve. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment. In the end, it's about content. It matters to me that it's easy. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to take the following with him. Website: beautiful. Make a tick: excellent. That is the legal side of the matter, but the legal side of the matter is also: is it legally watertight? Or could one organisation or a neighbouring company object to enlargement because there would be a problem? That way you can still end up in a legal swamp. That's actually what we're afraid of. I do not need an answer from the Secretary of State, but I would like to see the whole process involved in the elaboration, otherwise it will be simple for the website, but it will still be complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u328	Yeah, but that's what we're doing. We want to make it as watertight as possible. That is precisely why I cannot give a positive assessment of the amendments tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf on this point. This is because it puts us at too much risk. However, I will take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u329	Thank you for that. It hasn't worked in an hour, so I suggest we continue for a few more hours; then the switch will come!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u330	The President also has an opinion on this. I suggest that the Secretary of State should continue with the reply, because there will be another debate after this. What Mr Dijkgraaf says is interesting, but I would like to follow another line.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u331	Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked a number of questions. Is the recovery of the measures annual or is it cumulatively established? It's cumulative. After all, a recovery measure works for a longer time, but an extension on the basis of a permit is sudden. You can't honor them in small steps. Mrs Van Veldhoven has also asked whether the PAS will not be frozen over time if the deposition of the licences granted is added up. The answer is no, because the deposition continues to fall autonomously as a result of existing policies to make the sectors of transport, agriculture and industry cleaner. This autonomous deposition decline alone is greater than the space needed for new developments. Mrs Van Veldhoven then asked: but what if after that period the deposition development is disappointing and the permits continue to apply? The essence is: a once issued permit state. We provide that permit on the basis of the best available insights and prospects. If it turns out unexpectedly to be disappointing in the monitoring process, of course, there is no effect on existing permits, but there is a need to look at a package of measures for a further period. In doing so, you have, as it were, limited the next period in terms of the possibilities that exist. That's how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u332	So in fact, you may have to take recovery measures in a subsequent period, which will not create additional space for that period, but actually solve another problem from the previous period...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u333	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u334	... so that the space in that coming period depends on the amount of money you can put into recovery measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u335	Yes. In response to a question from Mrs Lodder, I will also indicate what the buttons are. I also think it is important to say something about this. What buttons are there to turn on to get more development space? First of all, a deposition reduction can be increased by stepping up, for example, a policy on sources: an even cleaner industry, even cleaner traffic and even cleaner agriculture. Those are all possibilities you can create. Furthermore, you can reduce the development need by phasing, so by drawing things in time as it were. You can also increase the development space by investing extra in nature, as already recalled. One of the buttons you can turn on is the time. Mrs Lodder asked why we are not actually working on this. The six-year period is already in the current nature protection legislation and is therefore fixed. This bill doesn't really change that period. If you were to move now to nine years, for example, this would require not only a legislative change but also a whole new area analysis for all areas. After all, the current field analyses all cover six years. That means a big delay before the PAS can start working. It is also complicated, because in material terms it is only a question of whether it will give you more development space in the end. After all, the permit paths never all run in parallel. It's not like you have a block and you get more space if you make that block longer. Each of these different things has its own value and that value doesn't change if you extend the period. We can make the view longer. This can provide more certainty for entrepreneurs. In her amendment, Mrs Van Veldhoven offers this solution and that is why I left the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. However, it should be borne in mind that land use plans never coincide with the PAS in practice. That's what I just said. In one municipality the zoning plan will therefore be revised at a different date than in the other municipality. In AERIUS comes a module to facilitate the test of zoning plans. The package of measures must also be integrated into the Nature Pact and that is what we are working on. So there are some buttons, I've just mentioned them, but they're not all that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u336	The Secretary of State starts with the argument that the six-year period is already enshrined in the law. I think we're adjusting the law right now. So that's not the argument for per se holding onto those six years. The Secretary of State says that this has a number of effects, for example in the field analyses. You should do it again. Has the Secretary of State considered linking this to a longer period of time in order to at least offer the provinces more comfort?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u337	No, because the field analyses were made on the basis of this well-known period in the law. I have just tried to make it clear that it is also true that a longer period does not produce material profit in the sense that you would gain more development space. I think it's hard to explain that properly. I can see in Mrs Lodder's question the suggestion that it would give you more development space, but I do not think that is the effect. Apart from that, all these field analyses have now been assessed over this period. If we all have to do this again, we will be busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u338	My question is not just about more development space, although that is a very important point, but I do not need to repeat it here. My question is also about clarity. Mrs Van Veldhoven's amendment gives some insight, but it remains a look-through. The zoning plans are generally valid for a maximum of 10 years, but this narrows the period to six years, the PAS period. In any case, we are not giving enough clarity and certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u339	You can't compare it that way. A zoning plan is sometimes made halfway through a PAS period. So that goes on in the next PAS period. Whether the PAS period lasts six or five years, the system of the zoning plans is that they always run from one PAS period to another. That is why the amendment is interesting. This gives the system the insight for a much longer period. But at the end of the day you can't control everything completely on this point either. There is a lot of creatability in this world, but that creatability also has its limits. Mrs Jacobi and Mr Dijkgraaf have specifically asked whether there is sufficient development space on Schiermonnikoog. On the basis of AERIUS 1.6, 51 mol/ha per year is available. The claim on development space is 48 mol/ha per year. This is therefore appropriate at field level. Mr Geurts asked about the transitional rights around the PAS. What are the authorisation procedures? All pending applications will be handled on the basis of the old regime. For new licence applications according to the PAS, the time of adoption shall apply. So that's a pretty clean transition. Suppose a zoning plan lasts more than six years. Is there any chance it's gonna die? Is the development area guaranteed? The zoning plan isn't gonna die. At the time of establishing a zoning plan, it is necessary to check that there is sufficient space. We're gonna have to do that now. We are not going to do that until the PAS enters into force. It is also in the current system of permits. Mr Geurts asked about the security of the development area after six years. For this, Mrs Van Veldhoven's so-called roof tile construction amendment offers an improvement. That gives us a glimpse of a somewhat longer period of time. What ministerial arrangements are part of the veil? The arrangements provided for in the legislative proposal include the setting of limit values, the list of priority projects and the registration in AERIUS. As I said, the entire program is being hung in front of the Chamber. We hope to reach an agreement with the Chamber on this. Mrs Lodders asked whether there should be no clarity for the provinces, the entrepreneurs, the port of Rotterdam and the farmers. With that veil it will become clear who gets what development space. This is also the clarity that entrepreneurs consider to be very important. How is the allocation of the development area regulated? Mrs Lodders wants to move on, but perhaps there is no development space. She thinks it should all be well organized. What's the national stake? We expect a good balance to be struck in the provision of development space. On the basis of AERIUS 1.7, we can see where there may still be bottlenecks. That is what we will be discussing, if necessary with provinces. We shall also put it in the Chamber. The moment the Chamber gets the veil, 1.7 is in it. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about the situation in Germany. Aren't we stricter? The PBL conducted research on this subject under the direction of Prof. Bakkes in 2011/12. The research includes a legal equation. Prof. Bakkes asked whether German practice is in line with the Habitats Directive. We are dealing with the way in which the Dutch court finally determines how we comply with the directives. That's the legal space you have at the end of the day. We should not repeat the whole debate now, but I think this is for discussion. Mrs Ouwehand also asked about the difference in pace between PAS management plans and the entrepreneurial rhythm. I have already said a few things about this. The goals in the long term are not under discussion and in every period of the PAS we take a next step in the right direction to achieve the goals. That's my ambition, too. However, the size of the next step is ultimately on the then sitting cabinet and parliament. You will see that it will vary by area and habitat when it is possible to achieve a favourable conservation status. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the timetable. In fact, in the first period, I said that the deadline will in principle be mid-September. Then there is also a lot of clarity for the areas and the entrepreneurs. Mrs Ouwehand asked if I could make clear which part of the nature budget is for recovery because of nitrogen depositions and which part for actual improvement. The resources are part of the Nature Pact, on which the House of Representatives has been informed on several occasions. I have to say that I find it difficult to describe this quite precisely. Of course, it is also decentralised. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question about bottlenecks, inter alia, in connection with the Binnenveld. What exactly is the situation for farmers in border areas? Can we not, above all, give the innovation a place? I think the innovative approach in the Binnenveld is really very promising. We have often had exciting conversations on this subject. You can see that the provinces of Utrecht, Gelderland and the waterscape of Vallei and Veluwe are very close together, also with EZ. We are trying very well to find a solution that is acceptable to all, including within the framework of the management plan. What exactly is the situation with priority projects and AERIUS 1.7 and the guarantee of 5.6 kilotons? Mr Geurts' motion asks for a ruling from the Chamber. As a result of this motion, I will come back to this, but we are going to do so. That is a pre-shadowing qualification of the motion, which I naturally regard as a support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u340	I'll be back on the Inner Field. The Secretary of State and I have had discussions on this before, and I have also asked written questions about this. Is it true that the problem-solving plan is now completely out of the question and that we therefore have to look all over again for a new plan to achieve the nature goals in the Binnenveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u341	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u342	That's good to hear. This may provide a perspective for a quick solution. Can the Secretary of State make an assessment of when that solution will be available?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u343	I'm afraid to gamble that now. I can't see that. It is being worked on with a great deal of effort. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the amendments and the motions for resolutions. There's a few more. I believe that I am in favour of this amendment. 42 had already foreseen a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u344	Only the amendments to documents Nos. 44 to 46 not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u345	Exactly. The amendment in part No. 44 belongs to Mrs. Ouwehand. It intends to introduce the identified critical deposition values. I do not recommend this amendment. In the debate we indicated why. The amendment in part No. 45 is about conservation targets. It is intended that development space can only be reallocated once these objectives have been achieved. I should also like to dissuade this amendment, because the allocation of development space and the work on nature conservation and restoration are exactly the same with the PAS. That's the essence of the bill. The last amendment, in part No. Forty-six is similar to the amendment on item No. 45. For this reason, I would also like to advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u346	The Secretary of State has mixed up the various amendments relating to numbering. She said at the beginning of the debate that she had an overview of her views on all the amendments. In case I missed one, I'd appreciate it if we could still get that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u347	I have to say that, as far as I know, all the amendments have now been judged by the Secretary of State and not by each other. It's all kept up here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u348	It is also just to look into the report, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u349	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u350	Yes, if the report is there at the time we are going to vote. I mentioned it because the Secretary of State herself said at the beginning of the debate that she had that overview and that she could give it. It has indeed gone neatly in the order of the answers, but in terms of numbering it was often firm leaves in the large set. However, if the Registry has noted it, it may be able to help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u351	Yes. Because of the time, I suggest that the Secretary of State continues to discuss the motions. The summary of the opinions on the amendments can be obtained from the Registry or read in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u352	That also applies to our amendment, old in part No. 34, new in part No 43?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u353	Yes. I had already made a judgment on this, namely that I leave it to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u354	The Secretary of State continues her argument with her opinion on many motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u355	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Mr Graus, I cannot really meet you today. That's a huge profit warning. In your first motion, in part No. 49, the government is asked to take back control of our "ur-Hollandish" landscapes in national hands. Even if it was written with "sch," taking back into national hands would change the whole decentralisation. This decentralisation has twice been the starting point in government agreements of very different plumes, even in a cabinet that could even count on your support, Mr Graus. Therefore, I cannot give any other judgment now but to advise against it. This isn't supposed to be entrapment, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u356	I share that with the Secretary of State, because I am also in favour of it being in the province. But I meant, of course, that it should not be Brussels, but here, in our hands. I am therefore prepared to take out the word 'national'.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u357	Even then, we are in a European context. I will say a few words about the directives and the discussions on them, but we are now bound by them. So in that light, I must continue to discourage this motion, even if Mr Graus would change it. In his motion in part No. 50 asks Mr Graus to refrain from further implementing Natura 2000 legislation. That is not possible, because the Netherlands would inevitably call for a letter of formal notice. I must therefore advise against this motion. The same applies to the Graus motion on item No. 51, in which the Government is requested to refrain from the 300 metre fertilising free zone. I have just explained that setting up such a zone is undoubtedly an inevitable measure that must be taken to achieve certain values of nature that we want to preserve. I cannot, therefore, freely go along with Mr Graus to propose other measures. I don't feel free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u358	That's obvious. I was expecting this, too. I would like to say to the Acts that anything can and must be done. That must also be the case in the Acts. The Secretary of State says she can't do it. No, she doesn't. Anything's possible. Anything's possible. It's just that the government doesn't want it and the Secretary of State doesn't want it. The government and the Secretary of State don't have to do anything, but they do. That must be the case in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u359	It's been noted. Anything you say, anything you say, will be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u360	I accept, moreover, that Mr Graus says so. After all, it is. I do not want to accept the consequences that 'anything can and should be' brings. Those consequences are great. I therefore believe that it is not wise to accept it. So there is a point for Mr Graus. I couldn't follow the law either. It's possible. It's just not the point. I also think that we should not radiate that from our position. In his motion in part No. 52 Mr Graus called on the government to no longer consider the stool of farm animals as a waste, but as a very valuable building, energy and raw material. I must also advise against this motion. It is true that there are valuable organic substances in it, but it also causes problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u361	At the time of Minister Verburg, I tabled a motion asking for manure to be used as a valuable building, energy and raw material. That motion was supported by almost everyone at the time. There has never been anything done with it, but if that motion had already been carried out as a majority of the Chamber wanted, it could not have been waste anyway and could not be regarded as waste. We must get rid of this surplus of manure, of that negative image. That's the stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u362	It's not like nothing happened. We shall now proceed to the debate on manure, but we really should not do that. There is also a Dutch commitment to, for example, derogation for the mineral concentrate. So let us not pretend that we cannot find each other here either on the issues that are valuable, even within the manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u363	I will take that up again in the manure consultation that will take place shortly with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u364	Mr Graus' motion for a resolution (Doc. 53 is about the same as his motion in part No. 51. I must therefore discourage this motion for the same reason. Then we go to the motion in part No. 54 by Mrs Van Veldhoven...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u365	Mr Graus has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u366	Mr. Chairman. This is my last motion, so you'll be done with me tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u367	I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u368	I said you're done with me tonight. It's a very sympathetic motion. I am asking for an investigation into alternatives. That is always very sympathetic; it is just a friendly question. I'm sure he'll get a majority. Although, with the cordon sanitary, it's just a matter of waiting. I have to look at Mrs. Jacobi nicely. I'm asking for alternatives to the fertilising-free zone. I have discussed this issue with the Secretary of State in a previous interruption. What is happening in the Bunder and Elsloerbos is almost impossible to bear financially and economically for the agricultural entrepreneurs affected by these new measures. There are already national measures in place. Studies have already been carried out by the water supply company there and have shown that the existing measures have already reduced nitrates and phosphates in groundwater. Now all I'm asking is whether the Secretary of State can intervene in an investigation into alternatives to a fertilising-free zone. We can do that more broadly too. It can apply to the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u369	I was afraid of that, but we do not have the money for it, and I am not the first one to take the lead in this. Of course, that's the county. I think Mr Graus knows the area well. He will undoubtedly also have members of his party who are active there. I therefore ask him to put this point down at the level where it should be first, namely with the States.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u370	I take that to heart. I'm having an asparagus dinner in a minute. There I see all the Limburg bobos, so I will certainly address them. Back to my story. The farmers say they don't have the money and the Secretary of State says so, but the government is responsible for the policy and the farmers can't help it. If those guys say they don't have any money for it, it's easier to understand it than if the government says she doesn't have any money for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u371	I really appreciate Mr Graus' perseverance. That's how I know him. But I can't help him right now. In her motion in part No. 54 Ms Van Veldhoven asked the government to evaluate the PAS after the first six-year period and also to look at the direct and indirect costs. I see the motion as a policy support. We will always have to weigh the costs and benefits for the establishment of a new PAS. In her motion, Mrs Van Veldhoven asks for document No. 55 the government to assess the extent to which an incentive can be given to companies that achieve far-reaching emission reductions. I'm experiencing this motion in support of policy. I would like to think about it again; I have promised it. In that context, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u372	Mrs Ouwehand, you wish to interrupt, but it is not a motion from you. Or is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u373	No, it's not about my motion, but before I can support this motion, I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about it. Less emissions are always fun in themselves, but may be at odds with animal welfare. If that means that animals are being locked up in the stable and an extra spiffy air washer is needed, I would not support the motion. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u374	No, because certain forms of stable mechanisms do indeed contribute to reducing emissions. There could be tension on this file. I may not accept that tension, and Mrs. Ouwehand may not accept it. At least I can't rule it out. I regard the motion on the state aid test as superfluous, because the test has taken place and there is no state aid. There is nothing more to be done than with other environmental permits. The permit is granted if there is sufficient environmental use space in this case development space. Perhaps Mrs. Van Veldhoven could withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u375	I would not like to table an unnecessary motion, but of course it is the question of how this relates to the money invested in recovery measures that create the economic development area. That is something other than an environmental permit, which looks at the space that exists. That's where the shoe is wringing for me. I have had to deal with state aid once, and that is taken very widely. I wouldn't want us to have any uncertainty on this point. I would like to continue the motion if the Secretary of State undertakes to look at it again and let us know the outcome in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u376	I'll check that again. If Mrs Van Veldhoven continues the motion, I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u377	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u378	Again, I do not think there is any system here other than other permits. Let's not look for trouble, but let's not rule them out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u379	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (33669, No. 56). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u380	Then I come to the Smaling motion in part No. 57 on the system, with which we have to demonstrate that the system works by placing instruments in each nitrogen-sensitive habitat type and monitoring them all very precisely. I advise against this motion. We have 60 measuring points, we have sources, we have RIVM and the agricultural count. I note that this is enough. In the motion in part No. 58 Mr Smaling asked the government to ensure that the farmer or switch to low-emission forms of agriculture or to be rehoused in or outside the immediate vicinity in such a way that he or she did not make a financial contribution. I must also advise against this motion, because this is, at first instance, a matter for the provinces. Mr Smaling and Mrs Jacobi, in their motion on item No. 59 to raise the issue of agricultural collectives and nature organisations and how they can contribute to low-emission buffer zones. They call for the transition to be facilitated through targeted use of CAP greening funds and POP3 funds. I would also advise against this motion. She's sympathetic, but this is matters for the provinces. Buffer zones are only set where they are needed. The POP can indeed help in the greening process. That is what we agree on, but with the wording in this motion I cannot get out of my way. In their motion in part No. 60 calls on Mr Smaling and Mrs Jacobi to ensure that conservation targets for specific Natura 2000 sites such as Deurnsche Peel, Mariapeel and Groote Peel are achieved. The goal of the PAS is of course also to achieve nature goals. It seems to me appropriate to inform the House of this, and for this reason I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the House. Mr Smaling then tabled a motion in respect of item No. 61 in which he asks for educational cycling routes and green space projects to be set up in a number of areas and to encourage schools from the Randstad to include work weeks in these areas in their curriculum. I advise against this motion. The Natura 2000 Tasting Garden is already running and offers scope for innovation. The recently published nature vision includes opportunities to set up volunteer projects and educational projects within the framework of Groen en Doen. However, this degree of detail should not be dealt with in this way in a motion. In the motion in part No. 62 of Mr Smaling and Mr Jacobi asked the government not to make any substantive changes to the PAS without being presented to the Chamber in a veil. This is about the first time we have implemented this programme. I started my reply by saying that I fully agree with it and that I will act accordingly. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Geurts' 63 concerns the agreement with the agricultural sector and the statement that 5.6 kilotons of the development area will be made available to agricultural holdings. Mr Geurts knows my commitment. I'm experiencing the motion in support of policy. I'd like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u381	So that means that this is laid down in the pending procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u382	Yeah, that's right. If it's added together, it all has to be right, otherwise we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u383	Would it not be better to hold the motion until we have discussed the matter with each other? Then we can judge whether it's true in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u384	I would say not, because of course I have already agreed to this in the administrative consultation. It's already signed and all. So front or no front: this is my bet. My commitment has been known for a long time and I have already made agreements with the sector. I'm gonna stick to that. In the motion in part No. 64 is requested to extend the possibility of objection and appeal against the management plan with regard to the consideration of socio-economic factors. I advise against this motion. Objections and appeals may be brought only against individual decisions and decisions which have a legal effect. This follows from the General Administrative Law Act. The Court may, however, consider the socio-economic interests on the basis of an individual decision to be marginal. That's how the system works. Mr Geurts has asked the government to establish that the province in which a company is physically established is the competent authority. My proposal is to maintain the current regime. There is an amendment to the new law of nature. If accepted, there is a period during which these changes in administrative practice can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u385	I thought it was a very nice answer, but I have to think about it. I'll keep the motion in the air for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u386	I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u387	I would suggest to Mr Geurts that the Secretary of State may explain her position again, so that he can decide what to do with his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u388	I'm not getting much further now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u389	What is the Secretary of State's opinion on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u390	Hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u391	Mr Geurts has until Tuesday to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u392	But what is the State Secretary's opinion if the motion is not stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u393	Then I'll advise against the motion. I started with the existing regime and then gave a look at the future. The question is, what exactly does that mean? I think that is also the question for Mr Geurts, but we still have until Tuesday. I come to the Lodders motion in part No. 66, on the initiation of a fundamental debate. A fitness check of Natura 2000 will take place next year. That is the reason for the discussion. In today's Chambers, I have sought the optimum within the legal possibilities. I'll leave this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 67 is about existing use.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u394	If the fitness check, a beautiful name, aims at the same thing, I think this is the case, can the Secretary of State say a little more about how this discussion will be conducted or can she tell us when she can inform us about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u395	That's what I did in the Nature Vision, which came out last Friday. I have given an insight into the way in which we intend to deal with this in the future. For example, we want to organise an international conference on this subject in the Netherlands. So I have already devoted quite a bit of lyrics to that. I can imagine that we will continue this debate there. The motion in part No. 67 deals, among other things, with existing use and the situation in Gelderland. I must advise against this motion because the existing use referred to by Mrs Lodder is already legally exempt from the licence requirement. This is stated in Article 19d (3) of the Nature Conservation Act. There is no need for inclusion in the management plan. This is another technical answer, but it is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u396	It's very important. To what extent is the Secretary of State prepared to include this part in the administrative consultation with these provinces, which will take place a number of times in the coming months, and to call on those provinces to do so because this will help to create a different basis for some of the difficult measures that we are facing? There are entrepreneurs who run into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u397	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u398	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u399	At the request of Mrs Lodders, I propose her motion (33669), No. 67). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u400	The motion in part No. 68, of members Jacobi and Van Veldhoven, deals with reservations for non-licensed notifications. It calls for action to be taken in this area. In AERIUS, part of the space is reserved for licence-free activities. Provincial policy rules will prevent freeriding behaviour in licence applications. I propose to Mrs Jacobi that this motion, which was also signed by Mrs Van Veldhoven, be retained until she sees how we do this in the PAS programme. I cannot entirely see whether we should do it as she suggests in detail, but I understand the problem. I have already promised her that we would be committed to a provision in this respect. Give me some space to find my way in with the provinces. The motion sets out in great detail exactly how it should be done, and that would be a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u401	We made this menu for the Secretary of State to use in the front. We'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u402	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, er...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u403	One small technical question: if we hold the motion, we should not have the reaction that it should have been included in the legislative proposal. I assume that this can still be repaired if the Secretary of State comes to that conclusion during the discussion that we will have in connection with the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u404	We are talking about a motion, not an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u405	That seems perfectly clear to me. I also think it is quite clear that the author can ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u406	Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's motion, the motion in part No. 69, in which it calls for the objectives of the Water Framework Directive to be included in the PAS. The PAS and the Water Framework Directive take account of each other, but the PAS is not the instrument for achieving all the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. The Water Framework Directive concerns more than just nitrogen. For that reason, I have to make the motion in part no. 69 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u407	The Secretary of State is right, but the motion of course refers to the objectives that are relevant to the problem of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u408	It doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u409	That's the way the motion is meant to be, and in that sense, I can modify her.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u410	Then I say to Mrs Ouwehand that the PAS takes this into account insofar as the objectives are relevant. From that point of view, the motion seems superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u411	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u412	I'll keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u413	I'm gonna change the motion to make sure. I'll check and see if I can put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u414	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 70, also tabled by Mrs Ouwehand, calling on the government to make clear which part of the natural budget is beneficial to the actual strengthening of nature and which part is used to repair damage caused by excessive nitrogen taxation. I have just said something about this. I find that difficult, because we have decentralised the budget. One part is intended for management and another part is intended for the purchase of new nature reserves. So it's very difficult to cut that at macro level with a nail cutter. In the management plans, Mr Geurts is quite right to invest extra money from the provinces with a lot of his own money. So I do not feel free to say that we are going to figure this out. That'll take a lot of time from my people. They need that time very much for a number of other things. That is why I propose that the motion should not be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u415	I'm considering holding the motion for a moment. Can the Secretary of State say whether she is prepared to ask the provinces if they can generally report on how they distribute these budgets? The provinces will sort of keep track of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u416	I'd like to ask the provinces. Apart from that, we have agreed with the provinces that, within the framework of the Natural Pact, we make clear how the use of resources contributes to achieving the goals. I will therefore ask the provinces, but I do not know whether this will lead to a positive and satisfactory outcome. I can't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u417	There's just been discrimination here. I have to ask the county myself, while Mrs. Ouwehand, the spoiled monkey, is served. For her, the government is going to ask the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u418	I would ask Mr Graus to be kind to his colleagues. I note that Mr Graus has a judgment, but does not put a question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u419	I feel very strongly addressed, because I am certainly not discriminated against. I have indeed referred Mr Graus to the Member States because the debate on the point he raised really has to take place there. This is partly about resources previously made available by the Empire. So it has nothing to do with discrimination, but with total responsibility. However, I can imagine the emotion. Before that, I would like to offer my sincere apologies. By the way, I don't want to favor anyone, because making stepchildren is the last thing you have to do with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u420	Clear. Mrs Van Veldhoven, this debate has almost come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u421	That's right, but I hope the Secretary of State can answer another question. In the first period, she promised me that she would answer that question in the second period. Maybe I missed the answer. My question was about the legal status of the interrimmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u422	I have answered that question very extensively in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u423	No, you said you'd come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u424	Yes, but I came back to that later. I'm sorry, but it was also a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u425	I may have missed that, but I shall read it in the report. It was indeed a lot of questions and a long debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u426	Mrs Van Veldhoven is going to read the Acts. Mr Van Gerven may wish to make another statement in response to the amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u427	That amendment in part No. We want to withdraw 30 from Mr Smaling, given the commitments made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u428	Thank you, that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u429	The Smaling amendment (Doc. 30) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u430	I thank the Secretary of State for coming and wish her another festive evening. The legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions will be voted on next Tuesday.
