ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u1	Mr. Chairman. This is my first VAO since I finished the survey, so thank you for the twenty minutes speaking time. Yeah, that was a mistake on the list. Mr. Chairman. We had an AO a while ago and I applied for this VAO for a specific purpose, namely the foreign registration numbers. I myself have drawn attention to this in the past and tabled motions for resolutions on it. Mr Omtzigt and a number of others did the same, but I was one of the real car drivers to those cars. Here's what's important. There are a lot of foreign cars in the Netherlands, but there are no taxes on them. Apparently, the Secretary of State has not been able to solve that problem either, because I did not really like his letter of 4 November on the subject. That's why I'm filing the next motion. That motion is a little longer than you're used to, Mr President, but that's necessary, because I need to explain some things. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has concluded bilateral tax treaties with almost all European States and that in these conventions the principle is that a person who lives and/or works in the Netherlands for more than 183 days per calendar year is deemed to be a resident of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it follows that this group of tax residents should be treated in the same way as all other residents of the Netherlands and should therefore also pay vehicle tax and bpm for vehicles which these residents have been using and/or owning here all this time;]] [[Considering that, since 2011, only a few thousand persons have registered in the Personal Data Basic Registration (BRP) and that the number of car owners among them has fallen from more than 30% to 10%, according to their own declaration, and that half of them are also composed of Dutch migrants;]] [[whereas in many Dutch streets there are numerous cars with foreign license plates parked for a long time and are clearly used by people who live and/or work here for more than six months and that CBS statistics actually show that there is a multiple of a few thousand people living in the Netherlands from Eastern Europe alone;]] [[noting that it appears that it is not possible to align the (car) taxation of this group with that of other residents of the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether registration in the BRP can become compulsory for this group and how an automatic link of registered registrations to that registration can take place or alternatively mandatory conversion to Dutch registration of vehicles, which are used here for more than 183 days a year and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the general discussion we discussed the cuts in the tax administration. On balance, these huge cuts also lead to quite high numbers of people who will no longer be working in the Tax Administration. It's about a thousand people. I have also talked about targeted investments to ensure that the tax authorities can raise more money. Then you can put more people to work. In the meantime, the Secretary of State has made a commitment that he will do so. In fact, the Ministry is already working on concrete cases to ensure that the tax administration with targeted investments can raise more money. I will therefore not table a motion, but I will wait very carefully for the concrete proposals of the Secretary of State. We hope they come to the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u3	Mr. Chairman. The IRS has had another turbulent year. We see that, albeit with whims and whims, the fight against improper use and fraud with surcharges is beginning to bear fruit. At the same time, we have seen the downside of this approach in recent months. In practice, the policy to immediately offset overpaid surcharges with new payments sometimes leads to people being far below the minimum standard of living. There are signs that the so-called unwound foot is not being respected. My intention was to table a motion on this, but I am using a similar approach to Mr Bashir. My intention was to table a motion to address this problem, but I will not do so because the cabinet has sent a good letter announcing a fundamental approach to this problem. We do not want to get in the way of the cabinet here, but, as Mr Bashir does on his point, we will continue to keep a close eye on the cabinet to see whether progress is being made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u4	Mr. Chairman. There's more control by the IRS, that just goes and you just see. Cases are being discovered and fraud is being dealt with. It is a profit that appeals to me very much, because so many former tax inspectors are not in this Chamber. When I read the newspaper in this way over the last few days, however, I get the feeling that all the files of the Netherlands can be looked at in a moment if we wait a while and don't pay attention. I now believe that a Member of Parliament should have many rights and that we should, above all, tackle fraud properly, but I am concerned if all possible cases of agreements can also be made by a private individual. This is bad for our locational environment, precisely where real activities and employment are concerned. I am very concerned when every citizen in the Netherlands is about to be left open. I would like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the AO and in the written answers, I did not receive an answer to my question about the significant delays in the handling of the mail. In the meantime, like the entire permanent Chamber of Finance, I have received further problems. These are situations where taxable persons are required to send forms or evidence. Then the Tax Office claims to have not received them and you have to send them again; some people up to ten times. The application is then rejected because the form or evidence had not been sent. There are even people who are sending their documents to the Tax Office, now also to the permanent Chambers Committee or the National Ombudsman, because it is not possible to send them by registered mail. That is why I ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that taxpayers should send all letters to Heerlen and that sometimes there are months of delays in scanning and forwarding mail. How long are these delays and what is being done about them? This leads to kafkaesque situations, because people can even end up in government proceedings. I'd like an extensive response. As far as foreign taxation is concerned, I have another pressing question. All provisional attacks on foreign taxpayers have been repealed as of 2015. They have to report again, but that's not possible electronically. The paper form could be ordered from the beginning of November, but the first taxpayers we heard received the form only on 29 November. The form had to be received by the Tax Administration before 30 November, otherwise you will not receive a provisional refund before January 2015. Thus, no foreign taxpayer will receive a refund in January, for example for the mortgage interest deduction. I mean, this is kind of the Tax Department's fault, isn't it? It concerns a lot of people, who are, for example, frontier workers. Can the Secretary of State confirm this problem and how are we going to solve this? Finally, I come to the shelters. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter, but I would like the solution we have been asking for for months to come not at the end of the year, but at 1 January. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the announced change in the concept of a partner is desirable and necessary, and notes that this has been argued throughout the autumn in the Chamber;]] [[considers that it is undesirable that people in shelters should be wrongly regarded as each other's payment partners and thus, for example, lose the single parent on the child-related budget, a loss of thousands of euros per year;]] [[calls on the Government, as of 1 January, to anticipate the amendment of the law, for example by adopting a policy decision approving it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer the questions in the order of the list. This evening we are discussing all kinds of issues that are not related, other than that they are dealt with in a single VAO Tax Office. In his motion, Mr Van Vliet says: it would be so nice if after six months someone were obliged to register in the Basic Registration Persons and that this man or woman would be immediately reminded that road taxes on his or her car must be paid. What is called for in the motion is policy! That's what we're doing already. The motion has been carried out, even more so: in the context of "prevention rather than cure," this is actively done. For example, information meetings are held for Poland in Polish, where they are told that they are required to do so. The motion is therefore exactly what we are aiming for. The motion is policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u7	I note that many Poles and other Eastern Europeans do not seem to do so. The half-yearly report shows that there are a few thousand people, whereas the CBS assumes that there are more than 100,000 Poles here. I think they have 100,000 cars together. What happens to all those cars? We are really stuck with a hole and I hope we agree that we need to close that hole. If we do not do so, then we will also damage the tax morals of other Dutch people. At the end of the motion, I ask the government whether it is possible to require transposition on a Dutch registration number and, if not, whether anything else is possible. Has it really been investigated whether or not it's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u8	The motion refers to parties I do not go about, for example the National Road Traffic Agency and the police. There's a happier viper. Mr Van Vliet said earlier in a general consultation that there are many Polish plates on his street. That is quite possible, because to pay vehicle tax in the Netherlands, you do not have to have a Dutch registration number. A lot of people apply neatly, pay car tax in the Netherlands, but keep their Polish license plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u9	Of course, that doesn't rule out the fact that a lot of Poles don't pay taxes, because their cars can't be traced. You can close that hole by having those license plates converted into a Dutch license plate. If we do that, we'll be done with it once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u10	It doesn't work. If an offender goes public with the IRS, we'll put an end to it. That happens regardless of the license plate. When people pay their car tax on a Polish license plate, they're done. If they change it to a Dutch license plate, they're off too. That doesn't make finding these people any easier. We agree that there is an enforcement hole and that we must assume that all kinds of people drive around the Netherlands for a long time with a foreign license plate or a foreign car without paying for it. That happens, but that has not so much to do with the question of whether someone has a Dutch or a foreign license plate. So, yeah, there's still a way to go. Addressing this problem is more preventive than curative. We can hunt for offenders, but of course it's about pointing out to people that they have to sign up. And when they do, you have to take them with you automatically, and that's what the new procedure is about. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bashir asked about the business cases. They're working on it. He didn't ask for the date in a very polite way. I thought if I could mention that date, I'd exceed his expectations. Only I can't mention that date right now! But they're working on it, and I'll let him know when that piece comes up. Then he doesn't have to look in the mailbox every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u11	The Secretary of State has already mentioned the date in the debate on the Tax Plan. That's why I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u12	I don't think that was an exact date, but good. I would also like to thank Mr Groot for his patience. We hope not to disappoint him. Mrs Neppérus asked about the confidentiality of data. It has undoubtedly done so in the light of the recent discussions and calls for rulings. It is clear that the Netherlands does want to play a leading role in the exchange of rulings between tax administrations. Indeed, between tax authorities it remains in the domain of confidentiality, at least in so far as foreign tax authorities are bound by the same confidentiality as the Dutch authorities, and only then can there be an exchange of information. There is absolutely no need to be ashamed of our rulings. The Netherlands has just received an 8.5 from the General Court, so to speak. After that we also received an 8.5 from the Commission, which had one question on 13 different rulings on one point, which is now being examined. That is therefore a thorough ruling practice. The question now is whether this exchange will continue and whether we want the data to be submitted to Parliament in a more systematic way, for example. I feel very little about systematically submitting rulings to Parliament. Businesses, as well as citizens, must have maximum confidence that their confidential information remains confidential. Without this confidentiality, on which taxation is based, taxation is not possible. We must be extremely careful about this. We have devoted a whole piece of legislation to this, and that is not for nothing. On top of that, it is important for the establishment environment that parties can rely on it. One of the assets of the Dutch location climate is clarity in advance. Everything goes according to the law, but there is clarity in advance. Parties can be deterred by such ideas and therefore no longer ask for that clarity in advance, which puts pressure on an important asset of the Dutch locational climate. At the same time, it has been pointed out several times that Parliament should be able to exercise its supervisory role in relation to the rulings. I have some suggestions for that. The first is that the Court of Auditors may open any box and look into any paper. The Court of Auditors has done so recently. Of course, an understanding of a ruling can be given in individual cases, but this must be an individual case and must also be a particular reason for doing so. Furthermore, a proper balance must be struck between the democratic importance and the individual right to maximum confidentiality. In such a case it might be possible, but that is something other than systematically presenting it. My proposal would be that I can go as far as to commit to a technical session in which we go through some of those rulings on anonymised basis. There is a small warning: it is complex matter. On anonymised basis, so without mentioning names, walking through a number of concrete rulings seems to me a feasible map. I would also very much like to do that, because a clean ruling practice deserves to be shown to Parliament. In addition, I had a similar discussion yesterday in the Upper House. At its request, I promised the First Chamber a note stating where the cabinet wants to go, how it sees this confidentiality and how it sees it in relation to the Chamber's right to information. I intended to send that note not only to the First Chamber but also to the Second Chamber, as one understands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u13	I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State himself is bringing this up, because this is a final debate, in which there is no possibility of discussing it with each other or asking for a ruling from the Chamber. It would be good if the Secretary of State also addressed the issue of the four Members of Parliament that has been published in the promised memorandum, and if it also addressed the question of whether it would be possible to inform the Chamber confidentially about matters which the Chamber considers important.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u14	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u15	I agree with the line the Secretary of State just outlined. I hear Mr Bashir is expanding it again, which makes sense from his point of view. This confidentiality is important to me, and I want to see it confirmed again, because people need to be able to go after it and make agreements without everyone looking at it. Does the Secretary of State want to watch over that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u16	Yes, I have just said that I do not see systematic parliamentary scrutiny of individual cases in rulings. I'll explain in the note why I don't see it on a confidential basis either. I will also go into it in the note when this can be requested in particular cases, because in one case the democratic interest may be greater than the right to information of the Chamber, as long as we do it in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u17	Firstly, I very much appreciate the Secretary of State sending this note to the Chamber. I hope that we can receive it somewhere in January, or at least in the not too long term, and then we can have the debate quietly. That was also the thrust of my motion; not immediate access to all rulings, but an idea of exactly what is happening. This could then be met. Secondly, there seems to be a hint in there somewhere that has not been pronounced, namely that something comes out when you give it to the Chamber for confidential inspection. That is not the case. That only happens in exceptional circumstances and then the National CID is put on it. A confidential inspection of the Chamber is therefore a completely confidential inspection. Those are the rules we agreed on. I hope the Secretary of State will take that into account. Can the Secretary of State respond to the European Parliament's request for access, which he has probably already received? Does that get access, or in what way does the Secretary of State deal with that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u18	I can't go into it yet. I think it is a very understandable request. It is also in line with the Dutch ambition to play a leading role in the exchange of rulings. What, how and under what circumstances that happens, I really need to take a look, because I actually saw it half an hour ago. Mr Omtzigt is always very well informed, so he is quite right to ask this question. The note I prepared would be the right place to go on this as well. So that is what I am saying. Mr Omtzigt asked a question in the AO to which he referred. It was about an individual case where something would go wrong with the payment scheme. That's been checked out, and it turned out to be perfectly correct. There has been a transfer from regional offices to the National Collection Centre, because the collection is centralized in the Netherlands. During that transition, a number of things went wrong, including in the case of Mr Omtzigt. It seems that the case is not of a structural nature, but it is regrettable, because it is ultimately the organization that, in a transition, does something wrong. Now the questions seem to be broader. Mr Omtzigt talks about the delays in the processing of mail in Heerlen. I have to tell him honestly: I am not aware of that. It's worth trying to figure that out, but it's not gonna work out this time. I'm on it. I can say the following about the foreign tax liability and the case mentioned by Mr Omtzigt. It's true: there's been a production disruption. That's why a letter was sent too late. Whether it could actually be received on 29 November, I wonder. The fact is that the time between receiving and responding was very short. In the meantime, this period has been extended until 15 December, to give everyone the opportunity to do so. Anyone who received the letter on 29 November and fulfilled the obligations on an appropriate and reasonable date is well ahead of 15 December and does not fall into the gap described by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u19	I thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to check it out in Heerlen. Unfortunately, it is a large number of letters that have reached us. It has to be remembered that there are probably also people who do not know how to find us with their problems. That is why I thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to find out. Furthermore, I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has promised that it will be possible until 15 December, but of course there are people who have had that letter on 29 November and have thought: well, 30 November, can't. Is it possible to put it on the website and do something for people who send it in before 1 January? Then it doesn't come to payout on the regular date, there will of course be delay, and I get that. However, if it is announced now, people can still get it in January or February.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u20	That doesn't quite work. We can easily put it on the website. It is also the new habit to report any errors on the website. From the homepage of the website you can click on the things that have not gone well. It is possible to pay a higher amount as from February, and it will also be possible to pay a higher amount as from February. From February it will then be twelve eleventh of the amount. People get the money anyway. This is a regrettable mistake. There has simply been a distortion of production. It happens every once in a while. People do have the same problem with that. I can't prevent it very well, but it's very annoying. This kind of thing happens. I think it's already on the site, but I'm not entirely sure. Practical solutions have not worked well on the issue of shelters. I have been sensitive to the argument to do something about it. The intention is therefore to do so. Reactive force may succeed, at least that is tried. The intention is to provide retroactive force. It is very complicated to anticipate a law that does not even exist in concept and that does not yet show exactly the grounds on which a person is eligible. I would like to deal with that earlier, but I think that a solution is better than no solution. "Reactive force" is highly probable, "progress on" is not, and therefore I must discourage the adoption of the motion for a resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u21	In itself, I find this one of the most pleasant ways in which a motion has ever been dissuaded in the Chamber. If the Secretary of State succeeds in resolving this with retroactive effect and publish it as soon as possible, I understand that it will not be possible within a few days, that is perfectly understandable........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I shall then wait for the retroactive effect to be carried out. I'll keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u22	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (31066, No. 225). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u23	Then I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u24	Mr. Chairman. It is not quite clear to me what the State Secretary's opinion is on the Van Vliet motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u25	I don't recommend accepting that. This has already been executed
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-17-tweedekamer-18.u26	I propose that we vote tomorrow on the remaining motion.
