ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The members of the CDA Group appreciate the government's concern, now more than in the past, about the feasibility of the tax system and the possibilities, but above all limitations, of the Tax Administration. Apparently, recent experiences with the inadequate payment system and the automatic data processing by the Tax Administration have been an important reason for this change in the government's attitude. Year after year, the Tax Administration was saddled with new measures in the past, without serious consideration being given to whether these measures were also feasible in the often short implementation period envisaged by the legislator. In addition to the Tax Administration, of course, citizens also have an interest in a system that is as simple as possible and in clear, transparent legislation. The Communist Group also believes that the current tax burden on labour in particular is too high and that it would be very good for the economy and the approach to unemployment if this pressure, also referred to as the "wig" would go down. In this area, however, the Tax Plan makes little or no contribution. There is a lot of reference to an uncertain future. The members of the CDA Group are therefore disappointed by the lack of ambition, vision and decisiveness that this Tax Plan emits. The tax increases we denounced in the previous Tax Plan and the related tax plans, such as the tax increases with very adverse consequences in the border region and the landlord tax with very serious consequences for the housing market, are not mitigated, let alone reversed. On the contrary, this Tax Plan will add new burdens. The first share of income tax goes up, although it is slightly less than initially foreseen, the tax reductions go down faster for middle income, the energy tax for businesses increases, the waste tax increases, and director-large shareholders will have to pay themselves a higher wage, while from 2016 onwards the elderly discount is reduced and the elderly allowance in box 3. The reflex of this cabinet is still to give priority to expenditure restrictions. There are no necessary reform proposals for our tax system; they are being postponed and made dependent on the availability of sufficient lubricating oil in the form of billions of euros to finance or make the reforms bearable. This will make the tax reform dependent on the economic recovery of the Netherlands, while the tax reform must help to achieve and drive this economic recovery. Let us not forget that the current forecast growth rates for 2015 are largely driven by factors on which the Netherlands has no influence, such as the oil price and the price of the euro. A reduction in the wedge through tax reform would be an important contribution of the Netherlands to improving growth and reducing unemployment. The Secretary of State points to an uncertain future for many of our proposals in the report for improvements to the current system. Provided that lubricating oil is found in the range between EUR 3 billion and EUR 5 billion, he says he will gradually come forward with proposals to reform our tax system: quietly, wait, everything will be new, heaven and earth, including our tax system. It is significant that the government notes in the reply that it is not the intention of this cabinet to find the room for tax relief by cutting back. This means that this space must be found by shifting burdens and by the hopeful growth of the economy. The main question, however, is whether we can afford to keep all this going for so long. In our opinion, this cabinet can already be expected to be more effective in this area. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response. This Friday it is exactly 100 years since the Income Tax Act 1914 saw life. The spiritual father of this law, Minister of Finance Willem Treub, knew that the crisis in which the Netherlands had just broken out of the First World War, even though we had been spared from war violence, posed major budgetary challenges for our country. Treub didn't have time to wait for lubricating oil to introduce the new system. The need of time forced him to move on. After the split income tax introduced by Pierson at the end of the nineteenth century, the tax on corporate and other income from 1893 and the property tax from 1892, a general and progressive income tax was introduced in 1914. This marked the turn of a state which drew its taxes mainly from expenditure in the form of consumption taxes such as import duties and excise duties, to a state which wanted to base its taxes on a tax which wanted to tax income according to carrying capacity. It was not just expenditure, also the part of income saved, that had to be taxed. On the basis of the law of the declining bordernut, a moderate progression had to be taken into account: as income increased, the tax burden gradually increased. The highest rate was 5% for incomes above 20,000 guilders. Contrary to Pierson's capital tax, which, when taxing capital income, was based on a legally established fictitious return of 4%, the Real Capital Income was taxed in the IB 1914 Act. The income from labour and the income from capital were more or less fixed in the same way; the rate was applied to the whole income. Thus there was a synthetic income tax. The fact that the IB 1914 Act cannot be fully characterised as a tax on real income was due to the source fiction system, but it found its cause in the technical impossibility at that time to work with provisional attacks and precharges. The starting point was the levy based on real income from capital and labour. That was then seen as progress. How wretched is it, then, that in box 3 in 2014 we do not tax real income from capital, but just like in 1892, we assume a fictitious return of 4%, which is currently taxed at a rate of 30%. Therefore, with box 3, we actually have a capital tax and there is no actual income tax on actual income from capital. Although box 3 has undeniable advantages from the point of view of simplicity, this box also has disadvantages. The fictitious return of 4% is mainly felt by risk-avoiding savers as an injustice. They are expected to achieve a capital return of 4%, while their actual return has been well below that for years. The existence of a tax-free capital is not always a solution for this category of savers. They have only been helped by taxing their actually realised return on their savings accounts. I know that the Secretary of State does not want to anticipate the system discussion, but would he at least confirm that this is technically easy to achieve, as the financial institutions can provide this data? For the more complicated situations where capital gains and losses are also shown, more time is needed to find a just solution that is consistent with the principle of carrying capacity without losing the simplicity of box 3. We would like to know what plans the Secretary of State has for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr Essers cites Treub and mentions tax according to carrying capacity. Is the CDA group also for wealth income tax according to carrying capacity, like Treub?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u4	You ask how you see the ideal system in the long term. We must all have this discussion. I don't want to throw away the simplicity that box 3 brought. I believe that we should strive for an intermediate form between the very rough but simple box 3 system and the extremely complicated capital gains tax system. I do want us to deal with the risk-avoiding savers now. This can simply be done by looking at their actual income on the savings accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u5	I understand Senator Essers, but he's not answering my question. The question is whether the CDA Group is also in favour of a load on capital income. He answers that he likes to keep it simple, but you can keep everything simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u6	The counter-question is: what exactly does Mr Reuten have in mind? You might as well defend that box 3 is already trying to tax capital revenue. We agree that this is not yet being done in the right way. In order to introduce a heavier capital tax or a capital gain tax immediately, I go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u7	So I asked if the CDA Group is for progression. Mr Essers does not answer and then asks what I think. My answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u8	Progression is another question. I understand that Mr Reuten is in favour of this. The CDA is for a flat tax, although there is room for a slightly higher rate for the highest incomes. We clearly want to remain moderate in the progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u9	It is a good thing that Mr Essers calls the flat tax. However, he does not describe flat tax but a tax system with two rates. I would like to come back to the previous point. Mr Essers rightly raises the problem of the present rate of return in box 3. My group recognises the problem. On the other hand, he appoints the feasibility and the execution of the tax administration. Can he indicate in concrete terms how assets can be treated differently in box 3, with as little disruption as possible to the current implementation capacity of the Tax Administration? That goes beyond the savings, doesn't it? Power is more than just savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u10	Yeah, that's exactly what I said. For the complicated situations we will have to deal with the current system of box 3 for the time being, until the Secretary of State comes up with his plan. However, my question to the Secretary of State is whether it would not be a huge concession for the large category of risk-averse savers to tax the actual income on profit savings accounts. I ask this because banks can supply this data very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u11	So you ask the Secretary of State to consider creating a special rate of return on cash savings? Is that what you're saying, or is it going wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u12	That's exactly how it is. This is a special category of investment items held by risk-averse savers. You should be making a contribution to this by now, because of the fact that a far too high rate of return has been taken into account for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u13	I recognise the bottleneck, but Mr Essers is already shifting from savings to risk-free investment products. In my view, this is where the problem of implementation begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u14	Yes, of course, we are not trying to formulate the concrete legislative text here. However, that should not be an argument for not thinking at all about it and not challenging the Secretary of State to come up with regulations that can remove the bottlenecks. That is the essence of my speech. Soon Emeritus will publish Professor Fiscal Economy, Leo Stevens, a new edition of his 2001 Income Tax Handbook. As a kind of package leaflet accompanying this handbook, the publication "100 years of income tax and how to proceed?'. In this brochure, Stevens has provided an overview of, in his view, "wishful and feasible legislative possibilities for reform" which could lead to effective simplifications and adjustments to existing income tax. In the reply, the State Secretary states that he does not wish to anticipate the results of the tax review and that he is therefore unable to respond to Professor Stevens' proposals in that context. We regret this reaction. Many of Stevens' proposals cost little or no money, but they do lead to an improvement and simplification of our tax system. Why wait for the new system if these proposals can be introduced with little difficulty in the short term? By way of example, I would like to mention the following proposals: adjustment of the set-off of personal deductions, proposal 3, silent transition from business to activity, proposals 4 and 81, adjustments to the concept of a partner, proposals 10 and 11, broadening the distribution of income between partners, proposal 14, replacing the book value requirement with the reinvestment reserve in a residual value requirement, proposal 27, and I could go on for a while. We would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. Compared to 100 years ago, fiscal instrumentalism has taken a very big turn. That started in the 1970s and 1980s. This phenomenon leads to far-reaching complexity, resulting in additional administrative burdens. It also has the effect of creating constant tensions with the principle of equality. Last year, when examining the Tax Plan 2014, the First Chamber adopted a motion on fiscal instrumentalism tabled by myself and colleague Bröcker of the VVD. This motion calls on the government, first, to develop policies to substantially reduce the number of tax expenditure, secondly, to introduce new tax expenditure only after the objective and necessity of this have been demonstrated, in conjunction with an ex-ante evaluation, third, to periodically monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of these measures, and finally to link the duration of new tax expenditure to a horizon. The members of the CDA Group have asked the government in the report to indicate to what extent it has implemented this motion in the preparation of the 2015 Tax Plan, in particular with regard to the now amended lease scheme. In the reply, the State Secretary points out that the 2015 Tax Plan does not contain any new tax expenditure. On the other hand, however, there is no question of a structural reduction in tax expenditure. The same applies to the State Secretary's reply on how this motion was applied to leasing arrangements. The answer given by the Secretary of State that this is a change to an already existing regime is, of course, not satisfactory. Instrumentalism must be reduced, and the same applies to existing regulations. Let me therefore put the question differently. Would the Secretary of State have in mind this arrangement with the motion if it hadn't been there yet? In the Essers/Bröcker motion, the instrumental use of taxes is not excluded, but it indicates that you have to use a review framework before you, as a legislator, decide to do so. Some fiscal measures may indeed be useful and useful under the conditions laid down in the motion. In view of the still existing problems in the housing market, for example, we can agree with the measures contained in this Tax Plan to stimulate the housing market. One of the proposals envisages the longer deduction of residual debts for debts arising after 29 October 2012. To our question why this scheme cannot also be applied to residual debts that arose before 29 October 2012, the government answers that it does not intend to do so because the owners in the category concerned have already sold their property. Then there is no reason to promote flow. But is this a convincing argument? A recent report by the IMF shows that the Netherlands should pay particular attention to the debt position of existing homeowners, especially the younger mortgage lenders. That's what's going on here, isn't it? Moreover, it should be ensured that this category is not able to buy a new property in the long term due to this debt position. I would therefore like to ask once again the attention of the Secretary of State for this. Much has already been said about the landlord levy. Apparently, the government does not want to understand that this tax is really a blockage for the creation of new investments by housing corporations. Recent reports on increasing reserves held by housing corporations for future attacks confirm this. I repeat our plea that this levy should include additional incentives in the form of tax rebates for new investments, because that is what the sector needs very much. I'd like a response from the government. I've come to the problem of fees. In the reply, the Government states that it is considering whether institutions in the childcare sector can receive the childcare allowance by default, but that it does not, for the time being, see any reason to pay the allowance directly to the institutions themselves. Can the Secretary of State make it clear on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis on which this statement is based? All reasonableness seems to have disappeared when it comes to the application of the partner concept in reception situations. If a person who is homeless or, for example, has run away from a violent spouse ends up in a shelter and lives with several persons in alternating combinations with and without children in this home, there may be undesirable consequences for the scheme of inter alia the allowances. If two adults are registered at the same address in the Basic Registration Persons and a child of one of them is registered at this address, they are compulsory partners for income tax and supplements. There is only a counter-proofing option in the case of rental or sub-lease. The members of the CDA Group call on the government to put an end to this absurd situation, in which people who have nothing to do with each other but only happened to be temporarily in the same shelter, as partners. Doesn't Stephen Hawking's prophecy threaten that robots are going to dominate man to become truth? In the end, must man always be able to repair absurd outcomes of a computer model? In this context, I welcome the statement made by the Secretary of State in the note following the report that there has been a discussion at official level with the Federation of Reception. We are of course curious whether this discussion has already led the Secretary of State to the decision to make an exception to the concept of a partner. It would be a nice gesture in these dark days before Christmas. We have also taken note with great interest of what the Secretary of State tells us in the reply about the progress of the BEPS project. Could the Secretary of State explain why, in the context of the innovation box, the innovations for which an S&D certificate has been issued may no longer be covered by this box in the future because of the so-called modified nexus approach? And is it true that in the future it is not only a requirement that the user of the facility has produced the intangible asset itself, but also that all development activities must take place in the Netherlands? How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Last year we expressed all our concerns about the lack of democratic legitimacy of this BEPS project carried out by the G20 and OECD. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the follow-up will be when the entire BEPS report is completed? When will the national parliaments be discussed? Do they have anything to say at all? How does he envisage the possibility of a multilateral instrument under which tax treaties could be adapted without the need to adapt existing bilateral tax treaties first? What is the government's position on such a multilateral instrument and what is the Parliament's position on this? Partly as a result of the current Starbucks case on prohibited state aid, the Dutch ruling policy has recently been put in the spotlight again. We are also concerned about this, because the ruling policy has always been a sign of a transparent, expert Dutch Tax Administration, which is willing to provide clarity for the future within the standards of law and case law. The legal certainty thus offered is a major asset for international companies wishing to make investments in the Netherlands. We believe that the fact that this policy is now being discredited is wrong. This is without prejudice to the fact that it should be possible for individual rulings to assess whether legal limits have been exceeded, e.g. in the field of prohibited State aid. This is currently in the Starbucks case. In this context, we also welcome the intention of the Tax Administration to exchange Dutch tax rules with the tax authorities of treaty partners. As far as I know, that was already the case in the past. It is strange, however, that the Dutch Parliament does not have a confidential right of access to these rulings. In doing so, Parliament cannot fully fulfil its supervisory role. I am not talking about a right of inspection with regard to individual taxable persons, which everyone can understand, but about a right of inspection. In order to avoid unnecessary rumors surrounding the rulings, it would appear desirable to allow a strictly confidential procedure, which would allow parliamentarians to understand the content of rulings issued. We would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr Essers just made an interesting point, namely that of giving confidential access to Parliament. But then what? Let me ask you this for the sake of clarity. Is there also an opportunity in Mr Essers' view for Parliament to question the Secretary of State in a confidential consultation? It could also be that you say: I just want to know the rules in which rulings can be given, without having to know each individual case. I'm just curious how Mr Essers sees that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u16	There are different modalities. You can bring together a number of rulings anonymized and say: this is the policy. So you could have a debate on that. However, sometimes, as with this Starbucks case, everyone talks about it and has an opinion on it, except for Parliament, because it has no access to it. I would like to see, by analogy with the committee's sneak, whether there is any possibility for parliamentarians to get a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u17	It will not be strange for Mr Essers to feel that a party with a high regard for democracy is being called upon to do so. I still find it difficult, because from the Starbucks case you can say that it is now under the courts and that Parliament should not be discussing this until the matter is settled. So let me stick to the first: we get more insight into the rules of rule. If you want confidential access rights, there is also a tendency to make it an individual political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u18	That would not be desirable. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to clarify the pros and cons of this for once. If we do not get there today or tomorrow, we may be able to do so later, but this is an extremely important thing. I find it strange that Parliament should allow all this to happen, without the possibility of having access to it itself. Again, I am absolutely not seeking to abolish the rule-making policy. On the contrary, I want to protect it from unnecessary rumors.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u19	Are you definitely going back to your place, Mr. Bröcker? Or are you going to the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u20	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u21	We'll wait and see. I shall now move on to another subject. I would like to draw attention to the reliability of the government's estimates of revenue and expenditure. It is common that ex post estimates of revenue appear to be far higher than the reality. As an example, I would like to mention the estimated revenue from the introduction of the full corporate tax liability of housing corporations in 2008. The revenue was estimated at EUR 500 million in structural terms at the time. The actual revenues for the period 2008 to 2011 were EUR 16.8 million, EUR 8.1 million, EUR 2.3 million and EUR 6.2 million respectively! The reply gives a number of plausible reasons for this, but the fact is that at that time the feasibility of the EUR 500 million estimate was strongly questioned from various sides. For this year, I also foresee that the expected additional dividend payments due to the temporary reduction of the box 2 tariff will be very disappointing, particularly as there is still no solution for the self-employed pension. The department is working hard on it, with all due respect, but there is still no real solution that makes it possible for dividends to be distributed easily. Therefore, the likelihood of the government's estimated additional income and dividend tax of more than 1 billion as a result of additional distributions of dividends is extremely low. Last year we also expressed our reservations about the feasibility of this amount. We have the same doubts about achieving the extra estimated revenue as a result of the tribal law measure last year. The assessment of tax expenditure also appears to be inconsistent with reality on a number of occasions. An example is the expected loss of income resulting from the temporary extension of the allowance. Costs are underestimated, revenues are overestimated. However, important decisions are taken on the basis of such shaky forecasts, for example in the framework of a cabinet formation or as a responsibility to the European Commission. What comes out of these projections afterwards gets much less attention. In our opinion, Parliament is entitled to be informed by the government about the margins of uncertainty that are always attached to these predictions. In the reply, the Government acknowledges that the degree of uncertainty may vary from one measure to another. I would like to accept that the cabinet uses the best possible estimate, regardless of the degree of uncertainty, but we are concerned that Parliament, as co-legislator, should be aware of these uncertainties before it can agree to a proposed measure. The more uncertainty, the less credible is an estimate. I therefore repeat my appeal to the government to share these margins of uncertainty with Parliament in advance. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. We look forward with great interest to the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and not least his officials for the annual piece of art in order to respond extensively in a few days to the questions raised by the Finance Committee on the Tax Plan. This requires expertise and good planning. Many other ministries could learn from Finance. The political direction of the cabinet, which is often implied, is somewhat less to my group's liking. He's going the wrong way. In our opinion, but also - as I will show - according to the government agreement. I'll discuss four topics. Firstly, I give a general appreciation of this Tax Plan. Secondly, I am talking about the nature of the estimates and policy effects. Thirdly, I refer to the revision of the tax system, and finally I have a question that falls under the category of 'different'. So I will first give a general appreciation of this Tax Plan. In last year's Tax Plan, we had 14.2 billion in tax changes, with a balance tax increase of 2.2 billion. The present 2015 Tax Plan covers 2.2 billion in tax changes for 2015. The change in the 2015 budgetary envelope is relatively small, i.e. 0.35 billion tax cuts. But a corresponding amount of net tax increase, namely 0.33 billion is already planned for 2016. It'll be taken away from the elderly. From 2015, there are three structural income measures of net 688 million in tax relief. The result is that the relative income position of the upper 26% of the income distribution is improving, that of the lower 35% remains the same and that of the intermediate middle incomes are declining. The latter was also rightly claimed by the CDA group on the other side, on which the cabinet considered it necessary to refute this unfoundedly. These are small steps of 0.25% change in purchasing power. More importantly, what is lacking in this Tax Plan is income-relevant measures, but on which promises had been made in the government agreement for some time. I refer to the infamous Zijlstra/Samsom motion of November 2012, in which the cabinet was instructed "to achieve the desired reduction between high and low incomes." Wanted? It did not happen in 2013, it did not happen in 2014 and it is not expected to happen in 2015. If we look at the median purchasing power change in the three years of this cabinet period, the total of households according to the CPB is +1%. According to the CPB classification, however, the lower 35% is at zero and the rest is at positive. The same applies to the top 25% and the top 10%. What do you mean, reducing income disparities? The PvdA is constantly being fooled by the VVD. Last year, in the General Political Reviews, Senator Barth pointed out "the importance of small income differences in order to create a society of solidarity." Senator Postma then said in the General Financial Reviews: "For the Labour Party, reducing income differences is a key element of policy." Does the PvdA spokesperson dare to repeat this in today's debate? I'm gonna drop a silence. No, not yet. No additional contribution is required from high incomes. My group rejects a tax plan in which this does not happen. For the PvdA Group, this must be a painful tax plan, not because of what is in it, but because of what is not in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u23	I have a small technical question for Mr Reuten. In the General Financial Reviews, he took both direct and indirect taxes in a deciel classification. My question is whether he has done so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u24	No, these are just the CPB numbers. These are just the CPB purchasing power figures. I have in my speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u25	From direct plus indirect taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u26	Yes. For the CPB purchasing power this is calculated, at least, the indirect taxes are based on a price index. The figures are in footnote 2 of my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u27	I am not going to risk a numerical discussion with Mr Reuten. However, I would like to make a comment. One way or another, we're all going to be very unhappy about whether or not to level out the Tax Plan. Mr Reuten says that no steps have been taken in leveling. My group, and I also think that the VVD as a party is unhappy with the income-dependent tax rebate. Sometimes I find the discussion a little shady. I know there are different political forces when you talk about carrying weight, leveling and what's more. But I must honestly say that I have some difficulty suggesting that no steps would have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u28	I do not quite understand what you mean, because I am simply quoting the CPB figures on purchasing power. If you look at those figures for the current government period, 2013-2015, at a median purchasing power change of +1%, you see the bottom at 0% and the top at positive. I didn't come up with those numbers. They're just in macro economic reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u29	Of course it is. But there is also an increase of half a billion in the employment discount, which mainly affects people in the third and fourth quartiles. That's how you come up with that difference. I'm looking at the three posts that have income effects. Mr. Chairman. I said that this must be a painful tax plan for the PvdA group, not for what it says, but for what it doesn't say. The coalition agreement is not my thing. I only note that the PvdA Group in this Chamber is reluctantly defending legislative proposals from the VVD case regularly, but I can already predict that tomorrow I will vote for a VVD tax plan that does not do what was agreed in the coalition. I can also predict that the PvdA will follow the VVD positions in the course of the tax review; more about this later. I believe that the Prime Minister has spoken about fruitful cooperation with the PvdA, and I understand that from the point of view of his party. My second point concerns the nature of the estimates relating to the tax and income policies of this cabinet. In the preliminary report, my group asked for the impact of the current cabinet's measures on disposable income as of 2017 for quartile groups of households to be passed on. The government replied that the impact for 2017 cannot yet be given, because it works with a new model, MIMOSI. We have my group, but I think we all here too are seriously hampered by this in our task of assessing and controlling government policy. Until recently, the current cabinet itself has always presented the policy effects up to 2017 as well as the structural impact, on the basis of the argument that government policy should also be assessed on the medium-term effects. That's impossible now. The note following the report states that we must wait for 2016 and the budget to be presented. I ask the Secretary of State if I understand correctly that the government itself is no longer aware of the policy implications for 2017. Is the government only moving in the short term? I believe that the CPB could make a revised structural prognosis for the government. We too are happy to receive them. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he wants to make a commitment to this. The average group size in this Chamber is 9.9 members. You may be perplexed, but this is because I do not count the small groups, 8% of the Members. I'm stunned, too. If we look at the purchasing power and the distribution of disposable income, then the government counts...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u30	For the sake of clarity, where do you set the limit for "small groups"? On one, two or five seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u31	Of course I am not referring to a group of five Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u32	You think it's big?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u33	I see it as a medium-sized group. I put the line on two. If we look at the purchasing power and the distribution of disposable income, then the government does not count households with the lowest incomes, which happens to include a group of 8%. This concerns non-intramural households. Those people can vote for the time being, just like the small groups here. That the lower 8% does not count, is stated in the reply and in the report of the Tax Plan 2015. If we involve in-house households, it's 9.9%. As I have now seen, the Central Planning Office is also doing so in its annual macroeconomic review. Can the Secretary of State tell me since how long the CPB doesn't count the lower 8% or 10%? Does the same happen with the passing on of election programmes and counter-budgets? If so, how does the government feel about that? This government approach raises the average income of the lower 25% of the income distribution nicely. Fortunately, we still have the CBS (Central Bureau of Statistics), which counts the lowest incomes. That's how I found out what's going on with the current CPB and government counts. In 2012, the Dutch median income was "the middle disposable income of households" "over €33.000." According to the government's CPB model MIMOSI it is almost €3,000 higher, 9%. Well, what's $3,000? But the median of the income group in the lower 25% is calculated as much as €4,700 too high and thus amounts to €17,100 instead of the actual €12,400. That's a 38% difference. Yeah, I'm stunned. In the end, the Secretary of State and his officials have written to us in detail about this. I appreciate that very much. What are we going to do about this and what are we going to do about it? The Secretary of State can tell me tomorrow that those 450,000 ignored households with an income of less than 63% of the statutory minimum wage are cramped, such as AOWs with incomplete benefits, residents living out of residence, low-income zzp'ers and WW'ers who had a small job, but why should we not include them in the income distribution? The Secretary of State writes in the note "that these households cannot be expected to remain on a very low or negative income for a long time." Even if this were to be the case, it would be a more or less permanent, but possibly variable, echelon of households? The Secretary of State states in the note: "the taking of this group would lead to a distorted image." That's an opinion. My group states that the government's attitude gives a distorted picture. There is, of course, also a political side to this cabinet. If you don't count those households, then the cabinet is more likely to achieve the goal of smaller income differences, apparently then. I'll ask the Secretary of State how he sees this. I also specifically ask the spokeswoman of the PvdA Group, who, like me, is also a scientist in another life. Do we count the echelon of the small groups in determining the average number of Members per group? When I said on my first subject that the cabinet does not reduce income differences, I based myself on the CPB figures. I said, if we look at the median purchasing power change in the three years from this cabinet period, the total of households according to the CPB is +1%. According to the CPB format, the lower 35% is at zero and the rest is at positive. But in reality, the bottom 43% is zero or below and the rest is relatively higher. We will not know until the CBS, the full agency, has published the 2015 figures in 2017. This cabinet has then left; if not most people in households that matter, poor or rich. I come to my third subject, the revision of the tax system. If this cabinet is allowed a year of life, then this revision should be the crown of this PvdA-supported VVD cabinet. Effectively, we already have a flat tax of about 33% in the Netherlands; all taxes included, Mr Van Strien. The figures recently reported to the CBS were provided by the government in Section 34000, letter G, Table A. I have added a graph to the report. Unfortunately, a short technical intermezzo of about two and a half minutes should now follow on the note. In Table 2, the Secretary of State gives a specific description of what he calls the burden burden. On its own, the arrangement of Table 2 is correct. If we fit the most recent CBS figures for this setup, that of 8 December, then there will be a so-called charge pressure of 42% for the first quartile and 52% for the fourth quartile. I assume that the Secretary of State agrees with the figures thus corrected on CBS basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u34	Mr Reuten has already said something about this subject in the General Financial Reviews. That was a reason for me to go deeper into it, because I didn't quite get it. It is now clear to me, from CBS figures. How can indirect taxes in particular be so much higher among the lowest income groups? I indicated at that time that this had to mean that it could be a different consumption package, and indeed it is. If you compare the lowest and highest tax groups, you see a relatively much higher consumption of alcohol, cigarette consumption and a much lower use of sports facilities and cultural facilities in the lowest tax groups than in the higher income categories. In short, they live unhealthy and less culturally. That is specifically what causes higher indirect taxes. What does Mr Reuten want with this table? Is this a plea for reducing indirect taxes, excise duties and VAT?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u35	I don't judge how people spend their income or why they do that. You say the lower 25% use more alcohol than the upper 25%. It could be. Maybe they should drown their grief. But that's not the point. I assume you, as spokesman for the PVV, do not want to intervene in the way people spend their income. I am looking at tax rates and tax revenues, and at the way they are divided into four 25% groups. I have no further opinion on the specific expenditures. If you want to intervene, you may need to make different differentiated rates for one or the other category of income.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u36	I'm not presenting this table. You present this table in which indirect taxes for the lower categories of income are much higher. You do this not for nothing, but for a certain purpose. That is why I am asking for the purpose of presenting this table.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u37	I just want to know what's going on. I see that there is a regular review of direct taxes. If you add the indirect taxes to that, you get a whole different picture. That's all I want to present.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mr Van Strien. You probably won't get much more of a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u39	No. So it is because different categories of income choose a different consumption package.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u40	That's not new, is it? One can drive a car and the other can't. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u41	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u42	I was at my technical intermezzo. The cabinet has presented an alternative table. That table is okay in what he does, but the figures need to be corrected a little bit on the basis of the latest CBS figures. However, the table presented by the Secretary of State is not appropriate if we consider the statutory charges, and that is what tax matters are about. The main difference between Table 2 and my set-up in Table A, with its graph, lies in non-compulsory contributions to private income insurance. These are the premiums not included in the net direct tax, which are shown in Table A and the graph. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that this is the most important difference? The next question then is why non-statutory compulsory contributions would be relevant to taxation and the revision of the tax system. Does the Secretary of State recognise that his so-called "total pressure" in Table 2 does not relate exclusively to the tax and contribution burden imposed on households? Table A and the chart, on the other hand, show the pressures for households on all statutory taxes and payments and, where relevant, on net taxes and payments such as direct taxes and health insurance. I have done no different than to display the CBS figures. I once again put the links in footnotes when I spoke. For the four quartile groups households this gives a virtually flat total pressure of 30%, 29%, 31% and 33%. This is before the increase in the VAT rate at the end of 2012, which is likely to attract almost the same amount. A tax on carrying capacity is completely lacking in these figures. I'll ask the Secretary of State to acknowledge this. And since the first deadline is also a debate between the spokesmen, I would ask the spokesperson of the PvdA Group in particular whether she recognizes this. But she doesn't want to get off her chair and that's her right. In view of the State Secretary's current plans, as laid down in his letter to the Chamber of 16 September, this flat tax is likely to be converted into a graduated tax. That is quite different from what Treub proposed, so I say to Mr Essers. If the starting point were to be a reduction in taxes on labour income, I see only two alternatives for increasing indirect taxes. First, a progressive capital tax or capital income tax. Secondly, a direct value added tax. For the latter I refer to the report Experimental economic research on the Van Elswijk Plan by Prof. Van Winden and others from the Economic Faculty, University of Amsterdam from 1999. This plan, this type of tax, deserves renewed attention under the changed circumstances and objectives, in particular those relating to labour income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u43	I have great admiration for Mr Reuten's calculations and for the tables. They're very insightful. However, there is a premise behind it, namely that the higher the income, the higher the rate. As income rises, the tax burden must also increase. But what's wrong with a flat tax at the same rate? That doesn't mean that as the income is higher, you're gonna pay less. You're going to pay more, but relatively the pressure remains the same. You know from the literature that there is a lot of criticism of the progressive rate. That leads to a lot of complexity. No one can read a paycheck anymore. And there is absolutely no consideration for the possibility of transferring taxes, so that actually the wrong people, probably the people you are referring to, who have to pay extra taxes. So you really need to answer the question of why you want progressive taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u44	I have a sentence on that in my text. I fully agree with you, Mr Essers. I'm not in favour of tax instrumentalism. The IRS is here to collect money and not to spend money. All these subtractions and hypocalculations and all that shit, we gotta get rid of that. In general, I am in favour of clear, progressive tax rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u45	But why progressive?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u46	I thought you were just talking about Treub with admiration and he was talking about taxation in terms of carrying capacity. That man is absolutely right, and that was in the first place in 1897. So you and I are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u47	I quoted Treub, because for the first time he really introduced a tax on real income, with indeed a very slight progression.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u48	You're pleading for half a Treub.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u49	I'm not arguing for anything. We are now living in 2014. The question is whether you can still translate a concept that may have been in force in the nineteenth century, with a progressive rate and decreasing bordernut, the laws of Gossen, into the time we live in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u50	In the end, of course, it is a moral political view whether or not you are in favour of taxation according to capacity. That's what political parties are for. I would like to ask whether you are familiar with the OECD's recent studies, which state that a deranged distribution of income is not good for economic growth. The moral political argument is one, but there are also economic arguments that play a role. Perhaps the OECD argument is a reason for you to choose a whole Treub after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u51	But my thesis is...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u52	Finally, Mr Essers, because I want to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u53	My point is you can't solve everything with taxes. One must appeal to society to moderate, if there is a tremendous increase in income. However, you should not have the illusion that you could do that with a progressive rate, because experience has shown that this is not possible, as it is being passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u54	I totally agree with you that you can't solve everything with taxes. I am therefore not in favour of instrumentalism. I am in favour of clear taxes and a clear progressive rate. Everyone will know where he is and everyone will know what the discussion is about. All this stuff about deductions and stuff, it's complicated. We fully agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u55	Except for the progressive rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u56	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u57	Mr Reuten, you've run out of time. So can you finish your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u58	I'm almost done, too. I have provided two alternatives and I ask the Secretary of State to send the Chamber a sketchy set-up for each of these two alternatives before 1 March 2015, with a total net pressure table and graph for 25% groups, similar to the mentioned Table A in Section 34000, letter G, including the full bottom 25% group. This is a pure ceteris paribus design, replacing only current income tax rates with the above-mentioned taxes under constant tax revenues. And without even tinkering with other variables as mentioned in the letter of 16 September. The latter does not alter the fact that, taking into account clear progressive taxes with clear broad bases, I am in favour of limiting tax instrumentalism, as we have just exchanged. On my fourth and final subject, I ask the Secretary of State to respond in writing to the suspicion that due to the accounting rules of the payroll tax, people with low wages pay €260 too much tax in 2015, unless they would make an IB declaration, which is unusual for them. More information can be found at http://tinyurl.com/salaryblog. If this is true, can the Secretary of State promise that he will compensate this amount in any simple way, under the motto: where there is a will, will Wiebes find a way? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna close with this. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u59	Madam President. That was a nice conclusion by Mr Reuten and a nice call. This is the case with this Secretary of State with an ambitious agenda, undoubtedly on the right track. It is also good that he gets the support of the Socialist Party for his ambitions and his will. My group's contribution to this first debate on the Tax Plan for this State Secretary and the last one during this parliamentary term of the Chamber I am now looking at Mr Essers..................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me briefly talk about the Tax Plan. I'll also pay a little attention to the IRS. Of course, I have to say something about the reform of the system. Last but not least, I would like to say a few words about the international developments around us. Before that, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State. He's had this part for ten months now. I don't know if that was honeymoon, but I don't have the idea. He has regularly had the honour to appear in the headlines of national newspapers. However, he has taken up the broad agenda very diligently. My group very much appreciates that. My group also appreciates the clear, business communication and interaction with the European Parliament, in my opinion, most of the groups in this Chamber. I can be quite brief about the Tax Plan. The reply was adequate. As the State Secretary points out, the limited size of the package gives the Tax Administration air and space for the improvements in the implementation of the current system. I just hope that in the coming period the Tax Administration will make full use of this space when it comes to internal adjustments. Complexity - which is often discussed in this Chamber - in our system, often inspired by fiscal instrumentalism, remains an extremely persistent phenomenon. A good example is the waste tax, which we have been able to deal with over and over again during this parliamentary term. As far as I know, it was introduced, adapted, abolished, re-implemented in 2014 and re-adapted in this Tax Plan. It is a measure with limited revenues of EUR 100 million and with the necessary legislative volatility. In addition, several, possibly valid, amendments have been added in the House of Representatives to soften the proposal, but also to complicate it further. How does the Secretary of State experience this example in our legislative process? Maybe he can say something about that. My group welcomes the first steps for reducing the burden on labour.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I sincerely hope that this will be a first step towards more fundamental steps in our new system. I agree with my colleague Essers. The change in the water tax I will pick out a number of in my consideration has been spicy and has already been the subject of correspondence between the Finance Committee of this Chamber and the Secretary of State. That was on the initiative of Mr Essers, our tax-technical conscience in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u60	Let's make a correction. Mr Reuten was the first to stir it up. We have taken it over gratefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u61	Then I assume, like Treub, there are two sides to it. The tax issue may have been raised by Mr Reuten and Mr Essers may have contributed to its technical aspect and its wording by the committee. It was remarkable in itself that, as a rule, we do not consider retroactivity to be acceptable in tax legislation. The special thing now is that this Tax Plan, with retroactive effect, reverses part of the increase in the water load adopted last year. This increase would start on 1 July 2014 on the basis of the Tax Plan 2014, but it did not take place on the basis of policy considerations. By the way, the state secretary's finely formulated mea culpa on the legislative process has been welcomed by the committee with satisfaction and appreciation. I will perhaps list the answer of the Secretary of State to the committee's last questions at home. However, I would like to mention this. The Tax Collection Act that we adopted earlier and which related to banks and in this Tax Plan when it comes to insurers, provides that the so-called Tier 1 capital under Basel, or similar. the Solvency rules to which the proposed Article 29a of the Corporate Tax Act refers can be treated as debt. My group is following the government's reasoning. Breder is playing the international discussion on the cross-border qualification of financial instruments as debt or equity. That's the discussion about hybrid loans and hybrid capital. The Weeghel Committee, which is one of the committees that has issued reports in recent years, has made recommendations in its report on the tax treatment of debt and equity. The report calls for a more tax-neutral treatment of debt and equity through the introduction of a fictitious deduction for equity in corporate tax. I am aware that this has budgetary implications, which is also one of the reasons why this has never been taken up, and I understand the many priorities in the revision of our tax system, but I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to this issue. I would also ask him, more generally, to what extent the Corporate Tax Act will be reviewed in any other way in the future. That's what I'm talking about. Then the IRS itself. My group has already expressed its appreciation to the Secretary of State for the letter of 19 May. on the Broad agenda of the Tax Administration itself. My group is also pleased with the translation of this agenda into concrete steps and time-frame, with deliverables apologizing for the English term, but it is a term that the Secretary of State must recognize as an old consultant and this progress has been reported in the six-month report new style of early October. The timetable is ambitious, but the urgency is great, and the Secretary of State rightly so has sometimes failed in the past to manage the expectations of the changes that are being implemented. We must bear in mind that even on the road to a simpler system, system changes always lead to complexity in implementation, and the Tax Administration will also have to be operationally "ready" to do so. In the agenda as set out in the letter of 19 May, the Secretary of State identified 4 tracks: 1. reduction of complexity; 2. making work processes robust; 3. objectify output and performance; 4. guarantee in the organization. The last three tracks of tracks 2, 3 and 4 are largely owned by the State Secretary and the Ministry. Complexity reduction, rail 1, is, in my group's view, much more a shared responsibility in the cabinet, with the trade ministers, and with the parliament. In practice, this is an extremely harsh subject, as I mentioned earlier in my speech. Robust handling of the implementation test, which we understand has been upgraded, should also support the Secretary of State in the Cabinet, as regards the preparation and development of legislation and towards Parliament, in particular when it comes to amendments to that legislation. At the beginning of this year, quite early in his period, the Secretary of State rightly convinced the Cabinet that the implementation was technically undesirable for the Tax Administration to introduce a household allowance. The enforcement of legislation is one of the subjects on which this Chamber has some experience. This task shall be referred to in this Chamber in due course. Unfortunately, however, too often we have to note that at least when dealing with the Tax Plan, a collection law, in December, there is simply no or little possibility of realising this task as a Chamber. Could the Secretary of State perhaps give some insight into the development of the execution test new style he has in mind and how this test will be shared in practice with the Second and First Chambers? I shall now make a number of comments on the system. My group is satisfied with the letter published by the Secretary of State with Princess Day, which gives an explicit outline of the content of the letter. I use the term from the letter itself to move towards a future system. Our system is in need of renewal. Everyone agrees on that. I do not entirely agree with Mr Esser's proposal on the ambitions of the cabinet on this point with regard to the choices they wish to make. Everyone also agrees that simplification and better use of our system to stimulate work and make work pay should have a very broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u62	Simplification is one thing. If the spokesperson of the VVD Group is so pleased with this letter, I imagine that the spokesperson of the PvdA Group cannot be pleased. It's two-and-a-half. It's a VVD letter. I understand very well from this Secretary of State. I also understand very well that Mr Bröcker welcomes the content. I'm not. But I'd like to hear if the PvdA group is going to follow this VVD statement. I find that very interesting. I know in advance that this does not deliver on the agreements of the coalition agreement, which is a less uneven distribution of income. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u63	This is going to be a bit of a repeat of moves. We are pleased with the way in which the letter has been set up and the objectives that have been formulated. My group also supports the clear choices and direction for the establishment of a new system. It is a letter from the cabinet and no concrete proposals have yet been made. There are still unbelievable numbers of buttons that will have to be turned later. I find his remark somewhat suggestive. I would like to speak for my colleague, but Mrs Sent will be able to answer that later. I find Mr Reuten's predictive capacity with regard to how this is going to look remarkable. In any case, it is not statistically substantiated. It is clear that there are many sensitivities and conflicting wishes in the broad ideological spectrum of the SP. The letter describes the political dynamics of this process: a system review without reduction of charges is not feasible, but a reduction of charges without a corresponding system revision is a missed opportunity. My group is happy to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u64	I'd like to admit to Senator Bröcker that it was more of a prophecy. However, if I look at the last three years of the programme and its use for my prognosis, in which the upper half of the income distribution has improved, then I can make a prediction about the tax revision.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u65	What is your question, Mr Reuten?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u66	I totally disagree with that remark. If I listen to the internal discussion within my group in the First Chamber and the Group of the House of Representatives and within my party, then let me put it mildly: a somewhat more nuanced picture of the results of recent years. At all events, I do not think that past results are an indication of future results.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u67	Mr Bröcker said a number of words about the letter of the Secretary of State attached to the documents for Prince's Day. He was right to say that I do not want to reduce the burden without an adjustment of the system. What concerns my group, however, and I do not hear that in his speech, is that we are in a bit of a hurry. You are very complimentary, but do you feel that this cabinet is really moving forward with this new Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u68	D66 generally believes that there has been too little haste with the reforms we have carried out in recent years. The major issue of the revision of the tax system is indeed urgent, but once again, you must be realistic. If you look at the political spectrum that we know at the moment and the undoubtedly different perspectives that parties have, not only within the cabinet, but also outside the cabinet, in relation to the system, then I think this approach by the government is very sensible. I do hope, however, that we will be able to implement parts of the future system more quickly. There are, of course, a lot of practical things that we can deal with more quickly. However, I do think it is important that this is actually my next point: that there should be a vision and that it should be supported by parties. Furthermore, there must be decisive action in the implementation of changes in the system for the coming period. Of course, you have to take into account that you have to have proper government periods for that. This period of government shall not exceed two years plus. I therefore believe that there should be consensus on the direction of the system and on elements of the system, and that there should be broad political support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u69	I'll be the last to deny that. I thought I'd listen very carefully. I have just listened to Mr Essers and Mr Reuten. You can value everyone's experience of this debate a little bit. I notice, however, that you say descriptively: this is a nice, good piece. But where would your group like to place accents? What would you like to give to the Secretary of State on the way to such a new plan? That is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u70	I can, of course, mention the well-known points, such as the discussion on lubricating oil for economic growth and reduction of burdens. I have already mentioned, on behalf of my group, my first Tax Plan here, the simplification of VAT. I referred to the example of guinea pig feed three or four years ago as the first high-rate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate ungrate guy. So there are a lot of options. We can also have a discussion within this Chamber about instrumentalism and greening. My party is absolutely not against the policy of greening and to facilitate it. You can also comment on the overall burden and on the European playing field that is important. It is fine to have that kind of reflection here, but I would prefer that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, as in the general financial considerations, should go round the political parties in the House of Representatives and see where the primacy lies. I am also curious to see how the process is going at the moment and how we can find the intended support for the Secretary of State. I have already gone through some of my further text.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u71	I would like to continue on this point. The reform of the system is, of course, about the right balance between speed and care. Does Mr Bröcker, taking into account everything, consider that the reform of the system should, in principle, continue to take place in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u72	That seems to me to be out of the question. I don't expect you to get such a major surgery when you look at the whole palette, i.e. the surcharges, the simplifications and all the changes. However, I would like the Secretary of State to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u73	I think it would be a good idea to highlight that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u74	I want to close this block with international developments. International taxation and the relationship with the Netherlands have given rise to the necessary publicity and discussion in parliament. The Cabinet's letter explicitly refers to the "defense" of our locational climate. This includes tax infrastructure, which facilitates international cooperation and, above all, avoids double taxation. The fact that the Netherlands has, among other things, a participation exemption and has negotiated a good network of treaties has long contributed to this. The Secretary of State rightly notes that our position is not automatic and is under great pressure. Other countries within the EU have copied elements of our instruments, such as Great Britain. In the reply, the Secretary of State outlines the Dutch approach to preventing improper international use of our tax infrastructure and in particular of our treaty network. The use of this infrastructure for non-material activities can indeed lead to a deterioration in the position of the Netherlands for genuine international activities and activities organised from the Netherlands. We discussed this subject in this Chamber with the predecessor of this Secretary of State in the debate on Dutch treaty policy. My group supports the efforts of this Secretary of State to deploy multilaterally at EU and OECD level to address improper use by international companies. This includes transparency, information exchange and cooperation with other tax administrations. That must also be the commitment of the Netherlands in the EU. My group supports policies to address inappropriate use of tax treaties, regardless of how "actually" is defined. That is always the harsh element in the matter. Let me make a few comments on this and ask the Secretary of State some questions. First of all, we discussed developing countries with which tax treaties have been concluded in this Chamber. We understand that the Netherlands has offered those countries to renegotiate, where necessary, to tighten up anti-abuse provisions. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the countries concerned have responded to this and where the Netherlands is in it? In my group's view, it is clear that the negotiating position of the Netherlands in tax treaties has weakened in recent years. Our treaties contain anti-abuse provisions which sometimes go further or are more general than those which the source country concerned has negotiated with the country with which we have concluded a tax treaty, often with larger countries, such as the United Kingdom. Does the Secretary of State share this observation? The international financial crisis is at risk of countries or blocks of countries, in particular the larger ones, becoming protectionist with regard to their own industry, export or monetary policy. Increasing or protecting tax revenues is also a logical objective, given the pressure on public finances everywhere and in particular on the distribution of tax burdens. We are concerned that source countries should take unilateral fiscal measures in anticipation of the outcome of the G20, OECD or EU consultations. We also see combinations of opportunities between larger EU countries to push things that are not without self-interest and not necessarily in the interests of smaller countries. How does the Secretary of State view the negotiating position of the Netherlands in particular in the EU force field? Over the last few weeks, the necessary commotion has arisen about Mr Essers, who has already pointed this out, according to the legitimate agreements that multinationals have made with national authorities in the EU and, no doubt, outside the EU. The reply also goes into this, as well as an extensive report by the General Court which describes the situation for the Netherlands in detail. I have never seen such a detailed report from the Court of Auditors. I cannot escape the impression that, as part of international tax planning by internationally operating companies, differences between tax regimes in different countries are being addressed. In this context, it is not surprising that in the EU the subject of harmonisation of corporate tax bases is clearly revisited. My group is not opposed to this discussion. Can the Secretary of State state state what the cabinet is like in this discussion? If I have a few more minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u75	You have two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u76	I would like to comment on Mr Essers' suggestion on the rule-making policy. For many years, this has been a key issue of Dutch tax establishment policy, which has generally worked extremely well. Many Cabinets have organised this in a well coordinated way within the Netherlands. The report of the General Court also refers to the ruling practice and to what is involved and contains concrete recommendations which, we understand, have largely been adopted by the Secretary of State. My group supports that. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Now, however, a discussion is being held on the social interest in the European Parliament, of course, transparency and, in obtaining access rights by a small committee, a committee-secret committee in the European Parliament to look at specific rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u77	I want to replace the term "committee-secret" immediately. If there's anything intransparent now, it's when you talk about possibilities or suspicions of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u78	It is a confidential committee that should be given the right of access in all confidence to agreements made in individual cases. I would like to correct that, but the term had already been launched and I took a break. Let me say first of all that my group considers it extremely important that we understand both within and outside the parliament what the ruling policy in the Netherlands is about. The report of the General Court is in fact a first step through the inventory. We must also have full transparency about the government's commitment to EU and OECD discussions. I'm really wondering if it makes any sense. I agree with what my colleague Van Boxtel said about putting a small tax committee above it. I leave it in the middle whether it should come from the First or Second Chamber........................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't know if this is gonna happen afterwards or in advance, but I'm wondering if this makes any sense. Information exchange is currently taking place with treaty countries and generally includes anti-abuse provisions. Treaty countries will take positions on abuse or non-abuse. Brussels explicitly defends the entire state aid dossier and is currently putting it into practice, where necessary, as it sees fit. There are also opportunities for appeal through the European Court of Justice. I wonder what it adds, especially the "what then" question. Suppose there is a difference of opinion within such a committee, I do not rule that out at all whether or not it is desirable that a particular agreement with a particular company has been made within the ruling policy. What happens then? This is something I would like to make very explicit. The Secretary of State will undoubtedly respond to this and indicate the advantages and disadvantages of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u79	Let me come back to what Mr Bröcker said a little earlier. I've been chewing on that for a while. I heard him say that it was about European harmonization of corporate tax bases, and that this is not something that his group does not reject. I've been chewing on this for a while and couldn't figure out whether this is a yes or a no. Could Mr Bröcker clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u80	This is a subject that has been regularly brought in over time, even by rulers of my house. I would point out that basic harmonisation is a relevant issue within the EU, even if you look at the current issue of international tax planning. I have said that my group is open to this and that we recognize to some extent the logic of this. The question is just what kind of trajectory you're going to go on in there. That's where my concern keeps coming back. How does the Netherlands operate within the EU? In my view, this was perhaps included in the debate last year by Mr Essers in the debate on treaty policy too. We are a small country together with a large number of countries. We will have to be very aware that in the achievements we have in the Netherlands these are particularly developed for the international business community in the Netherlands over many years, a lot of aspects for which we will eventually have to be careful. However, the discussion will take place within the EU at some point. I am referring, among other things, to the exemption from participation and to tax treaties, which will, of course, include anti-abuse provisions and which may also require checks and balances to be able to challenge decisions taken by a source country in order to apply or not to apply a treaty, and to prevent arbitrariness. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to this point. I await with interest the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. I do not think we can dwell enough on the fact that all government expenditure must first be earned. Taxation of these earnings is a necessary evil to finance public expenditure. We discussed the budget a few weeks ago, and we have noticed the government's money bounce in particular. So today we are discussing the Tax Plan, in which we see how we are going to finance these many billions of euros in grants and waste. This happens every year by further tightening up the already refined tax instruments. It will be clear that this is not easy. The cabinet prefers to allow this to happen in such a way that the tortured citizen does not just rise up. Sometimes that goes wrong, like two years ago with the income-related health insurance, and then the screws have to be loosened just a little bit. Once the citizen has regained consciousness, the post-levy comes and the screws are put back on. Some people had already forgotten that appointment from 2012, when the income-dependent premium turned out to be a bit too heavy and had to replace it. The general tax rebate became income-dependent. That is what we are facing this year and next year. And yes, it's exactly the hardworking Henk and Ingrid who get the biggest after-tax: the people who work the hardest, work hard for their company or organization and have to work overtime, but also the people in care who run irregular shifts and the people in shiftwork who make extra hours. They all get that post-levy the hardest on their plate. Another example is the load on tap water. The scheme was so complex and devastating for many companies that it was not continued at the last minute. Fortunately, of course, but immediately new charges were sought instead of cuts. At the pleasure of the Netherlands on the left, the waste tax will reappear again, which has been repaired at the last minute with a levy on the waste exported. Someone had to sneak into his car and try to escape abroad with garbage! With some regularity, that complexity of the system comes back around the corner. Great gestures then explain that taxes, for example on labour, should be reduced and that it should be simpler. We wholeheartedly agree with these two points, let us be clear. Only we seem to be the only party to draw the insurmountable conclusion that this can only be done by cutting at least as hard into expenditure that does not affect the economy. I am talking about the 800 million for asylum seekers, who take the place of our elderly people in their homes, the 3.5 billion for development aid, which goes into bottomless wells, the 9 billion we spend on the EU and the billions of other subsidies that only lead to false competition, inefficiency or waste. Normally, all these problems will only be resolved at election meetings, as the Prime Minister recently announced tax cuts after the elections. It was still lacking in the prospect of a referendum on the EU after the elections. Can the Secretary of State promise that in the coming simplification the burden will really be reduced and that we will not get a waterbed construction, so that if pressure goes down somewhere, it will go up elsewhere? I am asking this very strongly because, with almost every measure taken by the cabinet to do something about the tax burden, you will see that there is an increase elsewhere. Preferably this increase is then disguised by making it all even more complicated. On balance, the overall effect is becoming heavier and more complicated taxes. Let me give you the example of the measures on car taxes. Last year I indicated that a hybrid car, like a Toyota Prius, consumes just as much energy per kilometer directly and indirectly, and thus as much C0 emissions, as any other car. However, the Prius was given extra tax incentives, just like all the other quasi-sustainable forms of energy. In fact, nothing has changed in that respect. Eventually, not a net reduction in C0 emissions is stimulated, but technological developments, as they are undoubtedly incorporated in the Prius, abroad. The same applies to all those solar cells, which also come from abroad, in this case China. All this is possible at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer. In addition to the 3.5 billion development aid, this government has launched a fiscal stimulus programme to stimulate technology development abroad at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u82	Everyone has the right, of course, to put their finger on desirable or undesirable developments in their own way. What I find difficult about these points, regardless of the technical inconvenience in implementation or enforcement, is that these are the first measures to begin the sustainability and greening of our tax system. It is well known that Mr Van Strien's party does not find all this interesting. However, I would like to ask him whether he will continue to reject all this in the same way, even if some of the development is carried out abroad but benefits our society and provides sustainable traffic and transport in the longer term. Because that would really surprise me. This is also very important for Henk and Ingrid, and probably especially for their children.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u83	I am not yet concerned about whether or not to promote sustainability. I am concerned that, assuming that sustainability is the goal, a means is chosen that will certainly not bring this goal any closer. For example, the tax on cars might as well have depended on the length of the shoelace of the driver. That would have had exactly the same effect on CO emissions. That's all I care about. Because green had to be subsidised if necessary, taxes had to be raised elsewhere. Instead of considering spending reduction, a bizarre political balancing act is taking place on how to maximize the tax burden. Part of this is a hilarious discussion about how semi-electric cars are used. I'd like to repeat that. We have 0 grams of CO emissions, 5 grams of CO emissions, 50 grams of CO emissions, 80 grams of CO emissions and 106 grams of CO emissions. At all borders there are different rates for addition. And that while those cars, directly and indirectly energy consumption together, have, on balance, almost the same CO consumption. The only differences between cars are roughly determined by the size of the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u84	In itself, Mr Van Strien has a point when he says that this is vulnerable, because it is not yet proven whether more or less CO is being consumed. However, it is also about the use of fuel. He's completely ignoring that while we're exhausting the Earth's natural excipients. If you're going to a hybrid or an electric motor, you're going to need less gasoline or diesel. That must be included in the recital. It's not just about CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u85	Electric, semi-electric, petrol or whatever, it doesn't matter at all for CO emissions in practice. That electricity is also generated by hydrocarbons. It is something else if the government said: we are going to electrify our car park and at the same time generate our electricity with nuclear power. Then you have a point. That will not happen, however. That's not the point. At present, this electricity is produced in power plants with the same efficiency. That's where waste heat simply goes into the air as low-grade waste heat. My question to the Secretary of State in this regard is whether he agrees with me that this whole addition circus serves exclusively to please the Netherlands on the left. Now we also have the discussion as to whether these cars are sufficiently electric. Or do they just make most of the miles on conventional fuels? The consequences can be guessed. A 1984-type check on tank passes seems to be the solution for some. The only reason you would want electric and semi-electric cars is, I think, to become more independent of oil. That seems to me to be a valid argument. However, there are many other solutions, which are not being used at all at the moment. If this cabinet reaches the next Prinsjesdag, I would therefore ask the Secretary of State, preferably in consultation with TNO, to put on paper what he wants with the Dutch fleet, in order to be able to refrain as soon as possible from magicalizing with tax rates on cars. A wise man doesn't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u86	I have a comment, which I might also be able to put as a question. Mr Van Strien spoke about the fact that all this was conceived for the Netherlands on the left. I do not want to end up in a political discussion here. However, I must say that, when the Secretary of State intended to make some adjustments to that rule, the Netherlands on the right then rebelled. So I wonder to what extent the words 'left' and 'right' in the car file are entirely relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u87	I have used the terminology of the left and right for quasi-environmental friendliness, or let it weigh less on the environmental aspect. In those terms, I used left and right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u88	I do not want to dwell too long on this point, but I have to say that the Netherlands on the right got quite excited when adjustments were made to the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u89	I can very well imagine that you are revolting at adjustments to regulations that are simply incomprehensible. I have just indicated that the CO consumption of a car is completely independent of the fuel used in it. 0 grams of CO consumption simply doesn't exist. Therefore, I can't imagine that you're going to make the amount of tax on adding a car dependent on those kinds of categories. It's just a nonsensical system. For the government's purpose, it will not save an inch at all. What we are seeing now is that the system is failing and, in the opinion of the Treasury, it must be constantly repaired. Henk and Ingrid, hardworking Dutch people such as representatives with a thrifty middle classer, are finally screwed. They will pay as much as €1,000 more: not 14%, not 20%, but 21% addition. Meanwhile, the purchase tax for the slightly larger car also goes up naturally. Finally, I would like to touch on a point that we discussed in detail last year's financial considerations and tax plan. I would like to repeat briefly what my group put forward at the time. The combination of VAT burdens, and excise duties on fuels, tobacco and soft drinks, they also came back in Mr Reuten's tables, albeit a bit hidden, making total consumption shrink, and hence national income. This causes an extra run abroad in the border region. We are going to refuel in the border regions abroad and we are going to shop there at the same time. The road leakage effects, in particular caused by the combination or stacking effect of all those loads together, are not taken into account. I would once again urge the Secretary of State to study these effects at least once and preferably draw conclusions from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. The 2015 Tax Plan includes the abolition of the elderly allowance in box 3 and the reduction of the elderly discount. Both measures start on 1 January 2016. The Secretary of State considers that the abolition of the elderly allowance puts older people in the same position as other taxpayers. Was it not, however, the case that this old-age allowance was introduced in 2001 to compensate for the new capital efficiency levy, which increased the burden especially for the low-income elderly who fall into the first two discs? Does the Secretary of State recognise that the elderly discount was also intended as compensation for the freezing of the AOW in 1994, the fiscal purchasing power measure? Both measures had been introduced as compensation for the disadvantages experienced by the elderly by the tax measures. That's what the Secretary of State wants to undo now. In our view, this is precisely the opposite of what the Secretary of State claims. The abolition of the elderly's allowance and the reduction of the elderly's discount once again place the elderly in an unequal position. This is on top of the reduction in pensions, the non-indexation of pensions in recent years, and the prospect that this will not happen in the next ten years. Both measures will once again have a significant impact on the purchasing power of older people, which has already fallen considerably behind. Nor do we understand the fact that two measures are already being included in a tax plan for 2015, while the measures will only start in 2016. It seems that the elderly are already being told in advance that in the near future they can expect nothing but a fall in purchasing power from the cabinet. If the Secretary of State continues these measures, which affect the elderly, with the support of the SGP, Christian Union and D66 support forces, then we ask for a commitment that this will be discussed again after Princess Day 2015, if the purchasing power figures for 2016 are clear. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this request. Also next year, excise duties on fuels will increase. The previous speaker explained this in detail. We have been struck by the fact that hard-working gas pump holders in border areas who have been forced to go to court by government policy beyond their fault to deal with their families and have often had to fire staff. We saw the elderly family who successfully went to court because the government had wrongly taken care of the family. There may also be processes on non-compliance with pension obligations. It seems to become a habit for citizens who are no longer heard by The Hague to turn to the courts. Our question to the Secretary of State is how much is saved in the 2015 budget if the announced increase in excise duty for the coming year would not continue, taking into account a likely increase in turnover in border areas. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider such a gesture, which, in our view, is very fair? Although the Secretary of State calls the tax review urgent in all kinds of documents, nothing has yet come out of his hand that looks like a beginning. Tax relief is being preached everywhere, and Prime Minister Rutte has also made his annual commitment to tax reduction. We assume that this was done in consultation with the State Secretary of Finance. That is why we are asking whether the Secretary of State can lift a little bit of the veil and say a little more about the tax reduction. Much more concrete and therefore more threatening is the notice on page 35 of the reply that an investigation is being carried out into the possibilities of extending the municipal tax area. This can mean nothing but more revenue for the government and more taxes for the citizens. We ask the Secretary of State for two things: is this conclusion correct and what possibilities should one think of when municipal taxes increase? Is it not strange that the government does not yet have any concrete plans to reduce taxes, but that it is already considering how the possibilities for municipal taxation can be extended, thereby increasing taxation? Another point that is rather in the interest of these days is the expiry of parents' ability to give their children up to €100,000 tax-free, an idea that 50PLUS has launched in the House of Representatives. It was a measure that taught us that the knife could cut on three sides. We would have liked it to apply for the year 2015. However, the cabinet rejected such a proposal in the Lower House, so we do not want to go back to it. What is happening is that many people who still wanted to make use of the scheme face practical problems. The notaries' dome Network Notaries has found that banks work too slowly and customers still run the risk of having to pay donation tax because the transactions are not completed by 31 December. Banks say that they cannot guarantee a timely conclusion after 15 December, which is today. That comes for people who for financial reasons wanted to wait until the last time as a surprise and the December month is not the best month with the holidays around Christmas either. In view of the fact that the extension of the 2015 measure is not possible, we ask the State Secretary whether he is prepared to extend the deadline until 31 January 2015. Over the past few years, government policy has been aimed at increasing the return of older people in particular. The 2015 Tax Plan does not change that. For the year 2016, a firm shovel will be added. It is to be hoped that it will not come to that and that the voters will make a clear statement on 18 March, so that Prime Minister Rutte will not be able to live up to his promise to sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u91	Mr. Chairman. Not only in this house, but also outside, the debate on taxes is in full swing. The subject raises emotions across society about justice and solidarity. The letter on the revision of the tax system gave rise to the debate. Due to the arrival of Piketty, the controversial tax structure of Starbucks and the business of car taxes, the discussion of the tax system spread across the country. In the meantime, almost all taxes are under a magnifying glass, including in the media. In addition, the announced post-taxation of the Tax Administration keeps the moods occupied. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that all adjustments for 2015 have been processed on time? Despite the extensive social debate, we are discussing today the thinnest tax plan for years. The coalition parties did not agree on major reforms last summer, which means that there is now a limited number of measures. That is why my contribution will focus not only on what is in the bill, but also on things that are not in it. Recently, I attended an international conference on taxation with Mr Essers of the CDA in London. That was where the impact of globalisation on national tax legislation was central. In this context, I first look at the Dutch location climate in an international context. Then I will put a number of questions to the Secretary of State about the announced tax review. Finally, I will go into more detail about an important, hopefully shared, ambition of my group to strive for a more sustainable economy. The Netherlands has a favourable tax regime for large companies and multinationals. Source taxes, such as dividends, royalties and interest rates, are relatively low here. In addition, companies can obtain advance certainty on the tax payable by them through rulings. In addition, the Netherlands has a huge number of tax treaties with other countries, 94 to be precise, so that companies can keep the tax on profits from holdings as low as possible. All in all, these schemes ensure that companies like to settle in the Netherlands. The research Ranking the Stars of the CPB even shows that the Netherlands is number one in the world, when it comes to attracting foreign investment. Above China and the United States, but also over countries such as Great Britain, Ireland and Luxembourg. Those same international money flows are also quickly leaving the country. This shows that the Netherlands is also a distribution country in the financial field. There is, of course, a difference: the port of Rotterdam and the airport of Schiphol have demonstrated a lot of employment and economic growth in the Netherlands, while the economic effects of financial transit are more difficult to measure. This is due, among other things, to the huge variety of regulations and companies, but also to a lack of transparency. Both the Examination Office SEO and the General Court therefore advocate greater openness to tax deals. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for promoting this transparency at national level? My group also lacks in this debate the question of what the Dutch tax practice means for developing countries, where the production of many multinationals takes place. Is it true that developing countries miss revenue from tax avoidance via the Netherlands? My group, like Mr Essers and Mr Bröcker, has a few specific questions concerning the conditions for a taxruling, the so-called substance requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u92	If you look at the contribution to GDP, in terms of exports, it is not agriculture or transport that is at the top of the list, but financial services.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u93	I would like to take up the debate with Mr Reuten on the fact that the Netherlands has unfortunately lost a lot of manufacturing industry and that our country is completely dependent on services. That is a very different debate when it comes to economic matters and whether or not industrial policy. In itself, there is nothing wrong with very good financial services. The aim of the questions I ask is as much transparency as possible. That will become clear in a moment. At the same time, in plain Dutch, we should not become crazy Henkie who is more transparent than anyone else, while all kinds of others take the spoils. I've come to the substance requirements. These requirements were tightened last year as a result of the SEO report. However, the General Court concludes that "it is generally easy to meet the substance requirements by using a trust office." My group wonders why this is still so simple. What was the outcome of last year's measures? Would a further increase in these requirements be detrimental to the locational climate in the Netherlands? Unilateral measures do not eliminate differences between national tax rules. For this reason, there has been talk at OECD level of combating tax avoidance for some time now. The Netherlands is not only active in this, but is even leading the way, according to the Secretary of State. How does the Secretary of State react to reports, including the NRC, that the Netherlands "would oppose" the OECD when it comes to harmonising international tax policy? And how does the Secretary of State respond to the statement that this "resistance" is a nice marketing for the location policy of foreign companies in the Netherlands? My group is also interested in the difference between the interests of large and small countries within the OECD. I would ask you to go into this in detail once again, also in the light of Mr Essers' questions and Mr Bröcker's comment. It can already be seen from my speech that I am not in favour of participating, so to speak, in a political debate prior to a ruling. However, I would like to have more transparency about the playing field in which Finance operates, so that you can let go of your test when you read things in the newspaper. I'm coming to the tax review. I look back at the last time that the tax system has been substantially revised. That was 2001. At that time we paid with the guilder, the internet was in its infancy and permanent jobs were the norm. Moreover, we had a long period of economic growth. In this context, we have shaped the tax system. Over the past thirteen years, the Netherlands has become one of the frontrunners in digital payments, the retirement age has finally increased after a long debate and we have got 800,000zzp'ers in our midst. We are still struggling with the effects of the euro crisis and it is not certain how the Dutch economy will develop in the future, despite the first optimistic reports. The tax review of 13 years ago has been fulfilled for a long time, but the question is whether the system is still stable against the developments of today, in this society. In addition, the introduction of numerous income-dependent schemes has made the tax system extremely complex. The Secretary of State writes in his letter that the Tax Administration has "the most advanced premium factory in the world." In addition to the surcharges, there are still numerous tax reductions, where the Tax Administration has to determine whether or not people are eligible. A simplification of this system would be appropriate. It benefits the feasibility and there is broad support for it. Many also agree that the burden on labour, both on the employer and on the employee side, should be reduced if we are to remain competitive at international level. As a result of the crisis, necessary but burdensome measures have been taken on both sides. Now that the economy is carefully climbing out of the valley, employers and workers must see this reflected in a reduction in the tax burden. This not only leads to short-term job growth, but it is also essential for the long-term competitiveness of the Dutch labour market. The Netherlands has so far held a strong position in the top ten of the most competitive economies, but it must also retain this position. High labour costs could put that position at risk. The Tax Letter also mentions simplification and reduction of charges as starting points for the system review. In this connection, the Secretary of State notes that the review is urgent, because "our tax system is highly disruptive and it costs jobs and economic growth." In this light, my group is difficult to place the cabinet's waiting attitude. It seemed like a one-two from Mr Ester and me, but that was not the intention when I asked about Mr Bröcker's group's ambitions. Mr Ester then asked: do you also expect it to happen during this cabinet period? The answer to that was no. I would also like to put that question to the Secretary of State. Are we really going to take more than two years and not reform for another three years? Or is this cabinet's ambition to bring it forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u94	One-two gets you...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u95	No, I said it looked like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u96	That is also fine, but with one-two you also get political support and capacity. So there's nothing wrong with that. But for the sake of correction, I was asked whether the whole system review would be completed within two years. I have been a little cautious about that, because it is a rather major project. I hope that the cabinet, with the support of other parties, will be able to take its first steps as soon as possible. I'm gonna say this for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u97	I am pleased that Mr Bröcker has made this a point, and I would like to put that question directly to the cabinet and the Secretary of State. What's his expectation? I have just read out the sentence that our tax system is highly disruptive, which costs jobs and economic growth. I can't quite understand in that light that if the potential effects are so positive and the urgency is so high, you take a very long time. Why does the Cabinet want to wait for windfalls first? You can say: there are some windfalls coming, perhaps on the side of social affairs, but we don't know if they are structural. The cabinet really needs to think through, including, for example, limiting public expenditure to compensate for the income effects. The increase in collective spending, although flattened by government policy, is continuing. In the context of sound public finances, it would therefore be good to continue looking for ways of reducing expenditure in the event of a lack of windfall in the coming years. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the question is to what extent the financing of the tax review is a problem. This does not alter the fact that proper preparation must be made for the revision. As a first step, the cabinet has formulated a number of directions in the Tax Letter. As the Secretary of State is used to, we like to think along, but on a number of points we expect more clarity from the cabinet. First of all, the cabinet talks about a shift from labour to a higher tax on consumption. The cabinet follows several recommendations, including those of the Van Dijkhuizen Commission. My group is curious as to how the Secretary of State intends to organise this transition. For example, would the cabinet like to increase the lowest VAT rate? Or does the cabinet want to move products from the lowest category to the highest category, in other words, the VAT rate for rabbit feed to the level of that for guinea pig feed? Is the introduction of a uniform VAT rate, which, according to the CPB, yields prosperity gains, also an option? What should the proceeds of a higher turnover tax be? My group would like the cabinet to take the lead in making these choices. Secondly, the cabinet has the ambition to simplify complex income-dependent schemes. I note from an Actal report that we have 27 income-dependent schemes in the Netherlands. Not only the Tax Administration has difficulty in processing this large number of regulations. Because of the complicated puzzle, many Dutch don't know exactly what they're up to. As a result, the Tax Administration has also experienced many ICT problems. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State in this debate about the current state of play on ICT issues, including within the Tax Administration. In the short term, the cabinet will take measures regarding the childcare allowance and the care allowance. What other income-related schemes, according to the Secretary of State, are urgently needed to simplify or possibly abolish them? Does the Secretary of State intend to merge a number of regulations? Thirdly, the Secretary of State wants alternatives to the existing capital efficiency levy to be examined. The aim of this research is to arrive at a tax that is seen by taxpayers as more equitable. Why is a higher return on capital taxes not included in the objectives of this study? If the Secretary of State considers that necessary or not, I ask neutrally. The Tax Letter also states: "From the OECD Tax Policy Study, some (but not all) taxes on assets and wealth income appear to be relatively undisrupting." What taxes is this? Does this observation also apply to the Netherlands? Is the "degree of disturbance" included in the investigation? Another challenge of our time is to define the digital economy and digital economic activities well. This also came out strongly at the conference which Mr Essers and I attended in London. In the letter, the Secretary of State pays little attention to this digitisation. My group believes that it is important to include these developments in the revision of the tax system. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? If not, why not? My next point is sustainability. I have listened with pleasure to Mr Van Strien, because he is right to point the finger at the sense and nonsense of all kinds of super-fine arrangements. He may also ask whether they do something about CO emissions. Fortunately, in his own speech later, the point was that we are talking about more targets than just CO emissions, and that it is also about how long we will continue to use natural additives. We really think that sustainability is an important point in the tax review. The transformation towards a more sustainable economy is far too slow in the Netherlands. Last week, Trouw reported that the Netherlands fell to the last place on the annual climate ranking list in relation to all EU countries. Worldwide, the Netherlands is in the 42nd place, among countries such as Belarus, Algeria and Poland. You don't believe your eyes, and your ears certainly don't. The Energy Policy Report of EIA countries, of the International Energy Agency in early 2014, shows that the Netherlands, compared to the 27 other rich countries, has one of the most fossil-based economies. In other words, we are very far behind in the Netherlands in terms of sustainability. At the same time, the Netherlands is in the European top three in terms of environmental taxes. It is difficult for my group to reconcile these figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u98	Could that have something to do with our natural condition? If you live in Norway, the electricity from white hydro power can be obtained anywhere, wherever you are. You're only sitting there with a few million people. Besides, they also have oil there. We don't have that kind of opportunity. If you live in central France, you have 15 meters of tidal difference. In the Netherlands that is 2.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u99	Yes, but we have reacted very slowly to all these innovative developments in the Netherlands, or we have seen them too late as an opportunity to develop them. Do you know how long our coastline is? It's a couple hundred kilometers long. We could also turn that 2.5 metres into a lot of energy. There is now a lot of thinking about energy from water. Around Eindhoven are now the most innovative solar energy projects going on, for example with solar cells in the asphalt. That's what the whole world is looking at and the question is: when are we actually going to implement it ourselves in the Netherlands? For me, these are real questions that do not arise from some kind of left-wing or right-wing embodiment or belief in all kinds of environmental measures. It's a need felt in me. Our neighbour Germany just passes us three times in the Energy Week. It really is a fact, and we get small financial incentives for a few solar panels. If the whole of the Netherlands wants to participate, the scheme is already full and needs to be adjusted three times. My concern is therefore mainly in the Echternach procession that we are going through on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u100	It is not a question of keeping us at the forefront of technology. That's not the point. The point is that we must not apply these new technologies until it is economically viable. Before this is the case, we only have to deal with this at the research stage and not put Dutch taxpayers in trouble for hundreds of millions. Does Mr Van Boxtel agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u101	I'm a little out of school looking beyond just tomorrow. Everyone, friend and enemy, and even the biggest environmental skeptics, agree that we are really dealing with exhaustion of natural additives and major climate changes. In its history, our country has grown up with water control and waterworks, even after a disaster. We are going to experience the consequences on these kinds of files on all sides. I call eroding mountains in Central Europe, which cause water pollution by rivers, and a sea level that no one disputes is going to rise in centimeters per decade. The same applies in the field of energy. Our own gas supply is running out. We have to import it. What do we make for success and at what rate? And I'm really not the only one. Perhaps Mr Van Strien recently saw The Back of the Right, a television discussion programme led by Marcel van Dam. Everyone who sat there at the table, whether on the right or on the left, said: we are too slow in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u102	Finally, Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u103	I know this is my last chance, Mr President, but I would like to touch on that last point made by Mr Van Boxtel. If we use new technologies and know that they cost a lot of money, namely tens of millions, is Mr Van Boxtel prepared to do so? For example, to submit a referendum to the people? Do you want to pay $50 million to live off wind energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u104	You know, my group is very much in favour of a corrective legislative referendum and not just for referenda. Because you can't do that to people. Then they often have the facts and the figures and everything else behind them not on the retina. I am in favour of this becoming a much broader and more urgent social debate. I note that we are moving too slowly towards the necessary changes that this country needs to go through. Could that cost you? Yes. In my speech on the Tax Plan, you will actually have two top priorities in the review of the tax system. These are alleviation of the burden on labour and intensively pursue innovation after making our economy more sustainable. That is not a believer story; that is really felt urgency from the changes that are taking place in society. I sometimes think about my children, too, and hopefully you think about Henk and Ingrid's. We will be asked these questions with retroactive effect. My question to the Secretary of State was thus the following. We're in the top three in terms of environmental taxes, but we're in the 42nd place on the climate ranking list, so far behind. How's that rhyme? Is it true that the use of fossil fuels as a result of tax policy still offers advantages over alternative energy sources such as sun, wind, biomass and water? If that is the case, does the Secretary of State share the urgency to change this quickly, given the delay we have? Fortunately, the cabinet is prepared to "support green growth ambitions further fiscally." Could the Secretary of State indicate what measures these are? How, for example, does the government intend to limit the use of fossil fuels? This issue has also been discussed in the written preparation. We thank the Secretary of State and his officials for their prompt response. However, my group still has questions about energy and waste taxation within this legislative proposal. The cabinet wants to move the energy tax obligation from the connection to the supply. My group has heard signs from the sector that the definition of'supply' is unclear. The definition of that concept is not clearly described in Dutch law, unlike in European directives. In response to our question as to why the cabinet is not in line with the European definition, the Secretary of State states that uncertainty could arise as to the precise definition of tax liability. As far as my group is concerned, this is a reverse argument. Can the Secretary of State clarify this issue in this debate? New in this Tax Plan is that the rental sector is now also eligible for an exemption from energy taxation in the case of self-generation of renewable energy. At first sight a favourable arrangement which many landlords can use, but the table of budgetary effects of the Tax Plan itself states that in the coming years 3 million, 4 million, 7 million and 14 million respectively are reserved for this exemption. Can the Secretary of State explain why this measure requires such a small investment? Who will benefit from this exemption in practice? Are these the housing corporations in particular or private landlords? The introduction of the waste tax is another measure in favour of further greening. In principle, we support that line of government. However, in my group's view, the tax rate chosen is low. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the shift from incineration and landfill of waste to recycling takes place more quickly at a higher rate? If so, why doesn't the cabinet choose to do so? I'm rounding up. My group is anxiously awaiting the government's plans for the tax review. In view of the great urgency, we sincerely hope that the cabinet will come forward with concrete proposals in the short term. After all, "whoever wants to fix the roof when the sun shines must prepare the remodeling plans before the sun shines." Last week, the CPB predicted that the sun, helped by the price of oil and the price of the euro, might break a bit next year. Let us hope, not just for the tax reform, that this will indeed be the case. The European Presidency of the Netherlands is also coming. The cabinet wants to put sustainability in Europe high on the agenda. Before then, the Netherlands must set an example at national level. The cabinet must now really set the 'Energy Week' in motion, as it is called in Germany. Not only with long-term plans, but also with short-term measures. D66 is always curious about the future, but a future that comes within reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u105	Mr Van Boxtel spoke about 'tax reform urgent', 'a waiting-and-see attitude of the cabinet difficult to place', 'we are waiting with tension for cabinet plans on this point' and 'in view of the urgent need for concrete proposals in the short term'. That's what we've been hearing in the Second and First Chambers for a while. That is why I have a question for Mr Van Boxtel. Because I think it's quite noncommittal. What is a short term given the great urgency? Is that April 1st? Is that six months? Let D66 say in concrete terms what the short term is.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u106	I will say that in a very specific way. I still understand that this cabinet first wrote that general letter. By the way, there was also a change of secretary of state. So I'd like to take that into account. However, I would also like to see a trajectory and an implementation plan showing the ambition of this cabinet. Before we reach the end of our term, we want that plan done and filed. And I miss that. I just really want that ambition to come up with a plan within this cabinet period. To the question whether I expect that to happen in 2017, my answer is: well, we still have to hear it from the Secretary of State but my suspicion is "no." And I'm not okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u107	But what does "not good" mean? You know the parliamentary procedure better than anyone. If you want it to be completed within this time limit, then my question is when will these plans be in place, when will they be in the Council of State and when will the procedure come into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u108	I would think that, on the way to the General Reviews for the coming year, a new Tax Letter should come up with a plan, with an outline of how the Cabinet will do it. That is what I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. Is he really coming with an effect in September? We have been waiting a year and a half for the response to the Van Dijkhuizen Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u109	So the plans have to be there for Prince's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u110	Yes, that was my final remark. I would find that very ambitious, but also good.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. My first reaction after reading the 2015 Tax Plan was: "little mints." A relatively bare list of the main fiscal measures and changes for next year. Little big thoughts and little fiscal fireworks. A little boring, actually. My second reaction was a little more nuanced. After all, it may well be that the fiscal impact of the government's reform plans has been invested in the previous tax plans, that the present plan is a successful result of the tax simplification policy, or that the fiscal ambitions for 2015 are more modest, that more is delegated to next year's Tax Collection Act, or that Parliament has been more reluctant in the tax amendment of planned government policies. These are already five alternative explanations that are presented with further reflection. Can the Secretary of State indicate which explanation or combination of these seems most plausible to him? Has it been a somewhat sober nature of the Tax Plan 2015, the first plan under his direction, a deliberate choice? The painful post-tax that some five to six million Dutch people will be able to expect next spring has been discussed extensively on the other side of the Binnenhof and in the media. We do not need to discuss this. However, the Christian Union Group of the Secretary of State wants to hear what learning experiences he has drawn from this and what measures are being taken within the Tax Administration to prevent this happening in the future. This kind of thing, whatever the cause, is certainly not good for the fiscal support of the population. My group is pleased that there is a reduction of some EUR 350 million compared to the coalition agreement. The story is better in balance. My group also welcomes the reduction in the tax on labour of EUR 1 billion. However, with other groups, we see this as a beginning of a much deeper process. That is what we are going to talk about in detail in the revision of the system. At the end of my speech, I will also consider it. My group is also well aware of the proposed housing market measures. This concerns the extension of the deduction of mortgage interest on residual debts to 15 years, the extension of the term of the mortgage interest deduction from two to three years for a property for sale and the re-existence of the interest deduction after the rental of a former home. Together with the extension of a six-month reduced VAT rate for rehabilitation and renovation, this package of measures is a good signal for further smoothing the housing market. However, my group has the question of whether this six months has been poured into concrete. This is a measure which provides excellent services to both the housing market and the construction sector. The Christian Union Group wants to encourage the cabinet to extend this reduced VAT rate to 2015 as a whole. That would certainly be a powerful way of working. Does the Secretary of State also want to be tough on this? Let me now turn to four more specific topics. Innovative entrepreneurship will only become more important in the coming years. Knowledge plays a crucial role in this. A vibrant start-up culture is indispensable for this. Innovative high-tech start-ups must ensure the necessary innovation of our economy and our national earning model, also to raise our SMEs to a higher level and to provide new energy to innovation, to launch new products and services. During the General Financial Reviews, my group discussed this in detail. In view of the importance of innovative start-ups, the connection they often link between high-tech and sustainability, and the fact that these companies are often run by our youngest generation of entrepreneurs, we call for more stringent government policies, including in taxation. My group believes that much more can be done here. Does the Secretary of State share this vision of innovative start-ups and their broader cultural and economic impact? Does he think that our tax system is enough to stimulate these young companies? Often, the existing RDA and S&D schemes are less relevant to start-ups. A profit tax discount is not interesting if you don't make a profit as a start-up in the first few years. And those years are decisive. For many start-ups, therefore, the proposed adjustments to the standard wage scheme for DGAs are simply outside their field of experience. My group would specifically like to ask the Secretary of State to consider, when reviewing the tax system, whether the existing innovation arrangements could be better combined with the specific needs of new, young, start-ups. Is he willing to do that? Does he see opportunities to offer young, innovative companies perspective from his portfolio? A second point concerns the waste tax, which has already been mentioned a few times. As part of the parliamentary examination of the 2014 Tax Plan, the design of this tax would achieve the intended yield of 100 million euros and would have a greening effect. My group has two questions on this. Can the government argue that this yield will indeed be realised, both in terms of budget and environmental impact? Import and export of waste were excluded from the levy, but the Dijkgraaf/Koolmees amendment subsequently introduced an export tax. How does the Secretary of State assess the persistence of this regime? At the time of the import waiver, the taxable person must prove, on the basis of his administration, that the waste comes from abroad and is not mixed with Dutch waste. That looks a little complicated. Can the IRS get away with this? Let's move on to the cost-of-work schedule. The bike control lapses. From a fiscal-historical point of view, we need to highlight that. The bike is of iconic significance in our country and symbolizes much of Dutch culture: quirkiness, simplicity, togetherness and the defying of the weather gods. Fortunately, a bicycle of the business remains possible within the free space that companies have in terms of 1.2% of the gross wage. Other products or services of the case, such as laptop and telephones, which are covered by the cost regulation, are subject to a stricter necessity criterion. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he assesses the enforcement of the application of this criterion? Is it equally clear and sharp in all cases? How big, in short, is the grey area? Finally, on the specific issues. My group understands that this year, the Tax Administration has collected more than EUR 50 million from non-payers than the year before. Does this mean that the target of EUR 600 million of additional collection will be within reach? The term "subpayers" has an obvious negative meaning. It is a group that knowingly does not pay its tax debt, a small 2.5% out of a total of 9 million taxpayers. But, so the Christian Union Group asks, how much is the share of the group that simply cannot meet this debt due to problematic accumulation of debt? What is the tax administration's policy for this vulnerable group, which is at risk of falling apart? Is there also an active commitment to debt relief? If so, what are the experiences with this? The 2015 Tax Plan also has a broader effect than the specific topics I mentioned. After all, it is one of the last tax plans that we can hope for, at least, for the envisaged major revision of the tax system. I shall come back to that in more detail. However, this transition phase also raises a number of problems of its own. For example, the original addition plan for leasing cars for 2016 has been softened, after heavy noise from the supporters of the State Secretary and auto-loving Netherlands. The addition is going up, but depends on C0 emissions. The environmental movement was sympathetic to helping, but the tariffs are temporary: they only apply for 2016. The issue here is that, pending the tax review, we are setting up all kinds of temporary tax emergency arrangements that cause the necessary unrest. It seems to my group that we should not only offer lease drivers but also the car industry more stability and less uncertainty, especially when it comes to long-term R&D routes around sustainable mobility. The development of clean and economical cars, of electric vehicles, takes time and fiscal stability over a longer period of time around addition is a factor not to be underestimated. How does the Secretary of State assess this logic of the invigorating tax temporaryity in the leasing sector, also in view of the need for an acceleration of green mobility and the need of lease drivers and the car industry for transparency and security around tax facilitation of clean and economical cars? The ChristianUnion Group asked the previous Secretary of State for Finance when discussing the Tax Plan 2014 for a vision of the role of taxation in accelerating development towards a green economy. An economy that is committed to sustainability, sparingly and consciously dealing with raw materials, a circular economy that focuses on reuse, an innovative biobased economy that realizes that fossil fuels are finite, an economy that tackles the climate problem seriously. Mr Van Boxtel has already discussed this in detail. Continuing on the current road simply cannot be done. We're really getting into the danger zone right now. Our tax system can play an important role in this necessary transition to a green economy. The note requested by my group was lost for some time, but it turned out to be hidden as an annex to the Prince's Day papers. The vision is certainly disappointing. My group cannot escape the impression that the Secretary of State has little to do with issues of sustainability and green growth. I suspect that if I ask him directly, he will exhaust himself in many fine sentences. But that's too easy; let's focus on his actions. The mandatory vision document, which appears to be a response to a policy letter from the Planning Bureau for the Environment (PBL) on fiscal greening, is not very inspiring. And this, while the Planning Bureau came up with some sensible suggestions regarding the use of energy taxation for improving climate and air quality, for example with regard to bringing tax rates for energy consumption more into line with its environmental damage. The cabinet response does not really go much further than the observation that the Netherlands is already doing a lot, that our competitiveness must not be compromised, that restraint is needed, that the international context must not be forgotten and that it is all very complicated. The most important frame is that stable tax revenues are a priority and that the'sense of urgency' is so observed that at least the acceleration of sustainable development is not felt. The note refers a few times to the government's letter of March 2013 on green growth. However, it hardly mentions the opportunities offered by our tax system to strengthen the transition to a sustainable economy. The references are virtually nil. Also in the basic document Choices for a better tax system hardly any innovation is made in this respect. Too bad. My group would like to encourage the Secretary of State to be more ambitious on this essential point. Not just kicking the brakes, but maybe throbbing the brakes. During the present period, the Secretary of State will be working hard on the revision of our tax system. That's what's been going on. My group wants to challenge him to think creatively and innovatively about how this review can promote sustainability and green growth. For the Christian Union Group, this is, in addition to reducing the burden on labour, a major challenge. Can the Minister undertake to give us more priority to this? Can he promise my group that the transition to a green economy will have a full place in the reform of the system? I'm considering a motion on this point. Maybe I can offer him an inspiration? Two weeks ago, PwC, EY, KPMG and Deloitte jointly published a bold tax advice in which they advocate a lower tax on labour and a higher tax on raw materials. In this way they are actually trying to address two problems simultaneously: high unemployment and resource scarcity. These "Big Four" of the accountancy world have calculated that with a tax shift of 34 billion from labour to raw materials, this double creates nearly 300,000 new jobs and saves the Treasury nearly 5 billion in benefits. The substantial reduction of VAT on repair and maintenance, which I mentioned earlier, also generates a considerable number of jobs. It is this kind of tilted thinking - yet unsuspectingly - that is necessary to significantly accelerate the development towards a circular economy. Is the Secretary of State going to play a leading role here? Or is he feeling more comfortable in the tail of the platoon? I'm rounding up. At the General Financial Reviews in November, the Secretary of State indicated that there are few things he is passionate about as much as job creation. I liked that statement. Does your passion, as I ask the Secretary of State through the President, also apply to a sustainable, green economy? From a fiscal point of view, the combination of both passions is worth gold for a State Secretary who wants to make a difference. My group looks forward to the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u112	Mr. Chairman. The 2015 Tax Plan is a fairly low-policy tax plan. That has been said before. No major policy changes or shifts, but a limited number of measures, with limited income effects as far as it appears, although these can, of course, be significant for the people concerned. The debate on such a low-policy tax plan can be conducted in different ways. You can discuss in detail the measures that are in it, or you can talk about the fact that the plan is so poor in policy, while the need for a review of our tax system is widely felt. The first carries the risk of getting involved in technical discussions; for the second, it is necessary that your partner also wants to look further than this Tax Plan itself. That is only to a very limited extent the case here, as we can see from the answers to the written questions. Still, I'll do it both ways. In the context of the forthcoming tax review, I will say something about the taxation of capital and fiscal greening, and I will go into a little more detail about the energy tax as set out in the Tax Plan. As I said, friend and enemy agree that there needs to be a tax review. There also seems to be consensus on the need to reduce the burden on labour. But that is where the consensus ends, not least within the current coalition of PvdA and VVD. Should power be taxed more heavily and if so, how? Through a heavier load of capital acquisition or growth, through a tax on real return? Should there also be a progressive system whereby large assets are taxed more heavily? And what about the capabilities of companies? Should the Netherlands take further measures to prevent tax avoidance and ensure that multinationals also pay real taxes? Should fiscal measures further contribute to the sustainability of the economy, and what does that mean for the taxation of fossil fuels versus renewable energy, and of large consumption versus small consumption? The government has written a start note, as I would like to mention, and is now going to visit political parties and civil society in the hope of coming up with detailed plans at the beginning of 2015; I had written that down, but I suspect it will be somewhere in 2015. That's good. Participation policy, poldering, support, there's nothing wrong with that. And it is to be hoped that, on the basis of all the input, the cabinet will manage to come up with coherent plans that have the broad support needed to guide them through parliament. As the Secretary of State of Jesse Klaver, my colleague across the street, will have understood, GroenLinks has good ideas on the revision of the tax system. When it comes to GroenLinks, we are indeed going to burden large capacities and quickly find the way we can do it as best we can, using the experience of others. In this context, I regret that the Secretary of State did not answer our written question to examine not only how other countries tax property income but also whether and how the increase in wealth itself is taxed. Maybe the Secretary of State can still make a commitment to include that point in his investigation? On tackling tax avoidance and real taxation of profits from multinationals, we have often crossed swords with the cabinet. We will continue to do so, because we find it unacceptable that large companies, with the help of the Dutch tax authorities, are able to pay virtually no tax. And, of course, the approach to tax avoidance has to be taken mainly internationally, but we expect this cabinet to show real initiative, to support plans and to actively co-operate with and within the OECD and the EU, so that we no longer get signals that the Netherlands is obstructing the approach to tax avoidance, but that the Netherlands is at the forefront of this. Can the Secretary of State assure us of his personal commitment to that point? Then the tax greening. Last week what we already knew was known: The Netherlands scored badly on the Climate Change Performance Index. Mr Van Boxtel also said it. Very bad indeed, because of the EU countries only Estonia scored even worse. However, this poor performance does not seem to have any effect on the sustainability ambitions of this cabinet, which is only hiding behind an energy agreement that has long been clear that it is insufficient. The cabinet preaches fine words about green growth and moving towards a circular economy in policy documents, but it does not fill these words with measures, with which these fine words remain empty cries. The same applies to fiscal greening. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance considers it a missed opportunity not to mention greening and sustainability as an explicit objective of the tax review, where promoting employment and economic growth are, in addition to simplification. In the government's view, sustainability is part of the tax review, one of the choices being to shift the tax burden from labour and business to sustainability, but only to the extent that it fits in with the other objectives. This means that simplification of taxes, employment and economic growth are more important for this cabinet than sustainability. We think that's a short-sighted choice. We will have to make the transition to a sustainable, ultimately circular economy. It's not gonna happen on its own. If a particular tax measure can make an important contribution to this, we will have to consider that measure, even if it may not directly simplify the system. And if we want to make the transition to a sustainable society, not all economic growth is desirable growth. We believe that the sustainability objective of the tax review should be at least as high as that of employment and economic growth. Only if these are equivalent criteria can a proper balance be made which, in a specific case, must weigh most, or perhaps how these objectives can reinforce each other. In reply to our written questions on this subject, the Secretary of State said that the cabinet did not choose sustainability as its main objective because sustainability does not necessarily require the solution to be sought in taxation. This isn't convincing. The same is true of employment and economic growth, and the solution must not necessarily be sought in taxation. But it can be done, and that also applies to sustainability. I therefore ask the Secretary of State once again whether he is prepared to include sustainability as a key objective in the tax review, in addition to simplification and in addition to the substantive criteria for employment and economic growth. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. I come to the issue of energy taxation. As is well known, GroenLinks believes that it is precisely in terms of energy taxation that a shift can be made towards 'polluter pays', by taxing actual pollution and CO emissions much more than is currently the case. This can and must be done in two ways: by taxing energy from fossil fuels more heavily than from renewable sources and by reducing the huge tax benefits for large consumers. Although the government also suggests that the polluter pays as a starting point, it then gives so much ifs and buts that it is only a question of whether a real step towards a more balanced energy tax can ever be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u113	Mrs De Boer says she wants to reduce or reduce the benefits for large consumers. Does it mean that we must drive companies that consume a lot of energy but simply out of the country and let those same companies elsewhere in the world, but perhaps with much less environmental restrictions, go about their business?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u114	What we mean is that we want to tax energy consumption more effectively. This may result in companies moving to another location. That's the same as with things like child labour. We are not going to allow child labour here either, because otherwise companies will go to another country where that happens. You have your own standards regarding what you find acceptable. We think you should burden the use of fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u115	I find it a bit bizarre to compare high energy consumption with child labour. Real prices are created on the market. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u116	If it's about taxes, it's not. When it comes to taxation, the government determines the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u117	My conclusion is that GroenLinks says: companies that use a lot of energy must be driven out of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u118	No, GroenLinks says: companies that use a lot of energy have to make a switch to another energy source. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. Although the Cabinet also points out that the polluter pays principle, it then mentions so many ifs and buts that it is only possible to take a substantial step towards achieving a more balanced energy tax. We believe that a sustainability objective in the tax system could help in this. And of course the international playing field is important, but that is not something you can hide behind endlessly. Certainly not as a country that closes the queues to climate performance. The question is clear: what is the government going to do to transform the energy tax as soon as possible so that the tax is linked more than now to actual C0 emissions? What will the cabinet do, both at national and international level? In this context, I would like to say that my group welcomes the answer given by the government in the written round that it does not have the explicit long-term objective that the overall revenue from the energy tax should remain the same, because such an objective could rather hinder the combination of fiscal promotion of renewable energy and an increase in the share of renewable energy. In the written questions and answers I had a rather technical discussion with the Secretary of State on energy taxation, and in particular the redesign of Articles 50 and 53 of the Environmental Tax Act, the Wbm. Let me start by saying that we welcome the possibility that entrepreneurs participating in cooperatives can also benefit from tax advantages for locally generated renewable energy and the extension of the exemption for renewable energy generation "behind the meter" for landlords of homes. According to the State Secretary, the other changes to the scheme are mainly technical changes, which shift the burden from the consumer to the supplier. There would be no substantive change in the situations covered by exemption or exemption. However, from the field we receive other signals. For example, some care structures could still benefit from the exemption, but not later. This would apply in particular to the construction in which the user pays per kilowatt hour to the receiving party. I have not received a clear answer from the Secretary of State, other than that he repeats the criteria of the law and repeats that there are no substantive changes. In practice, however, it is important to clarify this. That's why I'm trying one more time. Can the Secretary of State indicate at which care structures, and in which no exemption from the energy tax can be obtained, at present and after 1 January 2015? Is the criterion or is it settled per kilowatt-hour generated decisive in this respect, or do other criteria apply? Can users who do not pay per kWh generated, but a fixed lease price, be confident that they can make use of the exemption? And if the Secretary of State assures that of all users who now have an exemption, the supplier will soon receive an exemption, provided that the delivery structure does not change? We look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u119	Mr. Chairman. For the first time, the First Chamber in its present composition discusses a tax plan which is only limited in scope. My group is therefore particularly looking forward to the broad tax reform that the government has set in motion. In our opinion, the commitment should be lower burdens on labour and more jobs. Such a commitment calls for a broad approach, consisting of further greening, fairer capital taxation, simplification of deductions, tackling fraud and avoidance in box 2, and a better balance of the tax burden on employees vis-à-vis entrepreneurs. In the PvdA's view, the broad tax revision should consist of exploring seven possibilities, each individually, but certainly combined, which could create a considerable space for a wide spread reduction in the burden on labour. Firstly, maximizing the revenue from charges on environmental value use. Secondly, gradual shift towards and simplification of taxation on consumption. Thirdly, the revision and broadening of capital taxes. Fourthly, tax financial transactions. Fifth, revision of deductions. Sixthly, to review labour market-distorting rules. Finally, strengthen international coordination for fair taxation and the prevention of tax avoidance. My group is pleased that four of these issues are on the government's agenda when it comes to choosing a better tax system. It concerns sustainability, taxation of consumption, the capital efficiency levy and deductions. We look forward to receiving the letter from the Secretary of State, together with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, with regard to the intentions relating to capital inequality and capital tax. As we have seen before, in the Netherlands, capacity inequality is higher than average; higher than in most European countries, higher than in the United Kingdom and at the same level as in the United States. In addition, there is evidence that capital inequality has increased further in recent years. At the same time, a multitude of interventions have led to a further reduction in the tax on capital in the Netherlands in the past period. This is below the OECD average. We are therefore happy to remain in talks with the government about the possibilities of adjusting the capital and capital gains tax. And can we assume in the broad review of taxation that special attention will be paid to the position of the lower income groups? This is how we ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u120	Mrs Sent says that my group is pleased that four of the issues are on the government's agenda. With regard to the deductions, the Secretary of State said that we are not getting the most important of them, the mortgage interest rate. On the issue of capital taxes, Mrs Sent said that she wanted to see a broadening of this. Of this, the Secretary of State says: an increase in the capital efficiency levy is not obvious. What do you have now, Mrs. Sent? You ask: can we expect special attention to be paid to the position of the low income groups? No, you can't assume that at all, because the VVD doesn't like that at all. It is in the coalition agreement, but the PvdA Group is the underlying party. You're not playing anything. With these proposals now before us regarding the revision of the Tax Plan, the PvdA is not making any progress at all. So you can't assume what you're assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u121	What is your question, Mr Reuten?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u122	I do have an answer, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u123	My question is: what do you think of that, Mrs Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u124	Mr Reuten is an economist. We all know what the predictive value of economists is, so I absolutely cannot go along with his prediction that there will be nothing done about deductions and that nothing will be done about the capital return tax. In the reply we have read that there is indeed attention to tackling the deductions. In the case of the capital yield levy, the government's plan, as I understand it, is to tax on the basis of real returns. That is indeed an adjustment of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u125	First of all, Mr Reuten, Mr Van Strien, because he has a further question to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u126	It is true that the tax is levied on actual return, but it must remain within that 4%. The Secretary of State says that there will be no increase in the levy. Where the hell are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u127	Here again, Mr Reuten is getting ahead of himself. We are still in conversation with the cabinet and we are still expecting a letter with an appreciation of wealth inequality and wealth tax in an international perspective. If there is a tax on real returns, this is indeed a progressive tax if the most wealthy with the greatest returns are going to pay more than small savers, who receive lower interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u128	I often disagree with Mr Reuten, but then we usually know what we do not agree on. Because when he presents something, he always tells us where he got it from. Mrs Sent is now presenting a large number of data. For example, the capital tax in the Netherlands should be increased, because it is the lowest in the whole European environment and the capital is the highest in the whole European environment. I'd like to know where she got that from.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u129	That's what I got from Bas van Bavel research, for example. Also recently, the EU has made another comparison of capital taxes. The EU study shows that capital taxes in the Netherlands are relatively lower compared to the rest of the world. If you are interested in this, we have already mentioned this when we discussed the previous Tax Plan. At that time I also drew attention to a large number of sources. You can read back where it came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u130	I would like to ask Mrs Sent if she knows the note Millionaires in the Netherlands from the CBS. What I'm interested in is numbers from a recognized agency, like the CBS, and not from some random investigator. That note explicitly states that, in so far as data are available, the capacities in the Netherlands do not differ more in high and low than in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u131	Mr Van Bavel is not some random investigator. He is a professor at Utrecht University. His research has been published in a scientific journal and referees have carefully examined his data.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u132	Finally, Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u133	There was one more question. I asked if Mrs Sent knows the note Millionaires in the Netherlands from the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u134	I'm familiar with that one. Mr. Chairman. That leaves three of the seven subjects. That is first and foremost the taxation of financial transactions. My group agrees with the three conditions that must be met if the Netherlands is to join in closer cooperation for a tax on the financial sector. Firstly, the Dutch pension funds remain exempt from a financial sector tax, secondly, there is no disproportionate correlation with the current banking tax and thirdly, income flows back to the Member States. With the government, we regret that the latest proposal for a directive does not meet these conditions. On our proposal to revise labour market-distorting rules, the second remaining point, my group was not allowed to receive any reaction from the government. As indicated earlier, we are referring here to the distortions in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed in recent years. This large difference in tax and contribution burden, which can rise to more than half of total labour costs for comparable net incomes, leads to an increasing number of companies dismissing employees and then hiring self-employed workers at bottom rates. The result is a negative spiral in which a shrinking number of wage-earners have to pay an increasing share of taxes, making them even more expensive compared to self-employed workers. Workers thus finance the erosion of their own position and also the erosion of their support under social insurance. Does the Secretary of State consider this desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u135	Before the Secretary of State answers, I do have one more question. Mrs Sent makes it as if there is a deliberate policy behind it. At least that's what it sounds like. Could it also be that this is simply due to changing circumstances throughout the Dutch economy, such as increasing flexibility, more temporary hiring rather than permanent forces, the loss of classical manufacturing industry to much more service? If Mrs. Sent mentions that, it gets a slightly different sound color.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u136	Absolutely. I agree with Mr Van Boxtel that it is not just tax-driven, but we are concerned as far as it is tax-driven. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA represents a fair and balanced tax treatment of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. Account should be taken of the risks incurred by entrepreneurs and the costs of insurance for illness and old age. On the other hand, false self-employment must be avoided and it must be avoided that purely tax-driven "entrepreneurship" undermines the basis of our social security. The choice between wage or self-employment should be a real choice. I assume that Mr Van Boxtel agrees with me on this point. I wonder whether the Secretary of State agrees with this and what role he gives himself in this. Our last remaining point, namely international coordination for fair taxation and the prevention of tax avoidance, remains an issue that needs to be addressed, as the various contributions made by my fellow Members have shown. The Netherlands is attractive as a place of business for internationally operating companies. For example, the Netherlands has the participation exemption and the Netherlands has concluded a very large number of double taxation conventions, as Mr Van Boxtel has already pointed out. In addition, the Netherlands has no withholding taxes on outgoing payments of interest or royalties. Together with the possibility of obtaining advance certainty on the tax consequences of proposed legal acts, this has created a very attractive locational environment. Add infrastructure, labour force development, administrative efficiency and living environment, and the Netherlands is one of the most attractive countries to establish a business. In turn, companies, employees, consumers and the government in the Netherlands benefit from this. At the same time, this attractive position as a side effect has contributed to efforts to avoid tax through the Netherlands. For example, international companies can dissipate their business chains and increase profits in those countries where the tax burden is lowest. They can also respond to the lack of harmonisation of different tax systems, leading to "stateless income." Finally, they can use intermediary companies. As a result, the effective tax burden on some multinationals has fallen below 5%. This has different negative effects. For example, small businesses are forced out of the market by tax avoidance, especially of multinationals, because they pay the full tax. There is also an extreme accumulation of capital in tax havens, which disrupts the economic cycle. In addition, the legitimacy of the free market economy is at stake if citizens no longer accept that they bear the burden of the crisis and that multinationals enjoy duty-free. With this, the extensive cash flows that Dutch letterbox companies process bring risks to the Netherlands, as described by SEO and endorsed by the government. I said 'letterbox companies', but I should have corrected that for a moment, because Mr Essers is going to tell me that I am a little unsophisticated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u137	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u138	Agreed! Agreed, agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u139	We have had a whole debate about it. We must avoid falling into the same trap over and over again. Mrs Sent talks about link-up companies, letterbox companies and multinationals, but these are quite different quantities.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u140	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u141	A letterbox company, isn't there anyone behind it? But you have to look at the substance of the company we're talking about every time. Then you can talk about risks, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u142	Yes, I agree with Mr Essers. These risks are the integrity risk, reputation risk and risk of base erosion in developing countries, for which a number of speakers have already called for attention. All this has never been the intention of tax treaties to prevent double taxation. The Netherlands is part of a problem, but must become part of the solution. Does the Secretary of State agree with us and, if so, what initiatives does he take? For example, the General Court recommends to the Cabinet that in future the Court of Auditors be informed of the way in which abuse or unintentional use is prevented by any new tax convention. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? More generally, the General Court recommends that the Cabinet periodically inform Parliament of the flows of money that enter our country through companies and the impact of measures to prevent improper use. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? In this context, the PvdA welcomes the government's intention to share the so-called tax rotations with other countries. The Netherlands is willing to be vulnerable to show that the agreements made by foreign companies with the Tax Administration are neat. We also welcome the government's agreement to the measures to prevent abuse of the European Parent-Subsidiary Directive. While the parent-subsidiary rule ensures that companies and their subsidiaries do not pay double taxation, the scheme appears to be liable to abuse. But how does this agreement with the abuse directive relate to the government's previous opposition, because its implementation would not be clear enough? I'm going back to the 2015 Tax Plan, as it is now in front of us. The PvdA welcomes the fact that for the first time in years no substantial tax increases are needed. In fact, as compared to the path set out in the coalition agreement, 349 million is being reduced, thus increasing purchasing power slightly in 2015. My group supports the fair sharing measures in this package. I am thinking here of the increase in the maximum working discount and the wage that directors-major shareholders have to pay to themselves. The PvdA welcomes the incentive of the housing market by extending the interest relief on residual debts when purchasing a new property, as well as the extension of the reduced VAT rate on renovation and restoration of homes. The greening can also count on our support. I am thinking here of the increase in energy tax rates, adjustments in waste tax and the increase in the reduced rate for locally produced energy. We are also very satisfied with the final outcome of the tax on leasing cars in 2016, where electric driving gets an extra boost and expensive polluting cars are taxed more via the bpm. Finally, the PvdA welcomes the fact that there is now a working cost regime which is widely supported by the social partners. However, we are concerned about the potential abuse of the work-cost regime, about which we are more concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u143	Senator Sent is pleased that purchasing power will increase slightly in 2015. The draft resolution shows that there is indeed a slight increase, but it is the strongest for the highest and the least for the low incomes. No, I shouldn't say that. Purchasing power is increasing most for high incomes and least for middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u144	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u145	He's rising the most...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u146	On page 61 of the report, you will see that the purchasing power of the highest incomes over the last two years is the lowest.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u147	First of all, we are talking about 2015. There we see 16% increase and 0.75%. At the bottom we see 35% of the CPB and 0.5% and in the group between them, the middle incomes, we see 0.25%.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u148	If you add it up in recent years, purchasing power will rise the least for the highest incomes. Mr Reuten is working on creative shopping in the Mrs's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u149	No, no, no! I have produced a table and it shows that in the period 2013-2015 the median growth of purchasing power is one, while for the lower 35% is zero. For everyone else, he's positive. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u150	Page 61 of the Coroner's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u151	Page 61!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u152	About the last two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u153	Mind if I step in here for a second so you don't get into a fight like that? I'd like to go through the chairman. Mr Reuten asked a question and Mrs Sent replied. Everyone's waiting for each other for a while, and we're not gonna take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u154	You're absolutely right! Page 61...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u155	Page 61 of the Cordaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u156	It says 2014-2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u157	Yes, and the purchasing power of the highest incomes shows the least increase over the last two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u158	That's not true. The lowest incomes go up the least. If you add 2013 to the list, you have to bring in an earlier draftsman. Secondly, Mrs Sent says that her group supports the fair sharing measures contained in this package. Then she is also doing selective shopping, because when you look at purchasing power you see that this is just not the case. This is evident from the same state of affairs, and this is because the increase in the labour cut from 0.5 billion to incomes goes above €47 000. That's the debilitating effect of the package. But even if it were all zero, would the PvdA bring in what she wanted to bring in? For the PvdA, reducing income disparities is a key element of policy and the government agreement also says it wants to reduce income differences, but it does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u159	Mrs. Sent...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u160	Is the PvdA Group happy with that? If not, what is it really going to do about this rather than ask questions to the government? What is the PvdA Group going to do effectively to ensure that what has been promised finally happens? Or is this cabinet indeed a VVD cabinet with the PvdA as a baseball bat or how should I say that neatly with the PvdA as a Kleindumpje?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u161	Mrs. Sent, it's a jump-off. I would like to give you an opportunity to comment on this and then I would like to close this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u162	The PvdA welcomes the fair sharing measures in the package, which I would like to list for Mr Reuten. The rate of the first share of payroll tax has gone to 36.5% instead of 36.7%. We see an increase in the maximum working discount of €100 for incomes from €20,000 to €49,000. The general tax discount has been increased by €80. There is a steeper reduction in the overall tax reduction from 2% to 2.32% and the wage that directors-large shareholders have to pay themselves increases. There will be an anti-abuse measure for non-business low rewards. Dgas are going to pay 150 million more taxes. That is a good start for my group. Furthermore, international comparisons show that for income tax the Netherlands has a relatively uneven distribution of income, even more uneven than in the United States. After income tax, the Netherlands has a relatively equal distribution of income, much more similar than the United States. The taxes are therefore very leveling and, with the package of measures I have just listed, this government has added a number of measures. On a number of parts of the tax plan before us, we would like to receive a more detailed explanation from the State Secretary. The first part concerns the cost of working. My group agrees with the specific adjustments, which will make it possible to eliminate virtually all the bottlenecks identified during the evaluation, while at the same time significantly improving the feasibility. In order to be able to introduce these measures in a budget neutral manner, the free space will be reduced from 1.5% to 1.2%. However, there is concern that free space may be abused by drivers to pay themselves duty-free bonuses at a rate of about the second disc. In the reply we read that the government shares that concern and believes that there is a need for further tightening up of the utility criterion. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what form the tightening up is expected to take. The second part concerns waste taxation. The government proposes to tax the waste offered from the Netherlands by companies, municipalities or individuals for landfill or incineration. In this way, the burden of a waste tax is evenly distributed among citizens and businesses and there is a broad basis, which allows the rate to be set relatively low. The Lower House has called on the State Secretary to introduce an export tax in order to prevent the higher tax on waste in the Netherlands leading to increased exports of waste and thus loss of employment. Does the Secretary of State consider such a levy desirable and necessary? We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what form this export tax will take. The third and final part concerns energy taxation. During the examination of the present Tax Plan in the Lower House, the State Secretary undertook to monitor the development of the increase in the energy tax on natural gas for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries on the basis of consumption figures and to see if anything unusual would happen. What will be the reaction of the Secretary of State if something unusual happens? Should we fear a repetition of the situation surrounding the water load? In other words, will a policy decision be taken to suspend the tax measures adopted by Parliament? Or will the Secretary of State bring an urgent repair proposal? We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what opportunities he sees to stimulate the production of renewable energy by small consumers. The PvdA continues to be estranged that it matters whether someone puts solar panels on his or her own house or, together with others, on a school building nearby. Does the Secretary of State share our view that this is unnecessarily hindering the use of solar energy? If so, what consequences does he have? As a final part of my contribution, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the economic underpinning of some of the government's proposals and initiatives. This will probably also please the scientist in Mr Reuten. An increase in VAT combined with the use of revenue to reduce income and wage taxes does not have to have a positive effect on employment at all. After all, the incentives to offer work are determined only by how many goods can be purchased with an hour's work. In other words, increasing VAT and putting it back through a proportional reduction in income tax does not give labour market benefits. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Calculations by the Central Planning Bureau would also show that there is little point in reducing tax rates in order to stimulate employment. In other words, the decision on participation can be influenced much more by financial incentives than by the decision on hours. For one specific group, according to the CPB, it makes sense to try to increase their hours worked: mothers with young children. According to the CPB, it is therefore beneficial to focus a tax review on the increase in the income-dependent combination discount. Will the Secretary of State take these insights into account in the comprehensive tax review? Furthermore, wage costs subsidies for knowledge workers need not lead at all to an increase in the number of knowledge workers. After all, this stimulates the demand for knowledge workers and further increases the scarcity of knowledge workers. It is better to encourage the supply of knowledge workers to cope with the scarcity. In this knowledge-based economy, highly productive knowledge workers earn high wages, pay a lot of payroll taxes and can be used to finance high-quality education and research.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u163	I remember that when we discussed the Tax Plan last year, or perhaps even two years ago, we also discussed this issue. I asked the Secretary of State at the time to look at the problems that universities in the Netherlands have in attracting knowledge workers from abroad in the Netherlands, because then all these regulations would be obstructive. Those knowledge workers do not come to the Netherlands, because they do not find a good climate to work here, while they do get fantastic offers. They'd rather stay in Germany or Belgium. I cannot reconcile this with what Mrs Sent is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u164	I propose to make it attractive not only to hire knowledge workers, but also to make it attractive for knowledge workers to offer themselves. I do not think there is enough attention to be paid to this. I will finish my speech; perhaps I have convinced Mr Van Boxtel. Is it not the reverse world to heavily subsidise the labour costs of knowledge workers? Why does the government want to exclude public knowledge institutions such as TNO and university institutions from the S&D reduction? With these last reflections I conclude the contribution of the PvdA in the first term. We must not forget that the Secretary of State and his officials have worked extremely hard and that we are very grateful to them for their prompt and careful answers to our written questions. We look forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State to our oral contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u165	In conclusion, I have a question for Mrs Sent in general. I also asked Mr Bröcker that question. My question concerns the speed at which the tax review can take place. I am the last to acknowledge that this requires support. Does Mrs Sent not agree with me that the current timetable is far too slow? Apart from the fact that everyone has their priorities, everyone wants to reduce labour costs in order to compete. I also hear Mrs Sent arguing for the acceleration of sustainability initiatives, including through the fiscal road. How long are we gonna wait for it? How does the Labour Party feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u166	I understand that the cabinet on Princess Day is coming up with a letter on the broad tax review. I thought I understood this from the reply. I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State if this isn't the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u167	I asked what Mrs. Sent thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u168	I understand that this is the case. I'm gonna tell you what I think if this is the case. We are in favour of reducing costs, but not if this is to be paid by cuts. The momentum isn't right now. The momentum is there when the economy can pay it again. According to DNB and the Central Plan Bureau, growth is slowly picking up. It is then possible to conduct both responsible fiscal policies and to have room for a tax review.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u169	For the last time, Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mrs Sent says that tax reform is made conditional on possible windfalls. If these aren't there, nothing will be done. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u170	If more time is taken and if the economy is more stable, the climate will be more favourable to carrying out broad revisions than in the current situation, which calls for austerity, which we are not in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u171	I don't mean it faint, but then it's not Labour Party for a while. We're looking for jobs, aren't we? If everyone says that that is what we want, then we need to take a step, regardless of whether there are any windfalls. If you say it shouldn't lead to cuts, you put yourself in a tight spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u172	Those steps towards jobs are indeed being taken. Minister Asscher has rolled out all kinds of plans to boost employment. It is absolutely not a matter of not paying attention to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u173	Finally, Mr Van Boxtel, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u174	For the sake of clarity, I respect what Mrs Sent says. The plans of Minister Asscher are all plans for government-related or stimulated jobs. Now, however, it is the market that needs to be challenged. The market must create jobs, and this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u175	We're waiting for the right moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u176	This is a good time to ask if one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. This is not the case.
