ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u1	I see that Mr Knops will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am indeed replacing Mr De Rouwe in this debate. In general consultation, the National Action Plan for Student Housing, which runs from 2011 to 2016, has been discussed. Housing corporations undertake to build 16,000 new student rooms between 2011 and 2016. Kences indicates that more than 8,000 new student living rooms have already been delivered, that 4,300 are under construction and that almost 4,400 are in preparation. It looks like the target is being met, despite the crisis. The question is whether there will be enough affordable student housing. We see a number of problems in Amsterdam and Utrecht surrounding housing for students. Now that the Chamber has agreed to abolish the basic grant, the future student will stay at home for longer. The choice for a student who wants to or must stay in rooms is that parents contribute or that there is rented for too high room prices. Some studies can only be followed at a great distance from the parental home. The new measures will make it financially difficult for students. This is precisely why the group of student rooms under €350 needs to increase. That is why we have one motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Action Plan for Student Housing currently in force has a duration of up to 2016;]] [[Whereas the lifting of the basic grant makes it unattractive for students to leave their homes and therefore more students will stay at home;]] [[Whereas such measures will have a significant impact on the quantity and quality of future student accommodation, which can also vary considerably per student city;]] [[Calls on the Government to take the initiative vigorously to present in 2015 the updated qualitative and quantitative demand for student accommodation and translate it into a new National Student Housing Action Plan for the period 2016-2020;]] [[calls on the Government also to reflect the differences per student city and what fits within the financial capacity of students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops, Mr De Rouwe and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u3	Mr. Chairman. This is about social housing that is now in danger of being sold to a German investor by the Vestiadebacle, through the gambling of tenants' money, while municipalities that want to keep houses for the social housing stock. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipalities of Tilburg, Arnhem and the G32 wish to retain social housing now owned by Vestia for the social housing stock;]] [[noting that Vestia will sell 6,000 units, including 5,500 homes, to the German investor PATRIZIA;]] [[noting that according to the circular sales corporate housing MG 2013-02, the views submitted by municipalities and/or tenants' organisations must "in principle be positive';]] [[calls on the Government to respect the negative views and to allow the sale of Vestia residences to other housing corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I shall deal with the Knops motion in part No. 361. I note that both Mr Knops and Mr De Rouwe and I welcome the fact that the current Student Housing Action Plan is going well. I think it has been prepared by Mr Donner. So this tastes like more. Now an action plan by its nature is always a cooperation agreement between different parties. Student pension schemes, colleges and municipalities play a role in this. I have therefore indicated in general consultation that I would very much like to sit down with those parties in the next year, the last year in progress, to see if we will follow up on it. I myself am in favour of this. However, I find it a little complicated to say in advance, without consulting them, that they will agree to it. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Knops to hold the motion and wait for my letter in the course of the coming year and then decide whether there is any need for an incentive, or whether we are simply so incredibly in agreement that there is no need for a motion anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u5	On its own, the Minister could do that if he could be more specific. "Today year" means 2015. I cannot keep the motion for a resolution forever, so if the Minister can take the initiative to make short-term contacts with these organizations and inform the Chamber about it, I am prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u6	Yes, I will at least inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u7	That is specific, but it is also quite long; more than half a year. I am looking for a real deadline to establish the first contacts to see if the organisations are prepared to do so. It seems to me that this should be possible somewhere in the first quarter of 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u8	I have no objection to that either. Every year we make a monitor of student accommodation, which also addresses the questions that Mr Knops asked about affordability and housing demand per city. I thought it might be useful if we had one. That's why I thought I'd do it later in the year. However, at the beginning of next year, I would like to go round the organisations, to see if they are in favour of such a plan. I have no objection to this: I will return to it in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u9	Mr Knops, what are you doing with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u10	I think that was clear, but I will hold the motion if the Minister could inform the Chamber on the first point in the first quarter. For the rest, I can join the regular reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u11	At the request of Mr Knops, I propose his motion (29453), No. 361) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u12	Then I come to the Karabulut motion on part No. 362 on the sale by Vestia of residences to Patrizia. The motion calls on the government to respect the negative views of municipalities and/or landlords' organisations and to allow the sale of Vestia residences to other housing corporations. Vestia is the largest corporation in the reorganisation that is also the most in trouble. Vestia must implement a restructuring plan commissioned by the Central Fund for Housing, in a form in which the Central Fund also has confidence. The Central Fund has considered that it is inevitable that there will be sales to pay off that large debt of 1.6 billion. It's not possible to get Vestia back healthy without selling it. With regard to this package, housing corporations were also able to offer. However, the highest bid on the whole package appeared to come from this investor. As should be the case, this sale has been submitted to the inspection, the ILT. The inspection has checked whether the sale complies with the rules, it has looked at the objections, but it has also, of course, taken into account that it is a reorganisation company where there is a need to avoid worse. The inspection therefore considered that the sale fulfilled the conditions. Tenant organisations or other interested parties may object; this decision shall be open to opposition. There is that possibility, but I do not think it is on the way of a minister to intervene if an independent inspection has checked the rules and says that this specific transaction complies with the rules. Now only the route of appeal and appeal is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u13	Of course, inspection and others must comply with the rules in force. It's not about stopping the sale either; the sale is a given and that debacle unfortunately we don't turn back anymore either. First of all, there is a negative view of a number of municipalities. Secondly, the importance of social housing must of course also be taken into account. Is there any possibility of extending the period for municipalities and for other corporations to take over these homes and, in that sense, to look at them again before the closing date I believe that this is 15 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u14	That's what we've been looking at for the past year. By the way, there are also transactions with other housing corporations. It was only for this large package that it was not possible to find a sufficiently attractive buyer among the housing corporations. Hence, Vestia has reached agreement with Patrizia. Vestia submitted this transaction to the inspection, including the objections raised in a number of municipalities. In the interests of housing, preventing further financial damage to Vestia and the other corporations that have to co-pay, the inspection has considered that this complies with the rules and consent given. There's another possibility of objection. Those who have expressed negative views may therefore object or appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u15	What exactly is the situation with regard to circular sales housing that the views are "in principle positive', because they are not. That's my first question. My second question is when the time limit for objections will end. The Minister may also reply later by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u16	"In principle positive" indicates that the inspection weighs interests. The fact that this is a corporation which is in very serious financial difficulties and which is also subject to a restructuring levy being paid by the entire corporation sector will have played a major role in the assessment of the inspection. And although there were negative views, far from everywhere but in a number of places, the inspection considered that the sale should continue. I do not know the deadline for the objection procedure, but I would be happy to let the Chamber know what it is. On balance, I'm not suggesting the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-34.u17	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
