ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, as well as the participants in this debate and those sitting in the public gallery, the people who are following this debate at home or in any other way. Then there's more than one, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. You could be mistaken and think this law is about introducing a quota, but it's not about that. It is about an agreement made by the Secretary of State with the social partners about perhaps 2026. If 125,000 jobs are not achieved smoothly, a quota may be introduced in 2017, not for 5%, but depending on the derogation, this will often be much lower and far too low. This is the first objection of the SP Group to the bill. The second objection is that it is a shame for the Secretary of State to justify severe cuts of some 2 billion on young disabled people, benefit recipients and social workshops. My group is not very happy about this either, as one will understand. My third objection is that the agreements on jobs are soft. We're in an economically difficult time. I agree with the Secretary of State that this is not a justification for doing nothing. On the contrary. But when you do things, you have to do them right. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the social agreement does not provide sufficient jobs for all jobseekers with a high distance from the labour market;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the social partners, to come forward with a job plan that does not exclude anyone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u3	In the legislative consultation we also discussed in detail the problem that this law is the final piece of the Secretary of State's plans which were supposed to be fantastic. They would aim to include disabled people in the labour market in order to achieve an inclusive society, with equal opportunities for employment, income and training. In practice, I fear the opposite effect. You can see that all over the discussion. No one's made any sense yet. With one handicap you're part of it, with the other not. If you're a little too good, maybe that's a weird term, but it comes down to that, then you're part of it, at least you're under the job deal, and otherwise you're not. This leads to very perverse situations, I am afraid, and to the opposite, namely that people are not confined but excluded. That's why I said if you're gonna do it, you're gonna have to do it right again. Ensure that all persons with disabilities in need of support are covered by this scheme with a high distance from the labour market, whether or not they can meet the statutory minimum wage requirement. That's at least 300,000. I have tabled two amendments on this subject, to which I would like to have a reply from the Secretary of State. I also have the next motion for a resolution on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the 125,000 guarantee jobs agreed in the social agreement apply only to those who can earn less than the statutory minimum wage and therefore a large group of people with disabilities are not eligible for a guarantee job;]] [[Whereas the quota levy may result in employers dismissing employees in order to replace those covered by the target register with displacement;]] [[Whereas, upon entry into force of the quota system, sufficient instruments should be in place to prevent displacement;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with rules to exclude displacement on entry into force of the quota regime by summer 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u4	There's another problem with this bill. If the quota scheme enters into force and the number of jobs is not reached, a fine of €5,000 will be imposed. This again shows that double standards are applied, because the fine is too low. I have therefore tabled an amendment which doubles the fine so that, if necessary, it becomes really a stick to hit and not a lollipop stick, because employers do not feel very much of it. The injustice of this situation is felt by people that it is really so, and I too, that the Secretary of State is very strict on benefit recipients. There are 2 billion cuts, all young disabled people are inspected, benefits are cut considerably and the social workplace becomes a death home. However, employers, the big employers, are treated by the Secretary of State with velvet gloves. For the time being, therefore, there is no obligation to create jobs. I think it's too low. To my great surprise, the Secretary of State then says that she is not going to stop that minimum return in creating jobs or supporting this group. No, she's just going to use it to pay for the cuts in benefits, which have already been fully booked. That's a very strange thing to do. I have tabled an amendment on that point too. I would like to end with two motions to ensure or contribute to promoting social entrepreneurship rather than forgetting what the Secretary of State is doing now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas guarantee jobs only count for the job quota in companies with 25 employees or more;]] [[Whereas smaller companies also employ people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the government to agree with social partners and regional work companies to actively encourage companies with fewer than 25 employees to employ people in the target group register and to make use of all the facilities available to this target group to achieve additional jobs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a job quota may be an important way of contributing to equal employment opportunities for people with disabilities;]] [[whereas this requires social entrepreneurship;]] [[calls on the government to oblige companies with more than 50 people to publish a social annual report, which will account for what has been done to employ people with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-31]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u5	Perhaps the Secretary of State could take a slightly more positive approach to the SP's proposals in order to try to make it work. It will be clear that I am very sceptical at the moment, given the reaction I received from the Secretary of State in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are dealing here with a bill that I have never been a great supporter of. Frankly, that also applies to the VVD Group. The VVD Group is not of quota. She has also always been very critical of this bill. However, as I have always said, we are in favour of our signature. This applies to our signature under the coalition agreement, the social agreement and the agreements we have made with our coalition partners. That doesn't mean I didn't follow this bill critically. For me, there were three touchstones. Is the law really enforceable? Is what we want realistic? And most importantly, is it fair? Is it fair to people with disabilities and is it fair to businesses? I am pleased to note that the job agreement is now at the heart of the matter and that the quota may never come off. I am also satisfied with the firm and positive adjustment of the original idea on five points. As a result, labour restrictions, but especially companies in the country, are much better off with this possible quota law. Among other things, we are dealing with a lower quota rate of about 2.5 in 2026 instead of the original 5. The borrowers and the posted will count from now on. That's incredibly important. The VVD has always worked hard for this. Before the quota enters into force, there is first a consultation with social partners and municipalities. It certainly won't happen automatically. It's gonna be a good time to discuss things, I'm guessing. We are going to look again at the nature, size, definition of the target group and the state of the economy. In addition, we examine whether there is sufficient quality and quantity of supply. The latter is incredibly important. Indeed, many employers say that they want very much, that there are also jobs and that they want to do their best, but they do ask the government to come up with good people and with sufficient supply. If the public authorities fail, they should not be fined. One of the most important points is that we have expanded the target group. It was a desire of the VVD to be able to include highly qualified people with disabilities when the quota law enters into force. This target group often has to work against the currents in order to earn the legal minimum wage. It would be a shame if they were forced out of the market. We are very pleased that yesterday the motion tabled by the VVD together with its coalition partner had great support, at least emotionally. It has also led to an amendment by D66 which we can also support. We also talked about the root and the stick. This bill seems to be mainly about the stick, but I also think it is important for us to consider the root. The VVD Group, together with its coalition partner, has put forward a proposal for the possible deactivation of the law, the so-called deactivation button. That's what we're gonna do when we get the job deals back. This law is not intended to punish companies; it must also be enforceable if employers and employees comply with the agreement of 125,000 jobs and are simply back in the right growth path. I welcome the support for this motion. I do have a question for the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State undertake that this motion, which will be put to the vote next week and which will hopefully be voted on positively, could lead to a possible revision of the Jobs Agreement Act and labour cut quota? I estimate that there will be a technical review next year. Can the Secretary of State undertake that this can be taken into account in the technical review? Can it indicate when we are likely to be able to look forward to the technical review?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u7	I am struggling with the substance of this motion. I'm gonna think about it. I also have a factual and more legal question. We're handling the bill today. I think that we should now process everything that is legislation as much as possible. There was an amendment by Mr Potters to do what he just proposed. It says that the quota law can be deported if you have complied with it for one year. He has also tabled a motion stating a period of three years. Why then does he not present an amendment today or before the vote to put that three-year period in the law? This is not the question of whether I will support it, but that is the purest form of the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u8	One of the criticisms of your or another colleague's amendment was that it might be a flashing light if you could quickly turn the law on and off. That is a right point of criticism. That is why we have tabled a motion in which it becomes possible after three years. The first moment will then be in 2020. We will then re-evaluate every three years. I have also asked the Secretary of State to take a closer look at this and to embed it in the law. We have a possibility through the motion to do so now. I ask the Secretary of State to look at this carefully and, if possible, take it into account in the next technical review. It is important to see whether we can anchor the spirit of this motion in a good and careful way. That's why I've just chosen a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u9	I've thought three years is a lot better than a year. Only, of course, the answer is: if you already think that, change the amendment. Turn "one year" into "three years." Then we can just vote on it. I really do not think it is proper, not even with regard to colleagues in the Senate, if we put a law in the First Chamber that we say we are going to change it, but you will notice that in the next round. So again my question: why is the amendment not just being amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u10	I can understand the question very well, if it is not that it is in itself in no hurry to anchor it in the law now, because this is about the period during which the quota enters into force. That's at the earliest in 2017. I understand from the Secretary of State that there may still be a few hooks and eyes attached, but that she can endorse the spirit of the motion. I'm fine with it. I have sufficient confidence that this motion will be accepted as far as possible at the time of the first technical amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u11	I have a technical question. What does "deactivation" mean? Does this mean that the law will in fact stand in the event that the employment agreement will not be reached again after that three-year period? After all, things can get worse. Does the law come back into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u12	That's the spirit of the law. In fact, we are talking about a switch-off. The quota button is on when the job agreement is not reached. Then the quota will be activated. It is conceivable that the employment agreement will be restored at macro level in a period thereafter. Small businesses are then faced with the fact that they have to apply for a decision from the Tax Administration for failure to comply with the quota. I'd be sorry to hear that. If the job deal goes back, put that quota off. Mrs Schouten is right: at the time when the job agreement would not be reached after that, the quota will simply be reactivated and we will review after three years. It's a bonus-malus system. If those 125,000 jobs are taken and the growth path is there, then the quota can, as far as I am concerned, come out again. Then you don't have the idea: once by red, every year a fine. That's the system now. Then you can deactivate the quota again. However, it remains legal. The moment the job agreement is not reached again, you can also activate the quota again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u13	So it's actually a carrot, but with another stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u14	It's always better to have something that's at least a carrot. And that's definitely this deactivation button. It also stimulates employers in a positive way to work with the employment agreement. I am afraid that once the quota comes into effect, employers may think: let me just pay the quota and leave it at that. In this way it is also a positive incentive. I believe that this is also in line with Mrs Schouten's contribution to the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u15	I think Mr Van Weyenberg has just asked a fair question. With that motion and with Mr Potters' concrete appeal to amend the law that is now before us, you are giving the First Chamber the signal that it must deal with a law that can actually be regarded as a work in progress. Mr Potters says: that is not a problem, because there is no rush. But if there is no hurry, why should the law be dealt with and passed so quickly here? There is then plenty of time and space to change the law during the period. Wouldn't it be better if you just waited at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u16	I've always been very critical of this law. I have also been critical of the process so far. I would have liked to see some things well secured. However, it is also important that we clarify for employers and for the people themselves the target groups and what exactly we are going to do with this law. It is important to do so before 1 January 2015. That is why we supported the proposal to deal with the law now. This point is an important point for the VVD, but it can still be settled at a later date. It's "work in progress," but that goes for more things under this law. I fully agree with Mr Heerma that we could have done a number of things better right away, for example with regard to zero measurement and with regard to the target group monitor. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. But in itself, we can now support the law, because it will give clarity to the target groups, and employers now know where they stand. This is also important for this law, which must enter into force from 1 January 2015 or shortly thereafter. So that's the trade-off we've made.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u17	Once again, Mr Potters repeatedly emphasizes that there is no rush, that there is all the time, that the job guarantee period is just running and that work in progress for a legislative proposal that we adopt here in the First Chamber is not a problem. Surely it is much wiser for the House of Representatives to put down a bill that is finished with the First Chamber, especially if there is all the time for it, rather than saying that we are still working on it, that the bill is in progress and that we will finish the journey after the First Chamber has already dealt with it? If it's true that there's all the time, why don't you wait till it's done?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u18	I get the point. That's what the VVD group made. An important reason to deal with this bill now is that the House of Representatives should clarify the target groups we are talking about. That is why we came up with an amendment yesterday and that we included, for example, the highly educated, precisely in order to reflect what we are going to do with this law in terms of target groups. That is why we can now support the proposal. However, I agree with Mr Heerma that the legislative proposal is not yet entirely perfect. There are still some things to be improved, but this is the balance that we have made. I think that's why we can deal with the bill now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u19	"Not quite perfect yet" is an understatement, but okay. Why does Mr Potters not convert his amendment for automatic shutdown after one year into what is in his and Mr Kerstens' motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u20	That question has already been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u21	I think that question was literally asked by Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u22	Excuse me, I've missed that for a moment. I would like to hear the answer briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u23	With all due respect, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u24	Then I'll ask my follow-up question right away. Is that because the VVD group doesn't get the space from the PvdA group, because they've been dealing and wheeling for days to come to terms with this bill, which is so missing, and to get out of it? Isn't that just the reason: stuff between coalition partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u25	I always like getting Mrs Karbulut's world view with me, but I think it's very simple. We had an exchange of views yesterday on the amendment I tabled. It has also been pointed out that the proposal may soon become a flashing light and that it is useful to keep that period a little longer. I thought that was a good argument. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution about a period of three years instead of every year. I also asked the Secretary of State if we could introduce this immediately. A few minor technical adjustments are needed. We'll put that in. My question is whether this can be included in the next technical review of the bqa law at the beginning of next year. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u26	I note that the PvdA Group has gone a long way with the VVD Group on this point. She is not even able to realise the part of her election programme, the introduction of a quota. I am very sorry about that and I am very pleased that Mr Potter is taking some account of his coalition partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u27	I always try to take as much account as possible of my coalition partner. I'm at the end of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u28	Not quite, because Mr Van Weyenberg has one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u29	For the sake of the debate, I understand that now or later Mr Potter will withdraw his amendment on deactivation because his motion is before us. I also assume that he will withdraw his motion on the target group now that there is another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u30	I am indeed considering withdrawing the amendment on deactivation in response to the State Secretary's replies. That can only be done after tonight, I understand. I'd also like to await the Secretary of State's response. The motion on the target groups we have made and on which we have had an exchange of views contains a number of very crucial considerations. I would like to take a look at the progress of the debate. Then perhaps I'll consider withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. We had a long debate yesterday. A lot has been said about the desire to achieve a more inclusive labour market. Of course, most of the talk has been made about the quota law. A law that, as the Secretary of State always says, is behind the door of the job agreements in front of the cabinet. However, I did not cast any doubt on that stick in the debate. Doubts, also at the heart of the matter, about the desirability of giving employers a place under penalty of a fine. And doubts about whether you should do it to people to get into a workplace because the employer had the thought of avoiding a fine. I have also expressed doubts, which I still have about whether the stick does not bring with it the wrong incentives. It is up to employers to go for that fine and therefore to do nothing more. Or incentives to engage in evasive behaviour in order not to be fined according to the rules of the law but to display behaviour that does not lead to an inclusive labour market, but to focus solely on the rules of the law. My plea was to choose the root instead of the stick. That is an approach that most groups in this House and also the Secretary of State do not share. They do not choose either or but en-and, as the Secretary of State said. Mr Van Ojik even indicated that he thought my plea was naive. That's a title I'm wearing in this case as a glorious title. For my group would still like to opt for that root, for positive incentives rather than for this quota, with the negative incentives in it to avoid or accept a fine. But I am also pleased that, apart from this fundamental difference of opinion, many groups have spoken of positive incentives to achieve that more inclusive labour market. I am also thinking of combating repression, the subject of broadening the target group, which I believe has been a cause for concern in this House over the last few months and which has been the subject of a motion for a resolution but which is now a broadly signed amendment. There has been a lot of talk, also by me, about a Performance ladder Socialer Entrepreneurship and the desire to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Potters, on the previous point, I assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u33	In your plea for a positive incentive for the root, I support you, in principle. I think that's a good plea. We should certainly assume that. Now, with the motion on the deactivation button, I have at least incorporated a positive stimulus into the law, as you also point out. At the moment when employers simply keep their end of the bargain, I assume that you are behind the 125,000 job deal, we should be able to extradite the law as well. May I assume you're going to support this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u34	I blamed Mr Potters yesterday for looking for a creative way to make his motion on offer. I think he's doing that again now. He's found another way, I'll give him that, but that motion is not a positive incentive. This motion is about the possibility of a quota once introduced being re-exploited. This has nothing to do with positive incentives. My plea was to choose an alternative to that negative incentive, for that stick that beats away instead of luring somewhere. I still have to think about this motion. Mr Van Weyenberg also mentioned this just in the event of an interruption. The question here is not to turn such a quota, which Mr Potters is in favour of, or at least to support, a flashing light and thereby to lighten the balance. So I really have to think about this, but I do not agree with the summary that this motion is an expression of the positive incentives I am advocating. I have the feeling that Mr Potters himself understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u35	I understand the plea very well, but we are now dealing with the quota law, with a good chance that it will be adopted. We also have an opportunity to build in a positive incentive, namely by extending the law if employers just stick to the agreements. Actually, that question has been asked. I don't want to take anything away from your plea; I think that's a fine plea that I'm underlining too. But this is just a question, because it partly matches the story you're telling.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u36	I can count. It also became clear in the WHO that there is a good chance that this law will be passed. I can therefore endorse the first part of Mr Potters' second question. I repeat, this motion is not a positive one. Positive incentives are aimed at encouraging employers to offer people a chance on the labour market for positive reasons at the time of the job guarantee. This motion has nothing to do with that. I understand the intention of Mr Potters to table his motion. However, I fear that until the time when we are going to vote I must keep him in suspense about what I am doing with the motion, because I really need to think about it. There has been a great deal of talk about passing on the quota, as I call it. There has been an amendment to the law which allows for the inclusion of loans and postings. In my view, there were many positive words about this yesterday by the Chamber. However, there has also been a lot of discussion as to why the reduction of services could not be done and why this is problematic. In my view, the Secretary of State has indeed expressed the concerns that the Chamber sees. In yesterday's debate, I said that I too have these concerns. Widely in the Chamber there is a desire to do something on this point too, because otherwise we might give the signal that we are going to destimulate the positive that companies are doing to house their cleaning or catering in a social enterprise. This would lead to companies going to the cheapest instead of the socialists. Widely in the Chamber there is concern about that. In order to express that concern, but also because in the Chamber, at least in my group and some other groups, there is a feeling that there is a solution to the problem outlined by the Secretary of State, both in terms of complexity and prevention of abuse, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is possible to include the quota with the user contracting party in the case of loan and secondment;]] [[noting that this is not possible when there is a decline in services such as catering or cleaning;]] [[Whereas implementation here is complex and should be avoided;]] [[Furthermore, considering that possible abuse can be avoided, for example, by limiting the possibilities to social enterprises;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the transfer of quota can be made possible when taking out services, if this is done in the case of a social enterprise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Kerstens, Mr Potters, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Schouten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. In three weeks it will be 1 January and the Participation Act will enter into force. Through this law, we aim to help those who, like you and I, want to move forward with and through their work in their lives but just a little more, or a lot more, to help them, so that they are more likely to participate in our society and in our labour market. That is important, because work, a job, is more than once a month a paycheck and the corresponding salary received. It also means structure in your life, getting in touch, learning, developing yourself, getting involved, getting involved. In addition, it is no longer the stamp that you have Wajanger, WSW'er or welfare beneficiary, but who you are, what you can do, what you do yourself, what you want and what it takes to get there. That's pure profit. I have already said yesterday that in its role as an employer, employers and the government have committed themselves to the objective of the law: to give people who are remote from the labour market opportunities in business or government. As a result, the employers agreed with the cabinet and trade unions in the social agreement concluded last year, at least 125,000 additional jobs are available for people with a distance from the labour market, who can be colleagues again between colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mrs Karabulut, I had Mr Kerstens finish this subject. I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u39	Of course, Mr. Chairman. You're right. But I'm almost out of my mind about Mr. Kerstens' little wiggle. I find it really shocking that Mr Kerstens is shamelessly saying time and time again that he makes no distinction, that the labels are gone, that all the disabled are getting a job and that they are getting better. I would like to present the following facts to Mr Kerstens. Is it true that one disabled person is eligible for a job next year, but the other is not? Is it true that beneficiaries are cut back on their income? Is it true that the people with temporary contracts in the social services are now being dismissed?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u40	I think Mrs Karabulut is aware of the efforts I am making and which many people are making with me to convert temporary employment contracts into permanent employment as much as possible. I think Mrs Karabulut has also been told that this week it has been decided that in East Groningen people who are now in temporary employment can look forward to a permanent contract. This is one of the most difficult areas when it comes to getting people from a distance from the labour market to work. This has been done thanks to written questions that I have put to the Secretary of State and thanks to the clarity that has emerged about the financial effects for municipalities. No, this law is not going to help anyone with a distance from the labour market. I never said that. But if we succeed in achieving the 125,000 jobs agreed in the social agreement, then there is a small revolution in the labour market. I'm just speaking to one of the chief executives of the FNV. Then 125,000 people are no longer dependent on a benefit, but they are going to earn a salary. Then 125,000 people will participate fully in the way they prefer to participate, and on which we, too, would like to see you, I hope, participate. With work, in a job, for a decent salary. That is what this law brings about, and I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u41	Really, those chief executives, whoever they are, it's gonna suck! I am concerned with the 500 000 people who are very remote from the labour market and a restriction. You're short on income. You close social workshops and make them a death home. There hasn't been one job realized yet. Then you come up with an arrangement to perfect all this. You are performing it in order to distinguish and exclude disabled people from the labour market. I would like to call on Mr Kerstens to step out of his cocoon, out of his own world, and to show a little more modesty and humility. I know Mr Kerstens likes to make dirty hands, but it's starting to stink.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u42	Let me first say something about stinking hands. You can also leave your hands in your pockets and at most take them out to point to others who do take their responsibility and who do make the difference. I haven't seen the SP's plan yet that those 500,000 people are gonna get to work. I am defending a law that has been established in a way that is already unique in itself. You can be obnoxious about the people of the trade union movement. I'm from there. I know that these people also stand for improving the chances of people who need help from others. They are, for example, people with a distance from the labour market. The one who said to me that this is a small revolution in the labour market is the one who made these agreements in the social agreement and who himself believes in it. This law is really gonna get a lot more people working than the SP doesn't have.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mrs Karabulut, you may make a personal statement, but then it must really be a personal statement, because we are interrupting in two. You challenge each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u44	I know; this debate is also a bit for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u45	A personal fact? Or a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u46	Yes, if Mr Kerstens reads our election programme, he will see how we want to invest in people rather than in cuts. I want Mr. Christmas...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u47	No, no, no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u48	I would like to draw Mr Kerstens' attention to the current unemployment figures. They say enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u49	This is an entrapment. That's not part of making a personal statement. The personal fact that Mrs Karabulut states is that she does indeed have a plan. This is in the election program. Please continue with your speech, Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u50	I didn't realize I provoked anything, but okay. At this time, when unemployment is falling before the sixth month in a row, it is a gain that employers take responsibility for recognising that social responsibility goes beyond giving Max Havelaar coffee and using recycled paper. The Labour Party is, of course, happy to help employers to take that social responsibility, to fulfil the agreement they themselves made in the social agreement in the coming years and to make it possible for employers to actually help people from a distance to the labour market, for example by ensuring that employers no longer have to go through four counters, five meters of paper or six well-meaning employers' consultants with a bucket of people they don't know. And yes, with the law we are discussing yesterday and today, the Jobs Agreement and Labour Quota Act, commonly referred to as the quota law, we are also helping employers if they do not comply with the agreement they have made. We do this with a legal obligation, with a fine and with more jobs to be created as a stick behind the door. The latter we realized yesterday: more jobs for more people. At least 125,000 jobs for people who cannot earn the minimum wage on their own, and jobs on top of that for those who can, without crowding each other out, because in that case employers will have to create more jobs. The Labour Party welcomes that. That is what we have always argued for. The PvdA is also pleased with a number of other commitments made yesterday by the Secretary of State. For example, a figurehead, an appealing person, who can start pulling and pulling to make sure that these jobs are actually made available to the government. I welcome the commitment that the Secretary of State will keep his finger on the flow to paid work of people who are now on the waiting list for social services and of Wajangers who are fully or partially fit for work. After all, we gave them priority in fulfilling these new jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u51	As the President said, the debate is also easy to follow at home. That's important. I therefore attach great importance to a number of things here. I believe that we also agreed yesterday that the 125,000 jobs from the agreement on the job agreement remain unchanged. From what Mr Kerstens has said, I have a bit of a suggestion that this is going to change and that the social agreement is going to go down, but that, I think, is not the intention of Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Potters. That is not the intention. You know me. I'm a fan of social partners and I'm not gonna ride them in the wheels. The job deal that's been made stays intact. I spoke in my speech about the hand that we are going to help employers if they can't make that job deal happen or they want to make it happen. When the quota, the legal obligation, enters into force, there is not only a legal obligation, but also a fine if one fails to meet that obligation and more jobs, because we have agreed that broadening the target group should not lead to displacement of the original target group, because those are really the weakest people who cannot earn the minimum wage on their own. I also welcome the fact that the Secretary of State is also of the opinion that she would like to strengthen herself in what she herself calls "the bosom of the cabinet', which, in the forthcoming tax review, which will have to reduce the burden on labour, will also pay particular attention to promoting social enterprise. The Secretary of State knows that Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union and I want something more. Mrs Schouten will also be tabling a motion on behalf of me on this matter in a moment. I myself will table two motions. The first relates to the monitoring of collective agreements and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the April 2013 Social Agreement agreed by the Cabinet and the social partners that at least 125,000 additional jobs would be created in the coming years for people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas it is obvious that trade unions and employers should translate this agreement into, inter alia, collective agreements concluded by them;]] [[Considers that active monitoring will have a positive impact on making such agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with an annual review of the number of collective agreements on the employment of people with disabilities and their nature from 2015 onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u53	I announced that I would table two motions. This is the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas broad commitment to a performance ladder of social entrepreneurship has a positive impact on the labour market opportunities of people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas the functioning of a performance ladder is enhanced if a good performance has an impact on public procurement and SROI (Social Return On Investment) provisions;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with employers, employees and interested parties, to consider ways of promoting the creation of a broad performance ladder of social enterprise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Schouten and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr Potters and Mr Heerma have already tabled a number of motions on behalf of the PvdA. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Schouten will be speaking after me. They will also table a number of motions on behalf of the PvdA. Mr Van Weyenberg on the monitoring of the employment agreement, Mrs Schouten on tax incentives for social enterprises and Mr Van Ojik on the level of the quota levy. I should like to thank the Secretary of State, not only for the answers she gave yesterday, but also for the willingness she showed to improve this law, which was actually already in the electoral programme of my party, the Labour Party, and then in the coalition agreement. The law will contribute even more to the goal that we all want to achieve, namely to help people who distance themselves from the labour market to participate in the labour market as colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief in this round of plenary sessions. Everything was said yesterday during the extensive legislative consultation on this law The PVV never wanted this quota law because it thinks it is a socialist thing. The economy should be driven by lower charges, lower excise duties, lower VAT and not that silly energy tax for so-called sustainability et cetera, et cetera. The money has to go back to the people in the country, so they'll have more. We have shown in our 2012 election programme that this solution is the best solution for the economy, that is to say for consumers who have more left and thus for the job engine that companies should be and can be. But this government is in the way of consumers and businesses with enormous burdens. The PVV says: stimulate the economy by reducing the burden, then the WSW can be maintained and we create a starting point that is also very good or remains good for the disabled. It is precisely with the fundamentally wrong choices of this cabinet that the opposite happens. In our view, with the earlier Act of Participation and this quota law, the companies are the losers, the disabled, the regular unemployed because of displacement and ultimately also the consumer and thus the economy. That is why we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. This law provides for the possibility of introducing a quota if the 125,000 additional jobs for people with disabilities are not achieved. In doing so, we are following a path which we really hope will never have to enter into force because, together with the trade unions, employers are able to create these 125,000 extra places for people with disabilities who are doing their stinking best to find a job. The government has a big task in this too. However, my group believes that the stick behind the door in this law is sensible. It is a heavy but justified means. However, there is a big bone in the throat and that is a new fence that means that people who could earn the minimum wage with support no longer count for the quota. I am talking about people who are blind or hearing impaired or people who need guidance in the workplace. It was nice that the coalition considered a motion, but that was still ultimate future music. I am extremely pleased that there is now a broad-based amendment, which must provide certainty for all those people.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They will simply count and not catch up if the quota enters into force. I'm very happy about that. It remains important to monitor the position of people who can earn the minimum wage with support in the coming years. Because they will soon be included in a quota, we expect employers not only not to fire them, but also to do their utmost to adopt them. It seems to me appropriate to keep the finger on the wrist there, and for that reason I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the target population of the quota is extended to people with disabilities who can earn the statutory minimum wage by means of a provision;]] [[noting that this group also has a vulnerable position on the labour market;]] [[Whereas the extension of the quota target group should also improve the labour market position of this group at the time of the employment agreement;]] [[calls on the government to monitor whether the total number of jobs for this group of people is indeed increasing and to inform the Chamber annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Kerstens, Mr Potters, Mr Schouten and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u57	Yesterday we discussed in detail the way in which we want to deal with the hiring of services. I am not talking about giving Max Havelaar coffee, but about allowing catering or cleaning in a tender to a company with the requirement that a quarter or half of the work is done by people with disabilities. In the current legislative proposal, however, this does not count in such a company and that is a problem. I agree with the Secretary of State that this is complicated and that we need to look very closely at how this should be designed. It must also be enforceable for the Tax Administration. All this understanding, but we must do our utmost to find a solution to this, because I believe that this will provide an additional incentive to hire such services so that more people with disabilities can have a chance on the labour market. For this reason, I have wholeheartedly endorsed Mr Heerma's motion, so that we do not only borrow and post, but also make arrangements for the hiring of services from companies that shape this in the full form of social responsibility. With the same enthusiasm, I have co-signed the two motions which Mr Kerstens has read out, one on the performance ladder and its further development, and the other on monitoring collective agreements on the provision of opportunities for people with disabilities. I think that a very nice addition to the previously promised annual monitoring by the Cabinet of the extent to which collective agreements also open up the lowest pay scales, as agreed in the case of the Participation Act. I have repeatedly expressed my concern yesterday about the time limit for someone to remain on the register if they are developing. Because of the job deal, you count as long as you can't earn the minimum wage on your own. If you develop with the help of your employer by investing in yourself and you suddenly can, that is of course fantastic, but suddenly you don't count for the employer anymore. That could lead to a very wrong incentive. That's why the Secretary of State has arranged for you to count for a maximum of three years after that moment, but I still have concerns about that term. Is he gonna be long enough? I am not making a motion, because I do not know whether it should be four or five years. I find it very difficult to put a number on that. The concern is not gone with me, however. In view of the fact that a number of things are still being worked out in this proposal, I would ask the Secretary of State to look very carefully at whether this period is really long enough to make it attractive for all parties involved to invest in the development of people. We all want the latter. Both Mrs Schouten and I asked questions yesterday about the revenue from the quota levy, if it ever came. We got a response from the Secretary of State this morning. Thank you for that, by the way, also to the staff of the Secretary of State. We did receive the letter before noon. It refers to a previously adopted motion of D66 on additional financial returns. In my opinion, the Chamber should play a very explicit role in this. Mrs Schouten will give a different explanation of the amendment she has tabled on my behalf. Furthermore, it is of course also crucial that people's supply is transparent for employers who want to give someone with disabilities a chance. The Secretary of State told us yesterday that she is still busy implementing the motion of VVD and D66, which I think was supported by approximately Chamberwide. However, I hear her particularly mention the regular parties, such as UWV and municipalities. They are important, but there are also nice new initiatives, for example Unlimited at the Battle. There it is possible to get the matches going through customization, where people participate themselves. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State not to forget such initiatives when drawing up this motion. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering yesterday's questions and also for those of you in a moment. A law is now coming into force which, as far as I am concerned, is working as a stick behind the door and which also gives people who can earn more than a minimum wage a good chance. However, I hope that we do not need that quota and that in a number of years that 125,000 additional jobs have actually been created.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. The quota law provides for maximum efforts to ensure that people who are distanced from the labour market are given a fair chance of getting a job. I already told you yesterday that I don't think you're gonna realize that by just putting in a law. The point is that we are together, I mean not only the Chamber, but also society and the employers, so that we can see how we can get an inclusive labour market. That will require more than a quota bill. This also requires a change of attitude and perhaps also a different way of looking at people. The quota law was not in our electoral programme, but I am convinced that there are elements in it that can boost this change of mentality, that different ways of working and looking at people. Then the question is indeed: "The metaphor has come by more often." "Whether you do it with a carrot or with a stick." This law is, however you turn it or turn it, of course first a stick. I think we should look for the combination of carrot and stick. That is why I will put forward a proposal for this later. The concern that lived very badly under this law was whether that target group is not too restrictive for those who are just above that statutory minimum wage. We were all outside yesterday in an action by people who were afraid of falling out of the boat. That's, I think, an effect we don't want. That is why I have signed it together with Mr Van Weyenberg and others, as I understand it, tabled an amendment to broaden the target group. I hope that the Secretary of State will see this point and that she will give more space to that group. I have heard all of her reactions to Mr Potters' and Mr Kerstens' motion and I assume that this will work. But I'd love to hear that later. We also had our concerns about the use, posting and all the other forms there are to offer people a chance of a job, but perhaps not necessarily to have them join the company itself. I think it is very important that we ensure that the social enterprises that do so are not discouraged and that these people can be included in the quota. That is why I have co-signed a motion by Mr Heerma asking for this to be done. I have also talked about the indication circus, which really irritates me. People who are already familiar with many indications have to go back to the UWV, sometimes twice or three times, with the resulting costs, also for the municipalities that will have to pay for it. It just discourages you. That stamp again, that whole circus hanging around it. That is why I have tabled an amendment to meet this. I tabled a motion earlier in the budget debate to try to streamline and merge the number of indications. But I think it is also necessary to lay down the legal basis in this law, so that those other indications are sufficient to start working with the target group in the near future. I leave the State Secretary the room to determine which indications that might be, and I ask in the motion for a resolution to clarify that before March, but I believe that we should already create that legal hook, because otherwise it doesn't exist. That is why I have tabled an amendment to make this possible in the case of General Measure of Management. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State on this point. I come to the point of the fine, or let me call it the levy. What is the tax going to be spent on: benefits or perhaps the reintegration of this target group? We had a good debate on that yesterday. We also received a letter from the Secretary of State. She says that in Article 118 Wfsv, the Social Insurance Finance Act, there is already a ban on the motion by Mr Van Weyenberg, among others. It states: "General Measure of Management may lay down detailed rules on the use of the levy'. I want us, as a Chamber, to judge for ourselves what that commitment is like. If it says "can," it depends on the Secretary of State if she wants to draft the AMvB. I think it is a good thing that the AMvB is drafted when the law comes into effect. This is not about what is in it, because that is the subject of the political debate so that we ourselves as a Chamber can have that discussion again. Therefore, the wording "may further rules be laid down" will be replaced by "detailed rules". I have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. Of course, all this is under the premise that the entire AMvB is being hung when it enters. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect; we must all form a whole. That amendment was co-signed by Mrs Karabulut. Mr Potters has just said that he also supports this amendment. Its signature will be modified. I told you, not only the stick, but also the root. We would like the companies that are already doing very well on this point to be rewarded for their good behaviour. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the employment agreement and quota tax bill does not provide positive incentives for employers employing people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas social enterprises make a useful contribution to the participation of people with disabilities;]] [[considers that positive financial incentives for social enterprises can contribute to a further increase in the participation of people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the government, both now and in the review of the tax system, to consider the possibilities for tax rewarding social enterprises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouten and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u59	I think Mrs Schouten is at the end of her contribution, isn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u60	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u61	Oh, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u62	All I have to say is that I have a final remark to which many have already concluded. I actually hope that is very strange, because I think that I am saying this for the first time about a law that I do support and that this law will never come into force. That would mean that as a society we really have made a battle and that many people who are still on the sidelines will soon have a chance of getting a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u63	Together with Mrs Schouten, I have fought to make this law better. Mostly at the point of the borrowers we have built together. We have said: it is not useful if municipalities have to pay an amount of €810 to the UWV in connection with indications. In this way, we have fought best together to improve this law in our own opinion. I have one more point. Mrs Schouten rightly spoke yesterday about the root. I understand that plea very well. I have tabled a motion to postpone the law if it turns out that companies are simply complying with the agreements, so that even the smaller entrepreneurs are not burdened with such a decision every year and may or may not be charged. Would Mrs Schouten perhaps be able to work with me on this part as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u64	I expected this question, because Mr Potters asked me the same question yesterday. He was right to say that he would come back to it today, no matter what he's doing now. I see the intention of the motion and believe, as I said to him earlier, in the combination of the positive and the punishment if it really is not going well. I support this motion under the heading of "rewarding good behavior." I still have to discuss it with my group and I cannot be sure yet. I'll take a positive look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you for your answers and your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, as the last speaker on behalf of the Chamber during this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday's debate has brought clarity and progress on a number of points. Colleagues have already referred to the wide-ranging amendment which regulates that should the quota enter into force unexpectedly, at least in this way I shall say it once more that the target group will be widened. This will reduce labour market displacement. For my group, it is important that the amendment also provides for an increase in the number of jobs to be created for this target group if the target group is to be increased. It is only in this way that we can guarantee that the original target group, which has been hit so hard by the Act of Participation and the dismantling of the social workshops, will not be excluded. My group is therefore happy to endorse this amendment. By the way, this has not removed all our concerns about the law. My group is still unclear, despite what the Secretary of State said yesterday, about the consultation between municipalities and social partners in which, if the employment agreement is not reached, it will be examined whether the quota law will actually enter into force. In the WHO, I quoted from the reply to our written input, which lists some factors that could lead to the quota law not being implemented, even though the job agreement is not being implemented. These categories are very broad, and I also said this yesterday: the economic situation, supply and demand in the regional labour market and so on. The intention is that if this job agreement is not achieved, the quota will be introduced and not that there will be a wide range of excuses, which could prevent it. It would be a good thing if the Secretary of State, if she would do me a favor, responded a little more precisely and indicated how she would avoid using these very broad categories as an excuse not to introduce the quota in the end. In order to make the law before us more effective on a number of points, my group has tabled two amendments. An amendment provides for the levy to be charged per unfilled job if an employer fails to do so for several years. Or, to put it at home, that many-timers are actually going to pay more than the employer who occasionally, for whatever reason, doesn't make it through the quota once. We have proposed in that amendment that the amount of the levy should be increased as the quota is not achieved several times. The proposal is to regulate that in the law. My group's second amendment makes it clear to everyone which employers have taken their social responsibility and which they have not. In concrete terms, the amendment provides that employers covered by the quota law must include in their annual report whether or not they were charged a levy under the quota law in that year covered by the annual report. If so, they can explain why they have not been able to meet the job agreement. If it isn't, they can say proudly that it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u67	The idea of transparency appeals to me. Does Mr Van Ojik read the current law in such a way that the Secretary of State will publish a list of all companies that have been charged such a levy? As far as I am concerned, this could also contribute. I do not read that in the amendment. Is this because Mr Van Ojik does not agree or because he assumes that this will actually be done by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u68	The amendment indeed regulates that the information on compliance or compliance with the obligation is transparent and available to everyone in the annual report. What Mr Van Weyenberg is proposing now seems to me to be an excellent addition to that. If we have all this information in the annual reports later, the average interested party might not be looking at all these annual reports to see to what extent the agreements are being complied with, but that aggregate communication on this by the public authorities would be very welcome. It is true that this is not covered by the amendment, but the idea of asking the Secretary of State to publish such a list is very appealing to me. I don't know how we're gonna do that. Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg has an idea about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u69	I hope that the Secretary of State, in her response to the amendment, will also address the question of whether she was already planning to do so, and if not, whether she is going to do so. If she says that she would, but that the law does not provide for it, then perhaps Mr Van Ojik and I can see if we can think of anything before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u70	That invitation may not be necessary at all, depending on the answer given by the Secretary of State, but I am happy to accept it. That is to explain my two amendments. In conclusion, I would like to return to the question of the fine. Yesterday, there was a lot of discussion in the debate about the fear of the entry into force of that quota. The amount of the levy, which is €5,000, is not very scientifically defined. You can't. Perhaps these employers would rather pay the tax. In case that situation arises, which we do not hope, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of the Jobs Agreement and Job Quota Act is to encourage employers to employ more people with disabilities;]] [[Considering that it should be prudent and economically more profitable for employers to employ people with disabilities than to pay the levy annually;]] [[Whereas, should it become apparent that there are not enough jobs to be filled, the levy should be increased in order to further stimulate the economic balance of the employer;]] [[calls on the government to increase the levy when it becomes clear that employers are largely deciding to pay the levy and not hire people from the target group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Ojik and Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33981-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u71	Could Mr Van Ojik explain the relationship between this motion and his sympathetic amendment as far as I am concerned? It increases the fine when employers pay the fine year after year. Is the motion intended as a supplement or does Mr Van Ojik think that the amendment is not going to make it and is this the rescue buoy?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr Van Weyenberg knows that we will vote on the amendments first on Tuesday and then on the legislative proposal. If my amendment is adopted, which, of course, I fervently hope, it will regulate something that is requested in the motion for a resolution to the cabinet. If his conclusion is that the adoption of the amendment could very well lead us to withdraw the motion, that is correct, but I must then discuss it with my co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u73	I assume that the co-author of the motion will also support the amendment. Then perhaps it is not going to happen what Mr Van Ojik is a little afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u74	That is a question which Mr Van Weyenberg may ask me, but I cannot answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u75	In the written round on this bill, several groups, including those of the CDA, asked questions about the risk of companies setting up e.g. structures or splitting up into multiple companies in order to avoid any fines. The government's answer was: it can be technically, but we do not expect this to happen, because the fine is not high enough to go into this kind of evasive construction. Is Mr Van Ojik not afraid that with his tough-sounding amendment and motion, this kind of evasive behaviour, which the Secretary of State has confirmed could lead to an inclusive labour market in theory, he is going to stimulate quite different behavior than positive behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u76	Let me begin by saying that the amendment and the motion aim at two different things. The aim of the amendment is to prevent employers from making a habit of paying the levy, to put it simply, and not complying with what is laid down in the employment agreement. The motion states that if it turns out that this is going to happen, which of course we do not hope, you must ensure that you have a sanction, namely the lifting of the fine. I must honestly say, in reply to Mr Heerma's question, that I do not know any research, but that may be up to me, which would indicate that there is a direct relationship between the evasive behaviour that might occur and the level of the fine. I did not, therefore, accept this amendment and the motion and did not take it into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u77	I would like to thank Mr Van Ojik for explaining the amendment and the motion. If I follow what Mr Van Ojik says, I think that the motion is less risky, because it says that if something happens, then look at it again. If Mr Van Ojik says in relation to the amendment that he has not thought about it, it might be good to reconsider the amendment before the vote and also read the written answers. The cabinet clearly indicates that there are opportunities to split a company, that this may be a way to avoid a fine, but that the probability of this happening is rather small because the fine is not high enough. There are also costs involved in splitting up. In any case, I am not in favour of this stick; we had enough discussion yesterday. If, however, Mr Van Ojik is in favour of this stick and is tabling this amendment, does he not knowingly take the risk of encouraging even more negative behaviour, when he intends to prevent it? I'll ask him again.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u78	I understand and follow Mr Heerma's reasoning, but if you go through that reasoning, you should actually say that, as the chance of avoiding sanctions, fines and charges is greater, you should always lower it, whether it is a traffic offence or a tax avoidance. Of course, that can never be the intention. The idea is that this tax is designed to discourage behaviour, which is considered undesirable not only by the legislator but also by the social partners. If there are false constructions or circumventions, you have to deal with them. That is my answer to Mr Heerma. You should not try to prevent or stimulate cases by the amount of a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u80	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I was ready. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the way she answered all the questions yesterday. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the whole debate, but of course I followed her response very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mrs Schouten has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u82	I do have a service announcement. I forgot to mention that I have the amendment to item No. 19 wants to move in.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u83	The Schouten amendment (Doc. 19) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u84	I shall reopen the sitting and give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs to answer the questions put and to reply to the motions for resolutions tabled and to the amendments which have not yet been commented on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr. Chairman. Again, for the third time, I thank the members of the Chamber for their input. It is good that all the spokesmen have said that this legislation is mainly about helping people who are not fully self-sufficient in the labour market to enter that labour market. They have also said that it is a great thing that employers now say: come on, because we are going to create jobs for these people. One does something different than the other, but that is the spirit of the debate. That's just nice. I think we all agree on that. And how do you do that? That is what this debate is about, of course. I understand that the root and the stick are both named and that one is a little more enthusiastic than the other. Although, of course, we're all excited about roots. One spokesperson says that a stick is not wrong either, while the other says that he can actually spare that stick. That's how angles can be. I think that and-and still is a good plan. I just see that because that stick was reflected in the coalition agreement, entrepreneurs have just started to act a little more enthusiastically, also at the table of the social agreement. We now have those jobs to thank for that. Before I really go into the speeches of all the spokesmen very widely again, I shall first, for the sake of clarity, pass the motions. We had a rather enthusiastic debate yesterday in two terms. So I'll just start with the motions. There are still a few questions left. I will answer that at the end of the debate. I shall therefore deal first with the motions, then with the amendments and finally with some questions. Mrs Karabulut asked the government in her motion for a resolution on item No. 29 to come up with a job plan that does not exclude anyone in consultation with the social partners. I advise against this motion, because there is already a job plan. This is just a job plan. There's no reason to renegotiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u86	Is it true that the Secretary of State does not deny that the existing job plan does exclude people?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u87	We had a rather intensive exchange of views on this matter yesterday. Further on in my speech I am sure to speak about the target group. I went into this in detail in the second period. I think that we have come out well together. These 125,000 guarantee jobs are for people who cannot earn a minimum wage on their own, who come from the Wajong or who are on SW companies' waiting lists. We have now all agreed that if the quota is introduced, those who can earn their own minimum wage, with a restriction and with an instrument, then they can also enter additional jobs. So it's actually a win-win-win situation for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u88	With all due respect, it's one big bullshit story. First of all, there are no jobs. Secondly, groups are indeed excluded. Thirdly, there are now some 500,000 people with disabilities who are looking for a job. Fourthly, what is possible will only come into effect in 2017. I would like the Secretary of State at least to mention this, as well as the point that she is reducing 70,000 existing contracts and certain contracts in the social employment sector. That would be a credit to the Secretary of State. I'd still have some sympathy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u89	The fact remains that the first 8,000 guarantee jobs will appear in this way as from 1 January 2015. That's where the distinguished people can go. That's a big good. I think that this is a job plan of great importance, also because it then adds up to 125,000 jobs in both the market and the public authorities in the following years. I think the people involved are particularly pleased about that. In the motion in part No. 30 by Ms Karabulut, the government is invited to come forward with rules to exclude displacement on entry into force of the quota regime by the summer of 2015. I've just gone into that. In dissuade this motion, because employers do not dismiss workers who function properly. We spoke very firmly about this yesterday. Jobs for the target group are often new jobs to be created. In this way, there is no question of repression.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u90	I assume that the Secretary of State is aware that there are now quite some problems in the country because of the high level of unemployment and the high level of competition in the labour market and that there is already some form of displacement. I do not think that the Secretary of State can deny that there is a danger that it will become stronger, not only because of this bill, but also because of the circumstances. If the Secretary of State says he wants to prevent this, what is against developing a test and further rules for this? That doesn't have to be right away, but the Secretary of State can work on that. This would make a lot of people very happy, and that would be good for both employers and job seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u91	Only recently, the Minister for Social Affairs sent a letter to the Chamber on the phenomenon of displacement. Of course, we have talked about it many times. Looking at displacement in this context, I sincerely believe that new jobs are being created in which these people can find their way through additional work and, for example, reshoring, which Mr Kerstens often brings to the attention of the public. Furthermore, there was not for nothing so wide-ranging discussion yesterday that people who can earn a minimum wage on their own and have a limit, but who can simply work with a tool, will not have to be thrown out by their employer because they would be afraid that the man or woman would not count for the quota. So that's out of the question. In fact, the proposal has been improved on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u92	This is just ostrich politics, isn't it? The Secretary of State wants, and is convinced, that this will not happen, but I would very much like to be able to control it. I'm also testing it against current practice. I would very much like Mr Kerstens's and the Secretary of State's plan to succeed and that we will get a lot of jobs here, but the Secretary of State also knows that this is not so easy. In fact, we've recently seen another company do away with jobs abroad. Once again, if the Secretary of State wants some security and decent jobs, fair jobs for disabled people, it will not escape at least a control tool so that it can prove that it is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u93	It's not really a question, but I'd still like to go into it. The most important thing is that these people can now also work in a full-time job, with full-time pay under a full-time collective agreement. I can't imagine Mrs Karabulut doesn't think so; I know she does. I think that's such a great thing. I therefore also believe that these people should be given priority. It's about time. We have had the debate on displacement on many occasions, but in this context it is not the case, I would almost say. I'm at the motion in part No. 31 by Mrs Karabulut. It calls on the government to agree with social partners and regional work companies to actively encourage companies with fewer than 25 employees to recruit people from the target register. That is in itself what is already happening and what we will certainly continue to do with great commitment. The same applies to regional work companies. So it's actually an unnecessary motion, which I should be dissuading from doing so. After all, employers with fewer than 25 employees are covered by the employment agreement and the provisions for the target group apply to each employer, both large and small.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u94	In this sense, the Secretary of State could therefore explain the motion in support of policy, but of course she is speaking about her own opinions. It is not the case that small employers can also participate in that target group register. My proposal is to do so now, which also gives them extra attention and stimulates additional jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u95	To clarify perhaps a misunderstanding, the target group register is of course for the people who can get into the 125,000 guarantee jobs. These guarantee jobs can be created by all employers in the Netherlands, government and market, including self-employed workers with staff and smaller SMEs. But when it comes to quotas, which is, of course, the next stage, the larger workers are at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u96	Let me get this straight. Suppose a small employer, who is not covered by the quota, wants to employ a young disabled person. Can this then be entered in the register, so without the employee being delivered from the UWV, just to mention it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u97	In the register are the people involved. They can therefore contact any employer who makes a guarantee job. The size of that employer's company does not matter. The employer can therefore use all the attributes that matter, i.e. wage costs subsidies, workplace adjustment, no-riskpolis and mobility bonus. I hope that will resolve the misunderstanding. It is therefore really a question of ensuring that all employers are eligible for all the attributes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u98	This raises more questions. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u99	Yes, Mr President, because I do not want this ambiguity to exist. I understand that anyone who's in that register and who's going to work with an employer, big or small, is later included in that macro objective as long as there's a job deal. When we enter a quota world, the quota only counts for employers with more than 25 employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u100	Exactly. That's how we agreed. Then I'll move on to the motion in part number. 32 by Mrs Karabulut, in which the government is asked to oblige companies with more than 50 people to publish a social annual report explaining what has been done to employ people with disabilities. I would advise against this motion, because this is already covered in Article 31b of the Works Councils Act. I do not think it is necessary to have a publication, because it is mainly about the good conversation with the works council. Then I come to the motions on part No. 15 and 16, which I actually commented on yesterday, by Mr Potters and Mr Kerstens. I have already said of both motions that I leave the judgment to the Chamber. For the sake of clarity, I will stick to that. In the course of the debate or in the upshot, I see exactly what is happening with it. In the motion in part No. 33 by Mr Heerma c.s. the Government is invited to consider how the transfer of the quota can be made possible when taking out services if this is done in a social enterprise. Well, technically, I'm gonna have to dissuade this motion. I refer to this afternoon's debate on the results of the Elias Committee. I'm asking the Chamber not to complicate things too much. The inclusion of contracting has already been considered in the drafting of the legislative proposal. It requires a type of accounting and allocation that are disproportionate to the benefits. If requested in the motion in part No. 33 should be rebuilt. It is also incredibly complicated for the Tax Administration. It is worth considering whether the request is possible in the long term. I therefore ask the authors of the motion whether they can amend the relevant passage in the operative part of the motion so that it reads as follows: 'calls on the Government to consider whether and, if so, how the quota can be passed on'.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Heerma, a glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u102	I'm not gonna pick that up anyway. The broadly signed motion expresses a broad desire shared by the Chamber yesterday not to give an incentive to companies to behave inappropriately, as it will lead to an inclusive labour market. I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State yesterday, and I think my colleagues did the same. That is why we have taken into account both the concerns about complexity and practicability and the prevention of abuse, which the Secretary of State was also very clear about in the considerations of the motion. The words used in the operative part of the motion 'to see how', in my view, give the Secretary of State sufficient room to see how that can be done. We have not tabled an amendment, but a motion. We are also very consciously referring to social enterprises. Mr Kerstens has tabled a motion on the performance ladder for social enterprise. Companies on the second or third steps of that ladder constitute a specific selection of companies. The beauty is that there are already very heavy demands to climb that ladder. In this way, the implementation of the motion in part No. In our opinion, 33 have become less complex. After all, it is not all companies that are involved, but that specific selection of companies. Moreover, we are really encouraging companies to become a social enterprise. So I think the Secretary of State has a lot of room to carry out the motion. I hope that she will look again with positive glasses, with the positive intention from the Chamber and in conjunction with Mr Kerstens' motion, at our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u103	I think Mr Heerma's plea is very valid. Ed, of course, we have not forgotten how complicated it is if we want to dissipate this type of services under the quota for nothing. Over the past few months, I have seen how complicated it is to place the posting very carefully there. I believe that this is being done very carefully. This is a little more complicated than that. I very much like the content of the motion. I too, of course, want these jobs to be able to take shape. However, I see an incredible amount of hooks and eyes, because the matter is very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u104	I hear the Secretary of State very well. The wish from the Chamber is not to ask her to do the impossible. The broadly signed motion is intended to go a step further than we did yesterday in the debate. I will listen carefully to the State Secretary's assessment of the other related motions. Then I shall look very closely at the text of our motion. However, I do not want to give the Secretary of State a "or, if so, how" clause in order to be able to say too easily that it cannot be done. I think it is possible, especially if we look at the motion in conjunction with Mr Kerstens' motion on the performance ladder for social enterprise. Once again, I will listen carefully to the State Secretary's opinion on the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u105	No one wants to ask the Secretary of State to carry out an unexecutable motion anyway. I have a question for the Secretary of State. For the broadcasting sector, certain provisions have already been incorporated into the law. In the case of the temporary agency sector, too, a person is included in the company where he works and not in the temporary agency where he is employed. This seems to me, in principle, to be the same as, for example, outsourcing the cleaning to a company with a lot of people with disabilities, where in the motion in part No. Thirty-three is the case. Can the Secretary of State state explain why, in this case, it is very consistent in this respect, while in my view, if I understand the law correctly, good solutions have been found for the broadcasting sector? That's what's wrong with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u106	Just as practical: when you detach or broadcast, people really start working with you. You'll know the names and the numbers, because you know who they are. If you have people walking around through contract, the person you signed the contract with may, so to speak, come to you with another group of cleaners, caterers or whoever. That is the tricky thing about these people's "turfing," if I may say so unparliamentaryly. That's what makes it so difficult and complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u107	Then I see another opening, pointing out the examples mentioned by many of my colleagues and myself yesterday. Let me rephrase: we have a caterer here in this building and I am pleased to see many...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u108	I have to correct you: it's a cleaning company.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u109	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I was mistaken. We have a cleaning company here, but fortunately I see the same people on a regular basis, almost every day. I understand what the Secretary of State says, and I wouldn't want that either. Then it becomes unworkable. In my opinion, the question of the Chamber is: find something for companies that have become part of a business day in, day out, as I see, for example, the people of the cleaning business here. I thank the President once again for the correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u110	I understand this call, but I still have to say that it is really very complicated to map it out every day. Of course, I always want to find out everything, and I want to look into everything. For a large part that has already happened, because otherwise I would not say this. Anyway, when the Chamber calls me to look further, I never say no to that, of course. That's the way I am. However, I would like to do expectations management. The Chamber should not think that it would be a piece of cake, because it simply is not. The posting was complicated enough. That is why zero measurement also takes longer; that is something that everyone is always asking for. If we are going to put this on, as you are hanging things on the Christmas tree at this time, it will be very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u111	I see that, too. I think the solution is to offer people a contract. There is another lack of clarity in order to properly assess the motion. It is stated in the second part of the operative part "if this is done in the case of a social enterprise'. Can the Secretary of State explain what we mean by a "social enterprise"? As far as I know, we do not have formal laws or regulations to assess that. I think there is a great practical problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u112	I haven't gone into that yet. I have understood Mr Heerma correctly in the sense of "the ladder." You can find anything you want. I think Mrs Karabulut colors in just how complicated it is. This is step two. If you could solve step one, you should step two, what exactly is that social enterprise? Of course, label it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u113	I'm trying to make a bridge. I fully understand the Secretary of State when she says that we must be able to offer something that is also feasible. Ton Elias' committee made that point for a reason. What we do not want, let us be clear, is that it would not be easily measurable or that it would not be rewarded hours, as I said earlier, because we would not have a level playing field between companies that might register it properly and companies that register it less well. The Chamber doesn't want any of that. We just want a good insightal system. If that's impossible, it's impossible. That's not what we're asking. What I think the Chamber is asking is for a look at what could be done at this point: take a good look at that, see if companies that work in this way and make a very good contribution to the objective are not at a disadvantage because they happen not to be covered by a temporary agency. I think that's all the Chamber's asking. I understand that you want to discourage the motion, given that you do not want to create expectations, but I do not think that the motion is meant to ask of you the impossible. Maybe that's the bridge I can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u114	That would be an outstretched hand from the side of the Chamber. I understand that motion so that I inform the Chamber of all the ins and outs involved. That can also lead me to conclude that it really is not possible. Then I shall have to refer that to the Chamber too, and then the Chamber should not want it to. If I may understand it that way, I would of course like to dive deep into it to make the Chamber part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u115	It is not customary for a cabinet to say: we do not carry out a motion, but it can. That can also be substantiated. It remains to be seen that this motion calls for something that should be possible, given the limitation to social enterprises and the combination with the social performance ladder to which the Secretary of State rightly referred. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to explain the motion in this way. If the motion is passed, the Secretary of State will come back with a well-founded story. If it really isn't possible, then of course, as a Chamber, we're not going to ask the Secretary of State the impossible. However, I have the deep conviction that this is the way it can be done. I hope that, in conjunction with various other motions before us, we will be giving shape to Mr Kerstens' motion and Mrs Schouten's motion, that positive stimulus, that root, which I would prefer to see as an alternative, and doing our utmost to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u116	Then I understand Mr Heerma as the first signatory of the motion so that, if the cabinet really makes it clear whether and how this could be done, and if the cabinet is really discussing this very well with the Chamber... If I may read the motion in this way and if so also the word "or"... Again, I just want to be honest with the Chamber. If that's how I understand it, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr Heerma is not satisfied with this summary, so I give him the opportunity to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u118	The Secretary of State says something different than what was just said. I can live with the lecture given by the Secretary of State for my reaction, namely that the utmost effort is being made to see whether it is possible and how it can be done, and that the Chamber, if it really can't, will be informed why it can't, and it will be well-founded. I'm not willing to change my operative part to "or how." That is not what I said, and that is not my intention either. In her previous explanation, for this last answer, the Secretary of State did give a good summary, to which I responded. If the cabinet supports that it really can't do it, I'm sure it isn't, then we in the Chamber are really not going to say that the cabinet has been kept to the impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u119	The motion is being carried out, unless it really isn't possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u120	It's been noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u121	If she's hired, of course. The signature gives reason to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u122	With this explanation I can get out of my way. Then I come to the motion-Christmas c.s. in piece No. 35. As of 2015, the government is invited to provide the Chamber with an annual overview of the number of collective agreements on the employment of people with disabilities and their nature. I shall leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, because that is what I want to do. It's good to have that insight. Then the motion to part No. 36 by Mr Kerstens, Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Schouten and Mr Van Ojik, who invites the government, in consultation with employers, workers and interested parties, to consider ways of encouraging the formation of this broad performance ladder of social enterprise. I leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, provided that I can read it so that it is a private initiative and that it is not really a task for the government itself. We're gonna help, but we're not taking the lead. If I may color the motion in this way, I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u123	The proposers were all nodding, I'm just reporting for the Acts. The Secretary of State is therefore entitled to interpret the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u124	Thank you, then it's obvious. In the motion in part No. 37 Mr Van Weyenberg asked the Cabinet to monitor whether the total number of jobs for the group that we discussed for a long time yesterday was indeed increasing and to inform the Chamber annually. Actually, I promised yesterday. I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber if I may interpret it in such a way that we can do so from 2016. We do not yet know how many people with disabilities now work and can earn more than the statutory minimum wage. In 2015, the data of this group are not yet available. This can only be done from the moment the UWV starts to judge these people and they are part of the target group. In the motion in part No. 39 Ms Schouten asked the government to consider both now and in the review of the tax system the possibilities for rewarding social enterprises. Actually, I promised you that yesterday. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 40 the government is asked to increase the levy when it becomes clear that employers largely decide to pay the levy instead of employing people from the target group. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In my further report, I have already stated that it is more sensible and economical for employers to hire people from the target group instead of paying out of the levy year in, year in. Should it appear over time that employers do not do so, the legislator could choose to increase the levy. I have already written that down in the further report, and so it is support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u125	The Secretary of State says that at that time the Cabinet is considering whether it might want to increase the levy. This motion seems to go a little further and would therefore be withdrawn from the social agreement, because it clearly states that the amount is €5,000 and that there is no increase in the levy. The Secretary of State states that it is still an "or-question" and that the Cabinet is still an independent assessment of that point at the time it was to be discussed. If I interpret it that way, I understand the Secretary of State's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u126	I refer to the motion for a resolution as supporting the policy because we shared it in this way in the further report. There are other requests. We have been asked to double or otherwise increase the amount of €5,000. I said yesterday that I had agreements with the social partners on this. That's not what I'm doing. The way in which it is entrusted to the paper here is in line with what we have written down in the further report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u127	Then it's all clear. The further report makes it clear that it is the question of whether you are going to do so. That is also in line with the social agreement. It could be explained differently. That is why I insist that it is certainly a question of keeping it in line with the social agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u128	Sure. It is always good that it is underlined in the Acts. I come to the amendments. I shall begin with Mrs Karabulut's amendment to item No. 13. I was just talking about it and we talked about it yesterday. This amendment aims to increase the fine from €5,000 to €10,000. I would advise against that amendment. I do not think it is necessary to increase the annual levy in advance. Let us first make a success of the job agreement. If the monitoring shows that employers pay the tax in particular, we can always take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u129	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. The amendment in part No. There's 12 of them. It goes a little further, and then we will see to it that this amendment is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u130	Fine, then I hope that the back benches will also grab a bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u131	Excuse me, but I think this amendment can be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u132	What's it called?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u133	That is the Putters amendment in part No. 12 on the deactivation...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u134	Your name will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u135	Here's to it. That is why the motion has been tabled. The Karabulut amendment to item No. Fourteen I must advise against. It proposes that the revenue from the quota levy should only be earmarked for new jobs. We also exchanged yesterday that the revenue from the levy is needed to compensate for the fact that more expenditure has been incurred because fewer people have been helped to work than the social agreement had calculated. Putting the levy in place for an alternative use creates a gap in the budget. That requires cover and there is no cover. As I explained in my letter today, I have already regulated in the law that the money that may be left can be used for the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u136	With this reasoning, does the Secretary of State not show that she is not doing what she says she is doing with this bill? If there are fewer jobs, you need additional resources to support people to find that job. Does the Secretary of State realize what she's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u137	I realize very well what I'm saying. We agreed on the social agreement that we are committed to these jobs for a reason. If people are able to go to jobs, they earn their own wages for a very large part. This is therefore an indeserver for those who provide benefits, i.e. the municipalities or for the Wajong the Empire. If people are on that job, it'll pay off. If they are not on that job and you have to raise the quota, then you must indeed close the gap in your budget. That makes perfect sense to me, because then people must have benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u138	But then this Secretary of State is primarily about closing the gaps in her budget. If this job agreement with the quota is intended to help people to work but does not succeed, which means that people are still unintentionally in that benefit situation, the Secretary of State says "sorry, my money is gone" and then uses the money to pay the benefits. Then we'll need more money, won't we? I'm reasonably shocked by the Secretary of State's reasoning. It is therefore a matter of cutting back rather than helping people to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u139	We have been talking about this law for so long that I am also a little surprised, I do not want to say that I am shocked because it must be crystal clear. We all believe that people with disabilities should end up in jobs. That's the essence of the law. If that is not possible and we have to take that quota out of the drawer because employers do not make enough jobs, it is as logical as I do not know what you will have to use the revenue from that quota again in order to provide people with benefits. It's as simple as that. We all have the government budget and the municipal budget in our sights too. That's all part of it. So we just assume that the number of jobs will be neatly realized over the 2015 and 2016 annual albums. Fortunately, we also need to provide fewer benefits to people at work. In his amendment to item No. 14 Mr Van Ojik said that the quota levy would increase...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u140	You also assessed and dissuaded that amendment yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u141	I did not recommend this with the same argument that I have just used for Mrs Karabulut's amendment. The Van Weyenberg amendment c.s. in piece No. 22 is about something that the whole discussion was about. That amendment allows people to be counted for the quota if they can earn their own minimum wage, using tools if they have a limitation, and at the same time adding additional jobs, so that these people do not crowd out the original target group and that original target group can just get started according to the job agreement. You will understand that I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. The amendment in part No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has I'll get to that later. The amendment in part No. The aim of Mrs Karabulut's 24 amendments is to broaden the target population register. I would advise against this amendment, because separate agreements have been made for the WIA and because the target group will be widened if all these groups are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u142	When can these people expect the jobs promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u143	That's what we talked about yesterday. I told Mrs Karabulut that the social agreement agreed that employers and employees should make further arrangements. I am referring, indeed, to the group covered by the WIA and the WGA.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u144	Further arrangements must therefore be made. The social agreement is already last year, but this year no jobs have been created. Maybe next year? Or the following year? People wait in suspense when they get the chance to find a job and get out of benefits, which the Secretary of State also wants. Maybe the Secretary of State will be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u145	The social partners are leading the way. However, I have been informed by the public that they really intend to come forward with these proposals in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u146	If I have understood yesterday's debate correctly, the Secretary of State agrees with me that it is important that it is not just about the WIA group and that the agreements are not just about the instruments, but that they are also preferably accompanied by a specific objective. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u147	Yes, but here too, like yesterday, I say that it is on the table of the social partners and that they also have their obligations towards these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u148	I understand that, and the Secretary of State is a lot closer to that table than I am. Does it draw from this or does it make an effort to ensure that this is accompanied by a particular objective? Whether it's the sector plans or other plans, I always like it when I know what we're trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u149	As far as I am concerned, of course, this debate is already very much in the direction of the social partners. I'm just waiting to see how they deal with this sort of thing. In the Schouten amendment to item No. 27 is requested to provide further information on the previously established indications per General Measure of Management. Mrs Schouten and I, and the Chamber, spoke about this yesterday. I have received a motion from Mrs Schouten and Mr Potters in the budget debate which calls on me to give a good insight into the way in which the indication takes shape in the spring, before 1 March. I would very much like to carry out that motion. This could be part of that, too. I would advise against this amendment, because it makes it very unclear who should or should automatically be included in the target group for what reason. I would very much like to carry out that motion and I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u150	Suppose from the motion that we can improve the indication process by using other indications, which have already been made. The Secretary of State will then no longer have a hook in the law to allow that indication. My compassionate attitude is to make the hook anyway, because then the Secretary of State does not have to come up with a legislative amendment if it comes out that we can improve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u151	In carrying out the motion, I will give a clear insight into the way in which the indication can be streamlined. That doesn't necessarily have to be in the law, but can also be in AMvB. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u152	At the moment, there is no AMvB option on this subject. That is precisely what I say in the amendment. I ask the AMvB to indicate which indications can be freely translated for this purpose. Doesn't that give the Secretary of State room for another change of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u153	Yes, but I would like to put the motion to the vote first and only then to see whether there is any need for a change of law or for us to be able to settle matters in a different way. I'd say first things first. The Schouten/Van Weyenberg amendment to item No. 28 refers to the fact that they consider it desirable for the General Measure to determine how and to what the resources of the quota levy are used. This is a bit cumbersome, because of course the aim of Mrs Schouten and Mr Van Weyenberg is clear. I'll admit, if there's any money left, I'll inform the Chamber first. I think that's very neat. I would very much like to discuss this with Mrs Schouten before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u154	Let's do that right now; we're standing here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u155	That's for the votes, too, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u156	I may be a bit of a purist, but if we're making a law here, it has to be right. Now there is no obligation in the law to send an AMvB in which this can be adjusted. There is a possibility: the Secretary of State can send in an AMvB. With this amendment, we want the Secretary of State to send the AMvB, so that we in the Chamber can still have an opinion on this. I believe the Secretary of State on her blue eyes, but I think we should just settle this right in the law. As soon as this law enters into force, there may be another Secretary of State who does not intend to do so. That's why I want us to have that enshrined in the law. That is what this amendment is looking at. It is simply a right of the Chamber to say itself: we want an AMvB to be put forward, and another amendment is about it and have a say in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u157	That's as ready as a cliff and that's the right of the Chamber. I think it's a pretty cumbersome way, but if the Chamber wants to do this, it is. Mrs Schouten also has a point when she says that we should see which cabinet is next. We have already said many times that we hope that this never will never be mentioned, but if it comes up, it will never be before 2017. Ergo: I am just waiting for the Chamber to adopt this amendment. But because I find it cumbersome, I advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u158	I think that's two signals. The Secretary of State says she is waiting to see how the Chamber will react to this when she recognizes the problem that another minister or secretary of state will find something different about this and does not want to send a letter to the Chamber. Then it can also say that it understands that this is what the Chamber wants and that it does not cause major accidents, and can it still leave the judgment to the Chamber? That interpretation of the words of the Secretary of State would seem more justified to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mrs Schouten rightly points out my words. I have said that I promise to do so is also my successor to the right, then first inform the Chamber. However, I have also listened carefully to Mrs Schouten. She says she wants to secure the matter better than this promise alone. That's up to the Chamber, but I find it cumbersome. Formally, I must say that I do not recommend the amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 34 by Mr Van Ojik, on the inclusion in the annual report of matters relating to quotas. I would like to leave that amendment to the House's discretion. It is good in itself for employers to publish how they deal with quota levies. It could be included in the annual social report, but it is no objection to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u160	I asked about the disclosure by the government of all companies that have to pay such a levy. Does the Secretary of State intend to come back to this separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u161	I will come back to that, because I still have a few questions to answer. I'm at...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u162	You now come to the amendment to item No. 41. The amendment in part No. 38 is No. Forty-two.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u163	Is this the amendment tabled by Mr Schouten, Mr Karabulut, Mr Potters and Mr Kerstens? This amendment concerns the involvement of both chambers in the decision-making process on quota activation. This amendment leaves me to judge Chamber, because I understand the wish of the House of Representatives to be involved in the decision-making process on the activation of the quota levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u164	Now Amendment No 1, by Mr Karabulut, to item No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u165	That's the last one. I have already commented on this in the discussion of the amendment to item No. 23. I didn't recommend it then, and I'm sticking to that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u166	You stand by that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u167	I am through the amendments and have a few more questions to answer. Mr Potters asked whether, if Mr Potters' motion on the deactivation of the quota, the so-called switch-out, would be adopted, it might be that the Bqa law would deal with it in the event of any revision. It's always the case that if the switch should be turned on, you're gonna need a bill anyway. Whether this is the case in 2020, 2023 or 2030, a legislative proposal is always required.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u168	That was part of my question, but it is also useful to have that settled for 2017, because it would formally bring the quota law into force and the levy could be imposed. My question is whether this can be included in the first technical revision of the bqa law. When is this review going to happen? Is that the case somewhere in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u169	I'm afraid to prelude entirely. We know that a number of things still need to be worked out. I admit that I will then consider whether you really need to regulate this in this bqa law or whether it should always be implemented in separate legislation. Then I come to Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the register. That's what we talked about yesterday. Is it enough to leave people on the register for two or up to three years if they have started earning the minimum wage on their own? I understand that it is being asked whether I would like to look again at that deadline. I would say that it is good to look closely at this in the review of legislation. That is a very important part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u170	Yes, but the evaluation is far away. Much remains to be done, including with regard to the registers. My question is to involve it in the elaboration. I'm sure we'll talk about that in the Chamber, and then the Secretary of State could tell us if she's staying with the same conclusion as before. That evaluation is a long way away. I would like to discuss it again before the possible entry into force. My question is whether that could be done a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u171	Two to three years is real. I understand the question. I'll see if there's anything I can do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u172	You'll let the Chamber know when you've looked at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u173	Once I've looked, I'll let the Chamber know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u174	When are you going to do that? That's what the Chamber wants to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u175	Let's just say I'll get back to you before the summer. Well, I'm sure I'll have something to share with the room. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about the good initiative Unlimited to work. Fortunately, there are many good initiatives, all of which are being dealt with by me, and so is this one. Thank you for this hand-out. Mr Van Ojik has asked how to discuss the introduction of that quota. The explanatory statement states that we will then sit down with the social partners and the municipalities, to see what the situation is and how to enter the quota. I can say to Mr Van Ojik: take it from me that this never, will never lead to an apology, because that was the question. We will look carefully at exactly how you import that quota. I think you should sit down with the partners in order, but an excuse will not be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u176	The Secretary of State says that it is mainly about how the quota is introduced. I understand. Then I'm reassured. I had the impression that sometimes the consultation would also be about whether the quota is being introduced. I think it would be very wise if this discussion was about how.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u177	It's a cabinet decision. I have just understood that the Chamber also wants a veil on the ministerial arrangement. That's no excuse either. As far as I'm concerned, it's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u178	It's not quite clear to me yet. I believe that the legislative proposal states that it can be introduced after consultation with social partners and municipalities. I understand that the Chamber also wishes to see a suspension procedure. This "may" refers to a number of factors, such as the nature and size of the target group and whether there is sufficient supply. That offer is the most important to me, because it is also indicated by the employers. If there's no offer, I don't think you can enter it either. Mr Van Ojik is trying to tighten it up a bit, but I am trying to stick to what is in the explanatory statement. I'd like the Secretary of State to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u179	Then we end up in like-then situations, which we really can't prelude to. We shouldn't do that at all, and I'm not going to. At the moment Supreme I think it is neat and careful to just sit down with the partners at the table. If the number of jobs is not reached, we know that I can't make it any more beautiful that the stick is really on the agenda. We should not hide that; it is as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u180	I thought Mr Van Ojik said it very sharply: it is about how and not about whether. It shouldn't be some kind of excuse for renegotiation. Mr Potters is trying to stretch it a bit now. The Secretary of State said, "No, it'll be on the agenda." But "the order" means how and not?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u181	That's right. This is a double check, I'll tell you what. The last question I come to was raised during an interrupting debate between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Ojik. They asked if I would publish a list of all the companies that have been given such a quota. Macro, of course, is in the annual monitor. That makes sense. From a micro point of view, if the motion is adopted, it will be included in the annual reports. However, I am not going to put all this on a list very carefully; I do not want to present it in that way. I think that employers simply have to change that nicely with their entrepreneurial councils. Macro, we've got our annual monitor. This brings me to the end of my third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u182	There's another afterburner. An amendment has just been tabled. That is the amendment to item No. 43. This amendment is intended to replace the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 28. It is a technical change. The Secretary of State has previously advised against the amendment, but this may be different from the technical amendment. When I look at the author, she has little hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u183	I kind of like that it's Frapper Toujours. That's just very persistent. What exactly is the technical change, Mr President? Could the author say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u184	The technical amendment to this bill relates to paragraph 2. The AMvB was first mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2. I have now limited that to paragraph 2 because this is also about the part of this law. In other words, the AMvB only needs to be drawn up with regard to the part that deals with the way in which we deal with the tax in this bill: does it go to the benefit or to the target group? The first member of that article saw at the WIA. Since this bill is not about the WIA, it should only apply to the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u185	Well, that's super careful, then. I have come to the end of this debate. It's very technical. I think I should continue to formally discourage it, but in material terms, and let me just do so, let me leave the judgment to the Chamber. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, because I understand that this wish exists in the Chamber. Let me not be too hard on you right now. I think this is a good end to the debate. Once again, I would really like to thank the Members of Parliament, because we have had a long debate on this and it has been about something, namely the people who are dying to work. They can now finally grab that outstretched hand, partly thanks to the members of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u186	I see that Mrs Schouten wishes to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u187	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for pushing ahead for a moment, leaving the judgment to the Chamber. I have another question about the motion tabled yesterday by Mr Potters and Mr Kerstens. There is now an amendment on this part. Will that motion still be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u188	That is a question for Mr Potters. In fact, that is not possible, but for the sake of the completeness of the debate, it might be good if that answer were to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u189	I am indeed thinking very seriously about withdrawing the motion before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u190	You'll let the Registry know?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u191	I'll let the Registry know.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-10.u192	The vote on the motions and amendments tabled and on the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday. I thank all the spokesmen and the Secretary of State and her support for this week's commitment and participation in the debate.
